ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliamentary decisions continue to debate the revised provisions of the Constitution in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure. At today's meeting, which corresponds to the 1st and 2nd thematic section of the Constitutional Review Committee, i.e. relations between Church and State, Religious Freedom, Oath and Individual and Social Rights, Articles 3(1) and 2, 3(3) (repealing of paragraph), 3 (introduction of a interpretative declaration), 13(5), 33(2), 59(1) and 2, 5(2), 21(1) and 3, 21 (addition of paragraph), 22(1), 2, 4 and 25(3) of the Constitution will be discussed. Today the parliamentary representatives, the general rapporteurs, the special speakers and, after them, the special rapporteurs of the first two parties, the new Republic and two from the SYRIZA will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u2	Mr. President, in turn or in circles?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u3	Mr Javarra, as I have said, the order is: general rapporteurs, special speakers, special rapporteurs from both parties. The rest is upright. That is to say, until the fourth speaker is regularly written electronically, and the ladies and gentlemen who are in the Bureau will turn out to be the order of the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u5	Here you go, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I would like to ask whether the two special rapporteurs from the parties will speak successively after each other...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u7	Mr Javarra, it is, as always, one of New Democracy, one of SYRIZA, one of New Democracy, one of SYRIZA. This has been a long time since there was a debate on the constitution. I thought you were talking to the speakers, if they're going to be the first six.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u9	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u10	I have also proposed yesterday in my speech and also in the Conference of Presidents that we should be very careful from today when we begin and enter into regulations. We are attempting to formulate. Even where we agree on it is not always entirely the same. And there is no absolute desire to identify in the formalities. I would like to ask you, after the end of today's sitting, tomorrow's and the following day's sitting, that the Scientific Service of Parliament deliver an opinion. That is to say, the small texts that we shall be tabling. It's not a lot of work. I'm going to read them today. That's what colleagues do. This product should be processed and the next day it should give us an opinion on the wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u11	I understand what you're saying, Mr. Loverdo. I can't give you an answer. I will inform the President of Parliament and pass on your request. I personally find it reasonable and I think it can be done. If he doesn't listen to us now from his office, I'll transfer it to him as soon as I get off the Chair. By the way, the President has just entered. I don't know if he heard it because he just walked in, but the chief will take it to him, and if it can be done, it will happen, Mr. Loverdo. Times are a little changed, so you can have the ability to speak more comfortably. In other words, the rapporteurs and the special speakers have fifteen minutes. The four special rapporteurs have had ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u14	I would like to say on the earlier point that while I fully agree with the spirit of the remark made by my colleague Mr Loverdou, that is to say to try to find convergence, I think it is our responsibility. I therefore think that an effort should be made to do this today, not to move to a next meeting and not to interfere with the Scientific Service of the House, because it is not, in fact, our difference with the law. We have the opportunity to come up with a common wording. Our difference is on the political side. We must not, therefore, transfer this responsibility elsewhere. We must try and get the necessary consensus in this Chamber. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u15	I don't think Mr. Loverdos ruled out what you're saying. Besides, from what I understand, this is the best of us all. It doesn't rule out each other. The Director-General suggests that if we go to Mr Loverd's proposal, it is good that we should be at the end of each day, so that we can be in the short term. In other words, Mr Loverdou's request would be more appropriate to put it down last night by closing down. But, okay, that's a detail. Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the reason you have given me and for the morning gymnastics you have given us, and I think that we can start on very favourable terms with regard to the exercise of parliamentary rights, which, yesterday, I must confess, have failed in this Chamber to have the best possible treatment of all the wings of this House, and indeed on the opening day of the debate, which will continue until Friday. I say this for the following simple and specific reasons. This may be the first time that the Constitution's Review begins to be discussed at the National Representation with the participation of only the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, the majority, and Prime Minister of the country and the absence of all other Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups. This obviously shows that we do not all feel in the same way the importance and importance of the review project, which we are called upon to serve with a democratic sense of responsibility. This is not supported by the fact that, yesterday following from the first to the last colleague, I found out that it was not possible for each speaker to concentrate on the subject of the debate. Because yesterday, as we all know, the subject of the debate was the beginning of the review project, that is, yesterday, arguments had to be exchanged by the speakers concerning the justification of this project in a general context, which, of course, corresponds to what we say 'the general point', which makes it necessary to revise the Constitution with the proposals that have been tabled. On the contrary, the parties have chosen to do an in-depth analysis of those cases, which everyone thought are closer to highlighting their peculiarity and leaving in this debate his print, not on the part of an overall approach to the revision project, but on the one hand, the promotion of a party ego which is not compatible with what I have put forward yesterday on the New Democracy's side as the basis of any parliamentary debate, namely as a joint effort to incorporate thoughts and views under a system of interactive competition, which are designed to give the best form to the texts that have been tabled as revision proposals. This is particularly worrying because, on the part of the Officerial Representation, it is already beginning to appear to be a robbery, which has decided to fight the general position of this review project, and I see it, for example, by insisting on the adoption of more important and useful interpretative statements, in its view, from all these really innovative provisions, recognised by the committee, by common accord of all, that they are a very great and important effort of this House to complete, change, amend and strengthen the 1975 Constitution. I would also like to add to a more general reflection which you will allow me to present here before you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is the state's fundamental law. It is fundamental that this law, because as we say it draws up state power. And drafting state power means subjugating the power of that power under the rule of law. So, to be able to review the Constitution, it has no other character than the one needed to incorporate proposals and draft rules to such an extent, at such importance and at such value that it can give the Constitution of 1975 the power to continue to apply under the present conditions and under the current needs of the state. So in this effort, I don't want the New Democracy to be alone. Unfortunately, yesterday I understood that this inability to incorporate a joint effort to discuss one direction in which compositions could not be a characteristic of this debate in plenary when we all had another parliamentary morale in the debate in committee. I therefore consider it necessary to point out from the outset that we need to give more attention to the interest that needs to be shown so that at the end of this week there have been significant compositions in the direction of at least seven or eight points, which have been demonstrated by the committee as capable of attracting the common, in any case coincidence, of the opinions shared so far by the party groups. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it very important that I begin my position today, starting with a saying, which is a conquest at the same time, for the modern state, a saying by Montesquié, a phrase that changed all its data until the 17th century of understanding of the democratic world about the law. Until then, everyone believed that the law is an order, a law is an order given by the state to the citizen, by the ruler, by the sovereign to society and on the basis of this specific command, on the basis of this particular order, that social life should function. For the first time, then, Montesquié came and literally enlightened the perception we have about the functioning of the law, saying: 'the necessary relations are the laws that result from the nature of the things'. I repeat 'the law is the necessary relationships resulting from the nature of things'. So, here we are obliged to begin with the events and events that have taken place since the last Review so far in the history of this place, to observe them, to record their changes and to draw as conclusions the specific revision needs that the House needs to meet, so that the Constitution continues to function as a Constitutional Charter for that state. This is again an objection to yesterday's image on the part of the Opposition, because everyone did not start from things, but everyone started from the stress they had on an ideological report representing their own 'parents' within the country's political fabric and this specific account, with its specific wording, to post it in the Constitution as if it were a table of political statements, a table of political announcements. No, ladies and gentlemen. We are vindicating democracy, ourselves and our role as representatives of the Greek people if we insist on it. That is why today I am starting the brief statements - because I cannot do any different - on the proposals it has tabled, in particular, by SYRIZA on the revision of Article 3 in the first stage and after the other Articles 21, 25, 23, etc. Let's start with Article 3. We said here, and during the work of the committee, that the attempt to add to the first paragraph of Article 3 of the phrase that says that the state has religious neutrality is an attempt that is done exactly in the spirit I mentioned earlier, not because this is imposed by the nature of the historical things that have been formed over so many centuries since the declaration of independence of the new Greek state to date, but because SYRIZA wants and insists that the provision of Article 3 by a phrase, in a letter, by means of which it should be demonstrated and demonstrated that it has fought and achieved the separation of the State and the Church, what is a permanent ideological account during the post-multiple period not only by SYRIZA but also by PASOK and other political forces. But what we need here is to speak specifically. And this very clear signal that we will give to how the facts have been formulated, I think it will lead us to make the right decision. Does anyone really think that the provision of Article 3 creates a situation of confusion between the institutions of the State and the Church? Because if anyone claims this, they should start from the title of this provision, which is "Relations between Church and State". There is nothing in these provisions at all about this relationship. And you know why? Because these relations are sufficiently constitutionally regulated. And my humility doesn't say that. The whole dance of the authors of Constitutional Law says so, but all of it is the dance of the wise men of politics who have dealt with this issue, except, of course, the so-called "progressive party" that wants to save and well prove to herself and those who have an anti-Christian stand against all of the institution called Christian religion or Christian church, and there is nothing left but just to justify these beliefs, which lack any backing in reality. Ladies and gentlemen, the first argument I would like to make is this: we are not starting to address this issue with the same historical experience that the States of Europe have in the face of the same issue, because in Greece to date and, above all, until the time the power of the new Greek state has been declared - I do not know, Mr President, if I have to ask you for five minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u17	All right, there will be tolerance for all the rapporteurs, but the less we can. It will not only apply to you but to everyone. Here you go. Go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u18	So the independence of the new Greek state along with the church that was a block of forces was opposite the Ecumenical Patriarchate. We did not exist in Greece as viewers and historians of a struggle that the state made against the Church nor the Church against the State, just as it happened in Central Europe, where for hundreds of centuries there were church wars that ended up giving us the form of the so-called 'best-state' in 1648 with the Westphalia Treaty. There, which for the first time was recognised to balance this war between Catholics and protesters on the one hand and on the other hand among church fighters against rulers and kings, what actually led to a balance is to recognize the doctrine that anyone who has the'region', who has the dominance, has the right to impose the religion. It is what we call 'Cuius region eius religio'. It is precisely this treaty that we did not pass, nor did we experience it historically. On the contrary, here we had a Church which, at least in terms of its lot, the people, the small and medium-sized, was the driving force behind the revolution of 1821. And we should know that - and we know that - we all know that! The rupture that took place after the declaration of the new Greek state was a rupture towards the Ecumenical Patriarchate, which, as an institution of the Ottoman Empire, remained in the Ottoman Empire, and in this sense a complete interruption of communication between the Church of Greece and the Ecumenical Patriarchate took place. In 1833, in fact, von Maurer, the Bavarian Regent at the time, with his decree, declared the headache of the Greek Church. Therefore, this self-headage was not declared to the detriment of the Greek state. It was declared against the then Ecumenical Patriarchate. And in this sense until 1850, we had a period of schism and then the conciliator and patriarchal volume of 1850 was given the opportunity to restore, that is, to restore dogmatic complicity and unity with this emblematic phrase on the part of the mother Church "In fact you stayed." It is precisely this historical development of things that records Article 3. Article 3 is not a provision containing a rule of law. It is, as we say, a 'complete provision'. He's a proclamationist. It's descriptive. It's not regulatory. And they couldn't be any different, because from a number of provisions the 1975 Constitution solved all the outstanding issues relating to relations between the Church and the State. And how did he solve it? It solved them, of course, in a way that no one today has the right to speak about deviation from the principle of secularity and the popularity of the Greek state from the fact that there is Article 3 in the Constitution, because, firstly, today's Article 3 in the previous constitutions was Article 1. The first change, therefore, was made in the assessment made by the legislator in the 1975 review that this is not a primary issue. That is why he has incorporated it into Article 3 by Article 1. At the same time, there is no obligation for the President of the Republic to be Christian orthodox anymore, nor is the Holy Synod of the Church of Greece present. Also, proselytism forbidden in Article 13, and until the '75 Constitution', in the Constitution of '52, was forbidden when it was against the Eastern Orthodox Church, it is now forbidden to be at the expense of any of the recognized religions. More important: A confiscation of literature that disseminates news or thoughts or judgments deceptive against any religion recognized now is permitted and not as it was until 1975 when it concerned only the Eastern Orthodox Christian Church.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Javarra, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u20	I shall conclude, Mr President. So what are we talking about? We're talking about religious, well, neutrality of the state. What does it mean, ladies and gentlemen, religious neutrality of the state when Article 13 exists? Article 13 leaves no doubt as to how things should be saved in this direction when there is a declaration of freedom of religious conscience as an inviolable individual right and when it is free for every known religion to have its worship where she wishes and as she wishes it, as well as that expression of religious conscience and worship under the guarantee of the Greek state. So, what religious neutrality are we talking about when it is assumed that none of the relationships that Article 3 restores between the State and the Church are being established at the expense of any other religion? Because I believe that this is the case, that is, from the provision that we are going to adopt, the Constitution will work in such a way that this declaration that the Greek Orthodox Church is the prevailing religion does not have adverse consequences for the freedom of the exercise of religious, adorable manifestations from other religions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Javarra, please have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u22	I'm closing, Mr. President. And of course I don't want to go against you. If you want, I'm stopping now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Javarra, twenty-two minutes you've spoken. Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. We need to make something clear from the outset. We have all said and agreed yesterday that the revision of the Constitution is the highest time of parliamentary procedure, the highest time of politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Catrugale, excuse me, to interrupt you for 15 seconds to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u26	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of forty-four students and students and four of their teachers from the 4th Municipal School of Transition. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u28	But politics, ladies and gentlemen, by definition, means conflicts of interest and ideas. We hear from you a charge of ideoscopy. You are accusing us of rejecting your proposals for ideological reasons, and it seems that you have rejected our proposals for rationalization. You refuse, in short, to give this Chamber the battle of ideas, as if you had no confidence in your ideas. We have heard from Mr Javara that the Constitution comes to respond to problems like any law. That's right. But are problems responses the same color, start with the same ideological starting points and serve the same social interests? No, because otherwise we would have no policy, we would have given the problem to a computer and given us the optimum technical solution. The Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, captures conflicts in social, class, ideological and condensing the correlation of forces that are reflected in their outcome. This has also been done in today's Review. We tabled a number of dozens of proposals that had specific ideological, social content, some dozens of others. We couldn't stand by all this. The fact that you deny the ideological, social, classic, political sign of your proposals is, in fact, as if you were denying the political basis of our debate. It's not something that only Greek Right does. Zezek said: "On the right only the Left has ideology. The Right tells the truth." And Rolan Bart said: "On the right only the Left makes politics. She expresses the nation." But that is not the case, and I think it will be the best thing in this debate on rights. First of all, I should like to say at the outset that it seems to be depreciating against the rights of the conservative party and the fact that the general rapporteur did not mention them at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u29	I didn't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u30	Okay. Then I withdraw that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u31	I would ask you not to understand the fact that I did not have the chance of being left behind. I've got a second one, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u32	I'm sorry, are we gonna do this job?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u33	No, we will, Mr. President. Please note that I did not have time to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u34	No, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u35	As you wish, Mr President. I was challenged and answered. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u36	There will be no interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u37	I'm not interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u38	That's not going to be a vacation like that. You're very welcome. He's been kept for one minute, you'll talk more, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u39	It also results from the objective fact that the proposals relating to rights in our own review proposal are more than double, and in general yours was more inflationary in terms of the number of other provisions. But there are ideological conflicts that have been resolved. The correlation of power has been definitively encrypted, the forces defeated in the conflict have accepted their defeat and these issues are now out of discussion. Such a subject should be, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, a ban on discrimination on grounds of sex and sexual orientation. The fact that you, together with Orban and Salvador, are the only political force in Europe that refuses to include a similar provision in the Constitution, which exists in all international treaties and constitutions, shows precisely the great ideological regression of your party. And that's what must be said and it's not war. After all, you need to explain why this is happening. To lighten the atmosphere, I saw in the last book of Umberto Eko the "Miden Sheet" exactly how the author describes the attitude. He has one of his heroes to say: "I know that we no longer say "arrogan" but "Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-Afro-E. I have nothing against homosexuals and that with arparades it is fine if they sit in their homes." Is that what you think? If you don't believe that, why don't you accept such an obvious provision? And how dare you talk to us about shocks, when on the obvious side of the world what all the world sees to be done, don't you agree? On this issue, therefore, we do not only accuse you of being neo-conservative, as the majority rapporteur-general told me yesterday. This is a reactionary position, because you really want the situation to restart at an earlier political moment since the current juncture. Corresponding antineural ideology shows that your obsession does not establish distinct roles of State and Church and expressly religious neutrality in the Constitution. I will reread what the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs of the New Democracy said in 1975 in the debate on the establishment of the Constitution, Panagiotis Zepos, President of the Academy: "It is theoretically correct to separate Church and State, but under the present conditions and due to the tradition that exists, it is difficult to escape from the system at this time". In 1975, your resignation admitted that segregation was correct, but it was not at the end of the day. You, of course, dare not say now, forty-five years later, that the time has not yet come, but you say something even more regressive, that we do not need no need to regulate the matter. How is that possible? Our suggestion of the distinct roles of Church and State is not the result of any rivalry. On the contrary, the state’s embrace of the Church harms the Church itself. This issue has been specifically analysed in committee. Indeed, in Greece, the Bavarians themselves tried by the decree of 1833 to incorporate the Church as a quasi-state institution and for this reason the demand of distinguished roles of Church and State in Greece has different content than in the rest of Western Europe, where it was essentially a request for the state to become a people's state, to be liberated from the structures of the Catholic Church. The request here is that the Church should no longer fall within a state-centered system, which, for no reason, undermines its self-sufficiency and confuses the limits of public service and religious faith. You were right to refer to the Ecumenical Patriarchate, Mr. Javarra, but when you see the Minutes, you have described the Ottoman institution as an institution of the Ottoman Empire. It's obviously not the Ecumenical Patriarchate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u40	Then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u41	Okay, if it's your opinion. I will close this section, repeating what the infamous teacher of many of us, Dimitris Tsatsos, along with the friend and great intellectual Konstantinos Tsukalas, said: "A free Christian society does not only presuppose an officially called Christian state but is undone by it. Since Greece "Greek Christians" enters in introductorys and emerges into a binding ethnic group, democracy is being destroyed and faith is being altered. Or more simply said, the Christian does not produce it by the state but by Christianity itself. The Christianity that the state produces is false." And it is clear that it is not unnecessary to clarify through the interpretative declaration of religious neutrality, since we have, unfortunately, a number of decisions of the Council of State, which also interprets Article 16 and Article 3 in that they impose a specific method of confessional religious education in schools. I am going through the unity of rights. I think it best reflects our ideological and political differences. You have proposed that Article 106 be revised and incorporated as a constitutional value ‘unfair competition’. Look out, the unadulterated one. What is the characteristic of the European social model, a model that Constantine Karamanlis also followed? That the market is regulated, that the market is not uncontrolled, that competition is not unadulterated, but is limited by provisions relating to social rights, labour and individual law. It is not just a theoretical matter, it is precisely the social rights that have been tried during the crisis. And while the Constitution should respond to this challenge, that is to say, to shield the regulatory system at the highest possible level, you not only wanted to take the necessary lessons from the crisis but basically want to prescribe the essence of the memorandum policies, by irritating the protection of social rights and by establishing, for the first time, a constitutional principle, as would be that of unfavourable competition, which would in fact be counterproductive, against the full establishment of social rights. This section is also a complete response to KINAL's claim that this review was unrealistic and without a specific peak. In fact, it is paradoxical to refer to this by a party, which in terms of Article 22, at least, paragraphs 2, 4 and 5, has been associated with the New Democracy, so that nothing changes, as if we had no crisis and did not have to get any specific institutional responses to the problems that have arisen. The truth is that these social rights regulations are about citizens, about whether they have universal health services, fundamental rights at work, whether they are covered by the State's guarantee but also as a result of free collective bargaining. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there are still some provisions which cannot be accepted by the whole Chamber. How can you not accept equal pay for equal work regardless of age? How is it possible, in other words, to reinstate a minimum wage for young people in the future? This debate, in fact, also highlights its topicality, precisely because the PPC and PPC bills, which provide for the privatisation of natural gas networks, are being discussed at a time when not only most European countries have ensured the public character of these networks, but even countries, such as Germany, which had privatised their network, are re-civilising it because privatisation has failed. So, ladies and gentlemen, on these issues, we are divided into deep ideological and political differences. You must admit them, and if you think your ideas are superior, you must defend them and not blame us for ideology because we are defending our ideas. I shall conclude, Mr President, by the only provision, in which there may be shocks, in the wording of Article 21. We propose that the verb be replaced by one in the wording which prevailed in the committee with the verb 'guarantees' or 'guarantees'. The state must not simply engage but guarantee and guarantee decent living conditions for all. We regard reference to the minimum guaranteed income scheme as a problem for guaranteeing real guarantees which can be controlled by the courts. That is why we are proposing the wording, which in our proposal for Article 21(1) also proposes. In other words, we are proposing to replace the words 'through a minimum guaranteed income system' by the words 'through a system of universal social services and income support', which shows precisely the completeness of all social services as well as the other forms of subsidized forms of social policy. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that there are issues on which we will seek convergence, that there are issues to which there are no such issues, because our differences are great, and that is the essence of political conflict. We must, however, bear in mind that where there can be consensus or where there is a need to serve a more important political asset, as it is - it is not in this section, but I mention it as an example - the defence of the honour of the political world, with the necessary acceptance of the interpretative declaration that does not leave or suspect that we want to cover the responsibilities of policies, this must be done with courage and boldness and a sense of our responsibility and our role in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u42	The reason is the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u43	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, before I enter the points of order that we are discussing today, to express a political position which, as I believe, is, first of all, subject to the rules of logic. When I speak on rights in plenary, I support, in particular in the Revision of the Parliamentary Constitution, the spokesmen in question are checked on the basis of what their party has done when the people have given them a mandate to govern the country. In other words, the government choices, the way of administration and the behaviour of the individual parliamentary majority are taking a picture of the real rights intentions of politicians and parties making proposals to revise individual, political and social rights. For example, what will he propose reliably on the political right to vote on a referendum, who organised the illegal and incorrect referendum in 2015? I begin my report on the rights proposals for the revision of the Constitution with the one which, it seems, will be accepted. It is an addition to Article 21(1) of a subparagraph concerning the socially weak. The wording that we are proposing, which corresponds to what the majority calls'minimum guaranteed income', is as follows: 'The State shall ensure a minimum standard of living for all its citizens in need, as well as their free and unconditional access to social goods'. My suggestion that the members of the Parliament's Scientific Service should process our recommendations on formalities takes its first point. Is our reference to social goods the best possible removal or can better be found in legal language? The above regulation can be seen, ladies and gentlemen, as having, in particular, a festive content - some will say so - but it will be attempted, in other words, by raising this issue in a constitutional context to the institutions of the State, the importance attached by the constitutional legislature to this particular state obligation. I am aware, of course, that excessive celebrity is transposing constitutional provisions from the field of forced labour, of course through conceited and regulated violence, legal arrangements, into that of political declarations or the vow. I feel just here that I need to formulate a position of principle on social rights when these are provided for in the Constitution. Provisions specific to social rights already in existence in the Constitution and the content of which case law has been formulated for decades should not be reviewed. The nature and the nature of social rights, especially with regard to the possibility of relying on them by the governors, obliges us as a review legislator to express ourselves with enthusiasm. That is to say, the demagogic majorities of social rights must not be placed in the constitutional text. This is because the dependence of the satisfaction of social rights on the economic situation in which a country is situated obliges the editorial or revised legislators to draw up the constitutional provisions on social rights with pitiful and not demagogic. We need to understand it well that the more generous the constitutional provisions on social rights are, the more likely life can turn them, as I have said, into political declarations or wishes. When relevant cases, based on well-established constitutional provisions, are brought to the courts, then it is likely that legal arrangements at the top of the sources of law do not constitute the legal basis for accepting the demands of which the governors claim satisfaction and then prove that a provision of constitutional law does not produce legal effects. To reach agreement, I would like to remind you of a phrase by King Ferrari: 'Public subscriptions and rewards are a sacred debt of the country', and obviously, ladies and gentlemen, he did not mean wishes. A few more words about the theory of social rights. And I will refer to my infamous professor Dimitris Chachos who, with his then collaborative and now professor of Constitutional Law Neda Kanellopoulou, wrote about social rights, that freedom through them has entered into a new phase. It is not only through individual rights, where the citizen requires the State to refrain from a sphere that is active or simply through civil rights, where the citizen demands to take part in the decision-making, but also with the demands of social security. It is therefore about the social dimension of freedom, namely the passage from the liberal state to the social state and, ultimately, the social rule of law, the social orientation of power. But the economic crisis has taught us a great deal. In addition, the theories of the social acquis were abolished. This does not mean, however, that the hard core of the social state has been eliminated, that social rights have in practice been abolished. However, those who defended the theories of the social acquis between 2009 and 2014 proved to be inappropriate, in the end, or in the worst case conscious demagogues in the field of law. We must therefore not accept unrecognised experience of both the theory and practice of Constitutional Law, especially when we are in the Chamber of a Review House and draft the texts that the official interpreter of the Constitution will be asked to interpret. Consistent with this position, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting only on the proposals for equal pay for work, water protection as a public good, and on that proposal to safeguard the good of health. Finally, we fully agree with the proposal to revise Article 5 on the individual right of sexual identification, which we have said very clearly and in detail in the committee responsible. But already, speaking of Article 5, I have passed social rights on to individual freedoms and I will remain in this field, to refer to aspects of religious freedom, namely Article 3 of the Constitution. With this issue, ladies and gentlemen, we are automatically driving in relations between the State - Church and the troubled theme of their separation. I believe that the dialogue in question is merely a matter of dialogue. These are parallel monologues, where not one of those chosen, most of the time, hears what another says. Article 3, ladies and gentlemen, contains arrangements for six topics. I was very detailed in the committee responsible, I do not have time to say much. I'll comment on two of them. The first topic regulated by Article 3, which is an element of today's intervention, is the reduction of the Eastern Orthodoxity of the Christ Church as a sovereign. However, in the theory and partly in the case-law, this characterisation is only symbolic and declaratory in so far as the vast majority of citizens in Greece confess to Orthodoxy and is part of the flock of the Church. Religious freedom, however, is not regulated in Article 3. It shall be recognised as individual freedom in Article 13(1) of the Constitution, which shall not be reviewed in accordance with Article 110. By applying this article, I have had the honour of presenting to Parliament Law No.4301/2014, in which the religious communities in Greece were organized and the exercise of their worship was finally protected. This law was passed at a delay of half a century. In addition, instead of many other examples, I would like to mention the amendment that we introduced with Mr Fotis Kouvelis and accepted - in 2005 I think - the then Minister of Education, Mrs Giannakou, so that there is no need for permission from the country-wide metropolitan to erect a temple of another known religion. This protects the religious freedom of Article 13(1) rather than these discussions, which have never made sense, about separation - supposedly - State and Church. Verbalism is not forgiven to anyone who is conscious of what they are discussing. But why do Greek Constitutions, ladies and gentlemen, refer to the prevailing religion and why do they have a preamble with reference to the Holy Trinity? I reply immediately that these wordings emerged from the legacy of Philhellenicism, where Christian religion was also one of the causes of Philhellenicism, but mainly from the role of the Church in national regeneration. They arise, that is, from respect for the Orthodox Church of Christ and not as part of it - of the constitutional and institutional structure. They arise, that is, as an element of a collective emotion, as a life-saving element of a tradition without any other regulatory content. The second point I wish to raise from the six regulated by Article 3 is the provision of paragraph 3 of this article'since the unaltered text of the Bible'. The former Prime Minister trivialised this provision, played it in the Greek Parliament in 2018 and laughed in a way that we understood, that he did not consider the so-called "Evangelicals", i.e. the reactions of his "linguistic" demobilizers, as well as the diligent Deliyannis that resulted in the dead. That memory is carried by the Constitutions! You laugh if you don't know what this is about. And he was laughing. And he laughed in a way of disdaining in relation to a story about murderous events. But what do we propose? We believe that Article 3 needs to be intervened, because we need to make it clear once and for all that certain things, dear and dear, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy must be cleared up. An interpretative statement must be added to Article 3, according to which reference to the prevailing religion does not affect the distinct role of State and Church and is not contrary to Article 13(1). Clean, clean! Furthermore, in this provision that carries a historical memory, paragraph 3 of Article 3, we have no objection to being removed. But it doesn't make any sense to make fun of ourselves when we don't know. So we're serious without demagoging. And those demagogics in this matter must think, because they have refused our proposal to revise Article 16(2)'since religious freedom in education'. In this article, the case law of the Council of State of 2018 and 2019 was established. The hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely positive. I will return to this in my closing session. Finally, we propose that, where the Constitution provides for an oath, it should be provided for divorcingly, that is, politically or religiously, just as it is in the oath of Members. And I wonder why the New Democracy, which in its proposals initially had that prediction, withdrew it. And I ask SYRIZA to leave his own proposal on political oaths only and to associate with what we do in practice. And this concerns all the articles in which the Constitution refers to the oath and has been proposed to revise them. Ladies and gentlemen, my report will be closed with a reference to Article 16(5) on universities, a useful article for his time, which has already been revised. Unfortunately, however, the opportunity was lost under the responsibility of the past majority a few months ago. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, in Cyprus in 2005 with L.1099, as amended in 2011, with L.74-Christophias period, if I am not mistaken, at least the first case - they took the opportunity today in their only legal schools, which as a lawyer, lawyer and professor I know, are studying a thousand hundred Greeks, in classes that are intended to teach the Greek legal system. I have done an extensive analysis in the House before, in its committee, and I do not have time to come back. However, I am content with the statement that non-governmental and non-profit universities are an essential solution to university education. Unfortunately, however, we are losing nine years until the next revision takes place, when everyone is matured, to achieve it. By then, however, we need to find interim solutions. We must find interim solutions that can withstand court control. I will now close with a more general report. In this way I did not speak yesterday, but when I heard the rapporteur for Officerial Reconciliation and a series of Members - because I heard the overwhelming most - prepare a polarisation around the Constitutional Review, we will raise the glove. So we are going to do today - I did not intend to make a more general reference, which emerges as a need - and I repeat it - than the rapporteur said yesterday and what he said in his introduction today. You are going for polarization, for supposedly ideological differences and conflicts, for false differences, as supposedly cuts, between a progressive and a reactive approach to the Constitution's Review, let's say so. Then we, as a Change Movement, get your message. Population you want, polarization you'll have. We therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to take the floor until night to defend religious freedom, to tell us why you did not propose to change Article 16(2) of the Constitution, which states: "Education is a basic task of the state and aims at the moral, spiritual, professional and physical education of the Greeks, the development of national..." - take note now! - "... and religious conscience."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u44	Below.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u45	..."and their format..."... Mr. Philly, I'm going to refer to you in particular. It's still one of those freaks, two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u46	It's critical. Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u47	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u48	It's the crown of the article.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u49	Sure. You know that well, because, after all, you were kicked out for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u50	I'm honored.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u51	Your honor, because you defended your views contrary to hypocrites.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u52	And the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u53	I will conclude by saying: '... and their modulation to free and responsible citizens'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u54	That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u55	What have we, and as a party and I personally, and Vangelis Venizelos and Mr Kamines, George Sotirelis and all of us? We have argued that Article 16(2) obliges the State in its cycle of education to provide students with those knowledge that complete them as people with the knowledge of religious approaches. And I think we don't disagree. Isn't that right? But come on, that the Council of State does not see it that way and that we had decisions in 2018 and 2019 contrary to that spirit, based on Article 16(2). We said one, two, three, four, five in the proposing parliament to include it. After all, there was no risk of switching from Article 16(2) to Article 16(5) ‘an exception to non-public non-profit universities’, which you are afraid of. Article 16(2), if it is proposed to be revised, will be revised and not Article 16(5). First grade of Constitutional Law and Parliament's knowledge, please! Why did you, the defenders of religious freedom and the nominated House, and now in plenary you have not changed your mind? What are you afraid of? Are you kings of hypocrisy? You want to say, but don't do it? You were right to withdraw from the stupid dialogue on separation and it is only the Communist Party that is left to defend this position with honesty. That is right, there have been retreats on your part in the direction of logic. You do not, however, explain why you do not propose the revision of Article 16(2), and we will not, as logically speaking, hear your other speech on Article 3(2) and on Article 3(1), that you enter the field of religious freedom exclusively regulated by Article 16(1).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Loverdo, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u57	Look, you can't fool! And you cannot make fun of yourself when you obeyed Mr. Kammenos and expelled Mr. Friend, who, well or poorly, constitutionally or otherwise, believed his views and suggested that education should move, when he was responsible, within the framework of Article 16(2), as the science of Constitutional Law has interpreted. However, from you others, who have "eat" this resignation, we have not once heard one or one of you take the floor here, in an unbundled process, in the debate on the Revision of the Constitution, and say something about all this. We have said so in our group and it has become clear. There's no party discipline here. We are voting for a constitution here. I repeat: from you who have no party discipline, I imagine - I don't imagine in the Constitution putting - one has not been found to say anything about all this? Not one, not one! And I wonder what you're going to say today when you talk about religious freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u58	The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. In relation to the noisy, usually, controversy that New Democracy and SYRIZA have with each other, what they exchange among themselves on the issue of the relationship between the State and the Church rather like a mushroom. The explanation is simple. Since SYRIZA - as before PASOK - actually joined the position of the New Democracy, neither now have the separation of the Church from the State, we all understand that the margins for fighting each other on this matter are very little. And since yesterday we are constantly listening to the lost opportunities of this review, if a great opportunity is lost, this is no more than the overtime segregation of the State from the Church, one, at the bottom of the scripture, of elementary urban modernisation with Article 3. Because - and this is worth saying here - the demand for this separation was first formulated not ten years ago, not twenty years ago, but just a hundred years ago, in 1918, at the founding conference of the JRC, which was then called TSE. In fact, it was stated in that chapter of its founding declaration entitled 'Programme of present requirements', precisely in order to underline the maturity and necessity of this segregation since then, since 1918. And yet, while the second decade of the 21st century ends, and it is a constant demand for the people's movement and desire for all democratic and progressive people - and it is not only the CCEE, Mr Loverdo, in this request - the separation of the Church from the State remains a lasting historical reluctance, since the urban parties have this possibility - such as the New Democracy and the SYRIZA - still show reluctance and reluctance to do so. And, of course, they bear huge historical responsibilities for this. So what if the request was on the flags of liberalism and the enlightenment of Montesquier and Voltaire already in the 18th century? What if in most countries this division was made by its very bourgeoisie and state since the French Revolution in 1789, but also later in the 19th and 20th century? For the urban parties in our country, New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL, this - the separation of the Church from the State - is still considered to be radicalism and, indeed, exaggerated. Let's take a look at their arguments. The New Democracy, like all the supporters of the present bond of State and Church, invoke history as a basic argument for maintaining this bond. Of course, and it is a fact - historically, indeed - that in earlier historical times, before the Revolution of 1921 and the creation of the Greek state, the Church played an important role in maintaining the Greek language and then contributed to the blossoming of popular culture, which, of course, are the prerequisites for ethnicity, although not just those. But can the recognition of this historical offer also be based on the rights of the Church on the modern state and its administrative and other functions? We say no, you say yes. In the non-separation of the Church from the State, however, SYRIZA's proposal also ends up in the end, since whatever verbal and perceptive acronyms it attempts, it in fact maintains the cohabitation of the State with the Church. And it is characteristic that, in the end, SYRIZA himself also admits this, speaking of distinct roles and of streamlining, at most, the relationships of this couple. See now: On the one hand, SYRIZA proposes the explicit safeguarding of the religious neutrality of the state, which, to some extent, exists today in Article 3 of the Constitution, and on the other, accepts the preservation of the expression "no more prevailing religion". He claims, of course, that this provision 'for a predominant religion' is just an accreditation, as he says, and is not of a regulatory nature. But in view of his own contradiction, he adds an interpretative statement, good - bad, to the same article. We would like to remind you here, that by its very recent decision, on 926 2018, the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State in this very constitutional provision "religious religion", which, of course, recognised as regulatory the Council of State, founded its basic argument to reject as unconstitutional the individual changes that have been attempted in the course of the religious lessons proposed by SYRIZA, namely the then Minister of Education, Mr. Philis. And no matter how you feel about this decision of the Council of State, it is, but it is, and it is, very recent. In the same decision of the Council of State for Religious Affairs, this "fortress" of metaphysics in school, which remains and is maintained, invoked another article, Article 16, in particular paragraph 2 of this article, where the development of religious conscience is expressly mentioned as the purpose of education. So what? The primary nature of education is enshrined in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Delia, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I'd like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the House, fifty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 8th Acharon High School and twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Keep going, Mr. Delis, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u61	This is, of course - and I am talking about paragraph 2 of Article 16 - another provision that is head-on with SYRIZA's proposed addition of the State's religious neutrality, but a provision for which there is little hint from SYRIZA. Here we have ideological results. And maybe, after all, that's the most important thing. The ideological consequences of this reference on the prevailing religion, like the other, in Article 16(2), for religious conscience as a purpose - listen to - listen! - education. However, these provisions of the Constitution, on which it is based to promote irrationalism and metaphysics within school, i.e. in an area of knowledge and discipline, neither SYRIZA nor New Democracy touch them. Otherwise, they speak of the abyss that separate them. The JRC's position is that the State must ensure, without exception, freedom of religious conscience in the context of the wider safeguarding of the freedom of conscience and equal treatment of all, regardless of their beliefs. And that is what is served by the complete separation of Church and State, which also means freedom from an additional mechanism of ideological manipulation or even imposition, sometimes, of religious faith. In the proposal for a law tabled by our party in 2008 in the House for the separation of the Church by the State, on the basis of the Greek Union for Human Rights, we stressed that it is in the interests of the people and the religions themselves, of the People's clergy themselves, to fight for the complete separation of the Church from the State and that, in the end, this separation is not in any way reversed, but in no way the religious beliefs, nor is it against any man's religious conscience and can and must be implemented with full respect and protection of the wage and insurance rights of the clergy. The JRC never separated workers from religious ones. And that is what our people know. On the contrary, he has always stood up with full respect for religious feelings and popular traditions. In the struggles for national independence, for democracy, for social progress against imperialism, against the domestic oligarchy, the communists were found, found and will be with the people, regardless of their religious perceptions. And that is why there is no more historical example from the national popular resistance, where the people's clergy participated massively in the struggle through the lines of the EAM. We believe - by closing this chapter - that the political nature of a series of ceremonies, such as the political marriage or the name of children, must be mandatory without questioning the right of everyone to do so, if they so wish, and religious marriage or baptism. The state, however, must recognise and accept as compulsory the political type, both for name and for marriage. We now go to individual and social rights. It is certainly no coincidence that here, in the articles of the Constitution relating to these rights, there is also that part of the Constitution that has the greatest distance from real life. And this is where the meaningless fight between the New Democracy and SYRIZA is fading. Will you tell me where else, if not on these hollows and hollows, many times, constitutional declarations, two parties are now clearly in a strategic coexistence? Fighting on the shipyard privileges, which they share. the supremacy of Euro-Union law, which they recognize or the separation of States and Church, which together are aborting? In fact, SYRIZA and New Democracy have come to present identical proposals, directly drawn from the pounds of capital. One, SYRIZA, is talking about the minimum decent standard of living for citizens - minimum dignity, as if there were a dosage to dignity - and the other, New Democracy, is talking about the minimum guaranteed income. It is essentially a constitutional guarantee for the management of extreme poverty. In other words, a comprehensive strategy that scans labour and social rights for the sake of capital profitability is being drafted and simply confines itself to some inadequate measures for the management of extreme poverty. This policy itself is creating measures which are also the necessary complement to this strategy. That is why it is being implemented by all parties. Where these policies are implemented minimum - and this is the critical word politically - level of living and income, they act as a pressing tool downwards of popular income. They are, in other words, a mechanism for further reductions in wages and more generally requirements, far below the requirements. They are therefore the other side of the policy of cuts and austerity. At the same time, however, they are also a great self-confidence of the Constitution's own in terms of equality of individual and social rights, but also a great demonstration of the reactivation of a system which, after giving birth to and multiplying poverty and insecurity, then seeks to manage them with the slightest and the flamings of dignity. Really, to have a good question, the cave of dignity that the European Union puts it? 400 euros? But he is not a decent wage. It's the wages of poverty and misery. The same happens in health. The proposal submitted by SYRIZA to the Proposing Parliament, limited solely to ensuring a minimum of once again - again the word'minimum', you see - a level of health care benefits from the State, since, as it suggests, the State should guarantee the right to health and is required - says - to provide universal access to effective health services through the National Health System.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u62	However, the'minimum' does not exist as a word in our proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u63	But you know, Mr Katrugale, there is a word missing and, indeed, the most critical one. The word 'free' is missing. And that's not because you forgot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u64	However, there is no word'minimum'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u65	However, if we want health to be a social asset in fact and not in words, then the JRC's proposal, which says that health is not and cannot be a commodity and demands full safeguard from the Constitution for the provision of welfare services exclusively by the State, but free of charge, of course, of any business activity, is the only one that guarantees health as a social asset. In short, there is a characteristic obsession and a lot of talk about the minimum conditions for the protection of workers, as we have said. But the necessary conditions for working conditions and pay for the workers today in the 21st century! As for social security, with the proposal put forward by SYRIZA, since it was also the majority in the previous parliament, the constitutional safeguarding of remuneration is attempting, not least, but also the siege of the state-run judge, the spearhead for all insurance laws and the dismantling, of course, of whatever social character of insurance, contrary to what the JRC supports, to ensure the sole public character of social security. However, you are still talking about the social state, having as a model the post-war Western European states and presenting them to the quintusy of social justice. But what was this so-called social state? No more than the adjustments made by the civil system at that time due to the demands and in the conditions of rapid capitalist development following the catastrophes of World War II. As for the concessions made to workers in these countries, they were serving the urgent needs of their integration into civil policy under the burden of the new post-war association of power, both with the formation of the socialist system and the great historical social conquests of its countries, as well as, of course, with the rise of the labour and popular movement. With the first difficulties, however, of the system - there around the 1970s with the so-called "petroleum crisis" - and even faster after the overthrows of the socialist countries, all these concessions begin to be revoked and abolished. In our country all this took a violent form of the three successive memos you have all voted on together. And if the so-called "social state" was never such - and in any case, it kept it as much as it needed - imagine what kind of a couch it is, that of the minimum standard of living of today's era presented by SYRIZA and other social-democratic forces. You know, however, that the debate on the issue of individual rights and, in particular, social rights in the Constitution is taking place in a way throughout the entire time when these formal recognitions have been seconded - that is what I mean - by the material and social conditions to meet what is, of course, a question. But these rights, in particular, individual and social rights, know that they cannot be cut off from these material and social conditions, cannot be cut off from social relations and production relations. And those who do this simply maintain and maintain the hypocrisy that the civil constitution pours on rights. You cannot, for example, declare the right to work as this Constitution does, and at the same time defend and serve the anarchy and competition of capitalist production that produces and reproduces unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Delis, slowly you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u67	All that we have said - and I close, Mr President - means that the JRC does not care about improving the constitutional provisions, so that on even better terms a number of rights can be protected and, above all, on better conditions of organising workers' claims? Not at all! We have, of course, not delusional and much more to cultivate delusion among the people, because today there are provisions on the right to work, the right to work, the residence, the strike, however, these references to the Constitution have not prevented unemployment from going up all these years, the popular housing being taxed, confiscated, blackmailed, the strikes coming out at nineteen illegal and abusive. Why, is that so? But because the recognition of these rights in the Constitution finally becomes an empty shirt, when at the same time there is a set of clauses, "loopholes", exceptions, implementing laws and that unfamiliar reference to the Constitution itself, "unless otherwise laid down", reference to the public interest, to public security, to public order, which, in fact, are trampled over by these rights. And, above all, this is because in the Constitution there is the supreme law, the law of every civil constitution, the individual property in the means of production, the exploitation of human beings and the false formal equality that exists in the class societies between the poor, the unemployed, the worker and all those who possess wealth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Delia, I don't have much time, you see the clock, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u69	We are not opposed - and here I am closing down, Mr President, I just need less than half a minute - than to improve the wording in the Constitution to strengthen the protection of people's rights. For this reason, of course, we have also tabled a number of proposals for extending the right to strike, for the constitutional ban on retreat, for extending the strike right to both the security bodies and the judiciary, so that social security can be an exclusive obligation for the State to guarantee - without restrictions - free collective bargaining and contracts in the public and private sectors, so that it can be abolished - not to forget - that the constitutional ban on the permanentisation of contractors. And you've all rejected all of this!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u70	The reason is the special speaker, Konstantinos Hetas, from the Greek Solution. Please close the electronic record. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution is not a purely legislative text, it is much more than that. It is directly linked to the history of Greece, our culture and our religious conscience. And only the reference of the Holy and Omousi and Indivisible Trinity to the preamble to the Constitution is a symbolic demonstration of the inseparable bond of the leading Greek law with the Orthodox Christian faith. Obviously, that is why our Constitution in Article 13 officially protects religious freedom in an absolute manner and leaves no room for revision. There's nothing to do with it, anyway. The Constitution, in fact, refers to Orthodoxy as a dominant religion. It is clear that it characterizes it as such, because most of our country's population are Christian Orthodox. It does not take precedence on the grounds that it is superior or that it is in any way preceded by religious conscience from any other religion. Oh, no! Who, therefore, can question the historic achievements of Orthodoxy in Greece and its decisive role in our liberation struggle? We cannot forget important moments in our history. How do we do it? It cannot be forgotten that the secret school, where the priest was a teacher, was how to maintain our national conscience and identity. So just as in the light of candles then the Greeks were taught the principles of Orthodoxy, so the same teaching continues to take our children over the years. Unfortunately, however - to open up here a parentheses - the teaching of our religion in schools recently has probably been lost in translation. It has been lost in books that are not books but files of students, in lessons in which, as primary children say, the matter is not taught, but they discuss how they feel. While I cannot omit to say that in these manuals - among other things - they have made their appearance up to images of our Virgin Mary in the form of gypsies, Indiana and others. We've seen them, unfortunately, too. I close the parenthesis, noting that the issue of economics in relations between States and the Church is regulated under a rule of law, and that is why it is not included in the Constitution. Today, then, we are talking about a very hot subject, that of State-Church relations, and the disagreements have already begun. I am sure that then there will also be other such issues to which we will again deal with disagreements at the end of the day, and at the end of the day the government majority - as usual - will vote for what it wants. I say, therefore, that these disagreements can easily be resolved by the people themselves by means of an advisory referendum - the Greek citizens themselves with an advisory referendum, I repeat - to finally see what the Greek people, the Greek citizens, think about these very serious issues of national importance. And then, after we see what the Greek people, the Greek citizens, think, should the government's majority decide to do whatever they think and, of course, be judged by this choice. However, the question is whether the political staff - in this case the governing party - want to involve the people in the review process, or simply wants to preserve the Constitution, giving only political staff the right to access it. Unfortunately, I'm afraid the last thing will happen. In any case, however, we must be very careful during any revision. I repeat that every change in our country's top law must be done with enthusiasm, rather than reviewing it, just to show work. Also, it is not just possible to level everything on the argument of neutrality. And I'm explaining. SYRIZA supports the constitutional ratification of the political oath as an expression of the religious neutrality of the state. He considers that, if the religious oath is mandatory, it is contrary to religious freedom. However, ladies and gentlemen, under the pretext of religious neutrality, we cannot attempt to revise other parts of the Constitution, which have a different purpose and regulate - if you like - different objects. For example, the qualities of the President of the Republic, who is the supreme ruler of the Greek state, have nothing to do with the exercise of individual and social rights, but with the exercise of acts of state sovereignty and representation of our country. In this context, therefore, the Greek Solution firmly believes that the President of the Republic should give only religious vow before taking up his duties, because his duties have not only a prestige, but also a supreme responsibility towards the country and the Greeks, which, by definition, only entail religious vows. I hope we all understand in this House that the religious oath of the President of the Republic is not an expression of negative religious freedom. It is an expression of the high sense of responsibility and faith towards the country that the President of the Republic must have. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] However, the same must apply to every Member of the Greek Parliament. The parliamentary status and duty of the MP of the Greek state do not change if the MP is a different religion or heterodus or, of course, the religious oath of heterodus or other religion is inferior. Besides, isn't religious freedom, what I just told you, believe anyone where he wants to be? Isn't that a expression of religious conscience? I would like to focus on individual and social rights, as they are shaped by the crown of the rule of law in our country. In this case of individual and social rights, the Constitution is required to be simple, conscientious and to give the constitutional requirements to the other rules of law. In this way, it universally protects the life, honour and freedom of all those on Greek territory, without any discrimination. On the other hand, if we try to identify the "all those" as SYRIZA says, it would be not only legally wrong, but it would alter the core of the protection of the Constitution. We must not forget that we are talking about the country's top rule of law, which obviously does not exclude anyone. If we add anything, at the same time we'd exclude something. It makes sense. Let us not forget that we are talking about fundamental rights. The wording of the Constitution should therefore be simple and general in order to ensure absolute protection. In the same way, the universal protection of all is guaranteed by the Constitution and the social rights of health and work. The Greek Solution argues that it is in the worker's interest and is in favour of decentralisation of power in all sectors. We are therefore in favour of transferring powers to the hands of the workers concerned with their lives. But that requires consensus and, above all, proper organization. Obviously, this challenge is not only about Greece, but about all the democratic countries in the world. All the politicians on the planet must be more brave when it comes to the organisation and functioning of their states, with the sole aim of strengthening national societies against aggressive globalisation. The conflict is, therefore, between the global uncontrolled economic system, which seeks to eliminate national borders, to free the capital, to move freely on goods and work, and the people who defend the history and tradition of their cultures. So the right is the one fighting for the free movement of capital and goods and the new left, which has become politically unemployed since the collapse of the Eastern bloc, is fighting for the free movement of slave labour and freedom of immigration. Both serve perfectly the objectives of globalisation. Both obey the same bosses of the international economic elite. On the contrary, our ideological proposal, the Greek solution, is precisely in the opposite direction: decentralisation of political power, spreading it within national societies to strengthen them. So, in the dominant ideology of globalisation, of this 'open society', which we so often hear, namely relaxing, passive society and open and uncontrolled borders, we give up the ideology of active, dynamic, strong society, which will ensure the integration of human beings, prosperity and security of its members. Man is completing and living happily in a particular society with which he is linked with common things and not in a global, incoherent mass, in an atmatama of human beings, without some common elements among themselves. This situation requires us to make brave changes to the state's organisation and functioning. It is not easy to decide, but we must stand up to the circumstances. For example, the right to strike is respected, as is all rights. But it cannot outweigh it at the expense of the good of health. Citizens' abuse of rights should not be allowed. We have said this before: we are not proposing a review, just for the eyes of the world, but only for provisions that no longer fulfil their purpose, as they are formulated. We are only proposing substantial interventions. Finally - I mean it, not like the colleagues who said 'closing' and speaking for ten minutes - I would like to point out that the Constitution is the Charter of the legal person of the state. It is not a field of party controversy or party purposes. Our party, the Greek Solution, once again confirms that it will be the guardian of the Constitution, in view of the well-being of the Greek citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u72	The floor is given by the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the relationship between the Greek state and the Eastern Orthodox Church of Greece has a huge historical and legal burden. But by approaching each other, under the visual constitutional texts, the dimensions of a wider conflict-related relationship with a rich past are highlighted. A common feature of the two poles of the couple Church and State is the power and common ground of claim the public space. In order to have a more comprehensive approach to the question of State-Church relations in the Greek area, we must of course not omit Article 13, which defines the Greek state's attitude to other religions. Article 13 establishes the inviolability of the religious faith of each Greek citizen, while at the same time integrating the question of religion into the grid of individual and social rights, linked intrinsically to respect for private life and human dignity and the free development of personality. Each institution, on the basis of Article 13(1), and if there is no discrimination in our Constitution, may enjoy that right. Merra25 remains inexcusable for the religious neutrality of the state, in the sense of equal treatment of all religions and the removal of any other unnecessary reference. And it is worth wondering how the Members themselves who stress the need for a simple, donating and elegant constitutional text have no problem with provisions of an accreditation which have no regulatory content but a historical symbolism. We respect both the Church and its role and the State. That is why we are promoting a proposal which is sincerely and pragmatically defined as a distinction between the State and the Church with clearly distinctive functions. We do so with respect to the history of each and consciously that the conditions have finally matured, to complete a self-evident transition, with respect also to the consciousness of our people, an inseparable religious attitude, which is inextricably linked to its tradition and history. On vows and vows. What exactly is the purpose of vowing on duty? Apart from a formal wording, is it something else that should have a place in the process? Does it create a legal impact or a bindingity? What our political culture offers an oath, beyond food for false dilemmas, as we all know that for everyone the oath doesn't mean anything. Is it burdening everyone the same? Here we have this paradox: the priests themselves invoke their priesthood and do not swear, but we want everyone else to swear. Of course, the political oath of the very same problems is suffering. There is, just to exist, without producing any legal consequence. The enforcement of an oath is not generally necessary either in the state or in the general civil procedures, nor in the oaths of governments and MPs, nor in the courts, nor in the courts. There will be a unilateral reminder on the part of the judge that the individual is obliged to tell the truth, as he knows, with a threat of sanctions if he does not respond. That is our proposal: to remove all references to the Constitution to an oath. I am going to the second section, to the articles on individual and social rights. For the economy of the debate and to earn some time, I take to this House that Merra25 will vote in favour of the previous government's initiatives: First, the amendment of paragraph 3 of Article 21 on the right to universal access to health and the effectiveness of the ESS, the introduction to Article 21 for the public control of basic social goods and their distribution networks, the revision of paragraphs 2 and 4 of Article 22 on the safeguarding of labour rights, the arbitration and the principle of favour to the worker, on collective agreements and negotiations, on minimum wages and on the prohibition of working hours. These proposals also satisfy our established and founding principles and our objectives, since they ultimately guarantee significant rights for citizens and contribute to their respective obligations in the state. As far as Article 25(3) is concerned, we here state that we shall vote'residents' for this reason. We agree with the first part of the proposal to guarantee the principle of leniency, which is lacking by the rigid Greek law and which is afflicting citizens and administration, but we disagree with the second part on the removal of the paragraph on the banning of abuse of the right, because we believe that the citizen should be protected by an explicit constitutional provision against the proving maladministration of the Greek public. In paragraph 1 of Article 21, we are only adopting the first subparagraph of Article 21 on the obligation of the State to provide a decent standard of living for all, as proposed by the previous government. It is a wording that covers us, but not entirely, as we further propose a more comprehensive description, about the protection of more vulnerable groups. The New Democracy's proposal, on the other hand, is simpler, condensing in two sentences the dominant current of modern economic liberalism in the field of social welfare. The state must, he says, provide a minimum guaranteed income, to those in need, that is to say, to the poor. Do you think, until that moment of poverty, the state is being charged with any other obligation? And, vice versa, providing just one income is a sufficient condition to ensure the conditions of decent living? Let alone take into account that the economic weakness situation can occur either because the state has not taken care of it in time to prevent it or - which we have seen more strongly in the years of the crisis - because the state has intervened in a way that will cause it. We therefore stand by the definition of a decent standard of living as a concept broader than the minimum guaranteed income, which needs to be adjusted every year. It must be based on scientific methodology, take into account objective social conditions and exploit dialogue with social actors. Apart from a better illustration of reality, our proposal also broadens participation. Then we are talking about public and equal access to public and social services. We have a constitutional right to effective judicial protection, where social rights are not met, due to loopholes or state indifference. It is important to build up this right, because so we will give a clear answer to an open issue and at the same time strengthen judicial authority, in which we trust, when it works properly and often it works properly. It is the purpose and responsibility of the state to recognise social rights and to provide care for citizens' material living conditions. And when we talk about social rights, we are, above all, talking about vulnerable, unfavourable population groups, elderly, children, unemployed, sick, homeless, poor, socially excluded. Unfortunately, the social protection of these groups is increasingly linked to budgets. The public, as you know, constantly invokes the lack of resources, not to assume the responsibilities of a social state. But, in the end, this inclination of the licensed funds exacerbates state arbitrariness and decomposes the social rule of law, which must protect human value, alleviate inequalities, promote and safeguard the social interest, of course, in conditions of legal certainty. This is where the judge we want to see plays a central role, a judge who effectively and effectively controls the application of social rights in their economic environment, a judge who can restrict the legislator to social policy and indicate to him the reasonable measure of social well-being. Judicial control can and must therefore protect a decent living when parliaments and governments are moving in the opposite directions. The judges combine with their decisions what we could call collective social morality and, at the same time, are the last refuge for the citizen in his demands for effective justice. In the area of social rights, therefore, their conduct and commitment can enhance both the quality of the benefits and the task of the judiciary, which can most easily defend the rule of law, the value of man, personal freedom, participation in economic and social life and social solidarity. Let us note that, for example, decent living does not only concern the judiciary of the Council of State in cases of reductions in wages and pensions. A judge of decent living is the first judge of the political courts, like the Peace Prize, who is daily confronted with the risk of protecting the dignity of living in the trial of cases, in accordance with the law of indebted natural persons or foreclosures and auctions. The case-law of the political courts has so far provided us with valuable judicial decisions, exemplary to the content and regulatory scope of decent living, and this is indeed, without even the need to assist with scientific methods, which give us a sense of security, but are not panacea. We stress at this point that the application of quantitative methods, in particular, of statistics, seeks to define the limits of poverty as a rule rather than decent living. Moving on toward, we extend protection to motherhood and childhood. We are talking about vulnerable social groups, the needy, disabled people and the elderly. We have, by a special way, the state's guarantee mission to disabled people and we have their rights in the workplace. We consider it very appropriate to refer to the international legal framework, which regulates the social protection of people with disabilities, while in application of the provisions of the European Charter and of the Treaty of Lisbon. We call on the constitutionalisation of the rights of the elderly to live a decent and independent life and to participate in cultural and social life. It is precisely because the population is ageing, ladies and gentlemen, that must increase our sensitivity to the rights of our elderly fellow citizens. We want a state of arables and a guarantor of the well-being of the third age. We agree, of course, with the guaranteeing of work equality regardless of age. We are not allowed to rest in the case-law, which says that different treatment, because of age, is another discrimination, because the case law has not saved us from the notorious Ministerial Council act 6/2012 of the Memorandum of Understanding, which reduced the minimum wage by 1/3 and has brought the under-subordinated young people up to twenty-five years old, nor is it allowed to forget that such measures were deemed to be in breach of the European Social Charter. We also propose that unemployment benefit be at least equal to the minimum wage of the unskilled worker. It is well known that we have far the highest unemployment rate in the European Union, and even more than twice the average of the Member States. So it is absolutely essential that the Constitution itself provides for special protection for the unemployed citizens. The unemployment benefit, therefore, which must be at least equal to the minimum wage of the unskilled worker, ensures a decent living. Our proposal also contains an obligation for all dismissals to be adequately justified. It affects social and labour justice, unnecessarily dismissal. How not to feel precarious against the arbitraryness of the employer? How can such a relationship function in terms of good faith when at all levels the strong place is constantly one of the two, namely the employer? We shall now proceed to the proposal for paragraph 5 of Article 22. In general terms, we also agree with SYRIZA's proposal, but we believe that improvements are needed. Clearly, social security is a right, but the state should protect citizens, not only against the risk of insurance, but also of poverty. We improve the term universal coverage, expressly speaking of uninterrupted access to health, welfare and social benefits. We want a socio-economic model of tripartite funding with sources of state, employer and employee. Thus, the public and mutual nature also takes the payment of insurance contributions, not only of pensions and benefits. For Merra25, ladies and gentlemen, guaranteed social rights do not constitute privileges. We're talking about education, health and welfare. We are talking about the so-called 'positive passive rights', that is to say, the very basics which, for decades, neoliberalism has been challenging them increasingly. Social rights are questioned, precisely because they are passive rights and they cost them. They are constantly obscured and their position comes to understand individual needs, which are satisfied to the extent that their body can buy them. That's the meeting point. It was recently heard that water is cheap. In this sense and, unfortunately, many more water, health, education and energy are only market goods. If you have to pay for health, education, and welfare, you have benefits, most of which are private, even in the name of the public. It is what Mr Katrugalos called: clean, unadulterated, effective competition. If you don't have to pay, be careful. So this is the doctrine of the Austrian economics, which are taking place in our times. Of course, positive rights also have their opposite, the so-called 'negative rights', the prohibitions of all kinds, these prohibitions, which the state guarantees through police authorities, courts and the penitentiary system. Here, then, we have a given: positive rights on the one hand are compressed. The international experience, however, shows that when positive rights are compressed, negative ones are made very expensive, precisely because the bans are no longer respected and the cost of the enforcement mechanism is escalating. What does that mean? That the money that the state doesn't spend on care and care for money in the multiple for repression. There is no saving of resources, as the fans of the small state like to say. The line "why should I pay the hospital or the school or the medicine or the allowance of the other person?" It is highly common with neoliberals and is constantly reproduced by variants from the systemic media. These ideals, ladies and gentlemen, have led us to the last point, to the transformation of democracy itself into an oligarchy of the having and the political forces, which serve those who, of course, have market standards in their minds. They are themselves, who tell us that the state must act as a business, and here are the greatest contradictions, but also the ultimate objective of this disastrous ideology. What company would agree to pay subcontractors more precisely when it can meet its own needs cheaper? What company is obliged to donate other businesses in this way? Why do public hospitals and public education need to be replaced by private ones? Since the government is trying to convince us that activities such as education and health are inconsistent are businessly irrational to individuals who claim them? None of this is the case, ladies and gentlemen, except the level of solidarity and collectiveness in the private interest. For some, the well-being of capital must take precedence over the well-being of people. And that's where the ultimate target I referred to before is hidden. It is well known to everyone that problematic companies - business speaking - are more than wise to close down. This is the vision of neoliberalism: a state - business that is heading towards absolute shrinkage, for the benefit of the few. For the rest, nobody cares. But that is not a democracy. Because democracy is not just a citizen, it is above all pluralism and rights protection. Prohibitions - no one denies it - but much more importantly positive action to satisfy and protect social claims. And this positive action goes through specific state guarantees and is in the interests of all citizens, all workers, all vulnerable social groups and the country itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too. Then, with your approval, I will give the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Stylianides, because she has an obligation which cannot be postponed. The special rapporteurs will then be given the floor: Mr Thodoris Rousopoulos from New Democracy, Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou from SYRIZA, Mr Vassilis Economou from New Democracy and Mrs Happiness Ahtsoglou from SYRIZA. Then we will enter the list of fellow Members, who are forty-eight. And whenever the parliamentary representatives want to speak, the Bureau will arrange to intervene. Here, Mr. Stylianides, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honestly, I would like to express my regret at the fact that I in plenary see the enormous hypocrisy of opposition in relations between the State and the Church. She hugs the Church every time and seeks to isolate it immediately after post-election. And the opposition speaks paradoxically about prevailing religion, seeking to identify the church with the state, and it knows very well that the term "dominating religion" is the identity of the church with the people. For the vast majority of the Greeks are near the Church and the Church is near the people. Ladies and gentlemen, in a liquid, unpredictable and rapid changing environment, where globalisation really crushes national identities, shakes state economies and clones cultural models, Europe, despite its great crisis, is called upon to protect its multicultural character, to respect the specificities of its Member States and to transform diversity and national traditions from a conflict point, i.e. a comparative disadvantage of the past, at a meeting point and understanding of cultures, that is to say, a comparative advantage for the future. A tool to achieve this objective, apart from the newly created common European institutional framework, is also the national constitutions. The Greek Constitution of 1975 proves to be resilient because it combines the strictness with its openness. It is strict because it maintains the value code of our culture and the hard core of our democratic culture. One of these articles is Article 13(1), which is not revised. And that's what I'm going to come back to. It is also open, because it leaves room for adaptation to the common legislator and for flexible monitoring of European and international developments, so that our institutional framework is not overcome or broken. The European framework, which is super-legislative, as far as the relationship between State and Church is concerned, is clear and has "speaked". The European Treaty of Amsterdam in Article 11 accepts that the European Union respects and does not prejudice the national status of churches and religious associations or communities in the Member States and respects the status of homologous and philosophical unions. Also, in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the Charter of Fundamental Freedoms, there is nowhere expressly written the abstract concept invoked by the SYRIZA of the neutral state, but it is based on the concept of religious freedom in Article 9, which is broader. In each of the forty-seven members of the great Europe, therefore, the State-Church relationship is regulated in a different way, on the basis of their historical and constitutional tradition, but always in the light of religious freedom, as the European Court of Human Rights interprets it in the well-known Lautsi judgment on the cross in the school rooms of Italy. Even in the United States of America, the most neutral state of religion, it is incomprehensible to ban religious phenomena in public space. You can see, in fact, that the President of the United States is in public before the Bible. The way in which the majority of the SYRIZA Pro-reform House seeks to revise the provisions of Articles 3(1), 2, 3 and to establish the interpretative declaration concerned and 13(5) is a clear ideologicalisation of the review process and not an institutional national policy or a judicial approach. The abstract of the concept of “neutral religious state” leads us rather to a state of religiously indifferent, something which, clearly, can shake the worthy core of our Constitution and remove us from our constitutional and historical root. The most important article that identifies the relations between the State and Church is not Article 3 of the Constitution, which most reflects our historical and constitutional tradition from the first Greek constitutions to this day, but Article 13(1) which is the fundamental provision that I said, in accordance with Article 110(1) of the Constitution, is not revised. The fundamental concept of religious freedom does not only define the relationship between the state and the Orthodox Church, but also the relationship between our state and all other religions, doctrines and religious communities in general. These relations are already successfully regulated and, on the basis of Article 4, which guarantees religious equality. Any ideological re-orientation of Articles 3 and 13 is therefore unstable because it cannot disturb the successful functionality of the last forty-four years. Such a disturbance would be unacceptable and dangerous. In addition to this, ideological political games with Articles 3 and 13 may also touch a sensitive period internationally and a second system of relations, outside the relationship between the Orthodox State - Church and other doctrines. This second system of relations is that of the Greek state, the Greek Orthodox Church and our Ecumenical Patriarchate, as a legal person governed by international law. This relationship has been successfully identified in the past and we must not allow it to be shaken by the Syndicate Volume of 1850 and the Syndicate Act of 1828. To form and consolidate such a grid of relations, which protects our historical roots and cultural identity, respecting the diversity of other doctrines and doing the ultimate religious freedom, which recognizes the great contribution of Orthodoxy to the nation and the democratic functioning of the state, many struggles and incredible sacrifices have been made, both by clergy and by folk. This particular legal status of our Ecumenical Patriarchate, our self-headed Church, Mount Athos, the distinct and definite relationship between State and Church, the absolute respect for other doctrines, we protected it and saved it, even within the European acquis and worked successfully and without any problem at any constitutional level. So if we want to make some adjustments to the new era, then only the joint legislator, who has greater flexibility and speed, is appropriate, but does not touch the worthy core. For these reasons, the New Democracy does not contribute to this ideologically charged, other institutionally unstable review approach to Articles 3 and 13. As far as we are concerned, in general terms, the protection of human rights and individual freedoms in practice, as history shows, is not the result of a mere detailed, exhaustive, positive approach. It is a question of the dominant perception and attitude of those who exercise their own executive, legislative and judicial authority. A detailed and exhaustive imprint in the Constitution often can function restrictively, leaving uncovered fields of freedom. A Constitution that is rigid and at the same time stiff, i.e. not open to developments, can even lead to a break in the institutional framework or actually overcome by modern data. For these reasons, I consider it excessive the interventions in this revision chapter, except perhaps that of establishing a minimum guaranteed income system, which we propose in Article 21(1) of the Constitution. This New Democracy proposal even more shields the family as a foundation for the maintenance and promotion of the nation. After all, this proved to be during the recent economic crisis, when the Greek family was the one that kept our country's society upright. While the state and its social policies collapsed, the grandparents and grandparents with the short pensions continued to study their grandchildren and keep their children up, showing who they are eventually, beyond state-run ideals, the powerful cell of Greek society. The need for decent living, in addition, which we aim to safeguard with our proposal, has already been legally recognised by the Council of State by Decision 668/2012, which refers to the dignified living of the economicly weakest, by Decision 2287/2015 of the Council of State, where it does not only request that every condition be guaranteed for nutrition, clothing, housing, heating and all other things that one needs to survive, but also to ensure that the social life of pensioners and, in any event, the recognition of income as a means of decent living is based on the protection of human value and the principle of social rule of law, as was first recognised by the Federal Court of Germany in its decision on 9-2-2010. In a similar context, Ireland has already made progress in Article 45(2) of its constitution and Romania in Article 47(1). I'm going to the section of Article 22. Our rapporteur, in the House proposed, the current President of Parliament, Mr Tasoulas, called this complex of provisions of Article 22 "A Constitution of Happiness". How is that supposed to be? The proposal for counter-population contains self-evident rights, which in any case are enshrined in both our European and our constitutional framework, such as the age-based prohibition, Article 14 of the ECHR, the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 19 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union, Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, Directive 78/2000, as ratified in 2016 by the Greek Parliament. The SYRIZA proposal also contains ideologically charged wishes, which have been judged nationally and institutionally at European and international level. In particular, the proposal for unilateral recourse by the social partners to arbitration and for limiting its object solely to the definition of basic salary is contrary to the Constitution, Article 22(2) as the Greek Council of State told us by Decision 2307/2014. Internationally speaking, for voluntary negotiations, the International Convention 98 of 1949 of the International Labour Organisation, as ratified by Greece in 1961, and also the Convention 151 and 154 of the International Labour Organisation. Finally, the European Social Charter, as ratified by Article 6, in other words the right to collective bargaining, stresses: 'In order to ensure the effective exercise of the right to collective bargaining, the Contracting Parties undertake, firstly, to promote equal consultation between employers and workers, secondly, to promote, where necessary and appropriate, voluntary negotiation between employers and workers and, thirdly, to promote the establishment and use of appropriate trading and arbitration procedures to regulate labour disputes'. The SYRIZA proposal is therefore completely outside the international and European framework, which also applies and binds our country anyway. The proposal, which relates to Article 22(4), to ban the taking up of services as a measure to deal with the consequences of the strike, is also utopian. In this respect, the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State has expressed a document in its decision of 1623/2012 on the provision of vital services to society as a whole and on the protection of public health. A similar balance has also been retained by the joint legislator in Law No.4325/2015 and Law No. 536/2007. The constitutionalisation of the requirement ban, in the event of prolonged strikes which disrupt social life, may create serious risks in society. This is also acknowledged by the International Labour Organisation at the 81st International Labour Conference, with the Declaration made in Geneva, Switzerland, in 1994. Finally, the realisation of a social security system proposed by SYRIZA in Article 22(5) will cause insurmountable problems if it is faced with the lack of resources, due to unemployment or demographic. The existing provision is sufficiently general and therefore allows the joint legislator to adapt the insurance system to changing economic conditions, equilibriuming, as in most states, between distribution and capitalisation. This is also enshrined in Decision 2180/2004 of the Council of State, which explicitly recognises the broad power of the joint legislature, in the context of the Constitution at all times. And do not forget the recent decisions, which considered the main anti-constitutional provisions of Law4387/2016 to be unconstitutional. Finally, with regard to SYRIZA's proposal to abolish the provision of Article 25(3) on the abuse of a right, it is in direct conflict with the protection of the core of rights, because by definition abusive is the exercise of a right, when it is made for a manifestly different purpose than the one for which it was established. It is also clear that the proposal to repeal is directly conflicting with European and international law, which guarantees it, which, of course, Greece has ratified, such as Article 17 on the prohibition of abuse of the right of the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 54 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights 2009 ‘Miroliubov and other versus Latvia’. Several countries provide for the abuse of a right, even in their constitution, such as Germany in Article 18 of the Grundgesetz. The principle of leniency, which is invoked by the Opposition, is an vague theoretical and legal concept, which will clearly create legal uncertainty. On the other hand, a legally confiscated concept is the principle of proportionality, as set out in Article 25(1) of the Constitution, and has also been defined by the Council of State in Decision 2195/2005 and 3665/2005, as well as by the Court of Justice of the European Union in the judgment ‘Handyside versus United Kingdom’ in 1976. Because we refuse to overload the Constitution by means of provisions which make it stiff and can even disorientate it against our common European code by adding, and not by resolving issues, we refuse to vote on these changes, proposed by SYRIZA, and we insist on a Constitution that is worthwhile but open to European developments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st Pullini High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to tell you that at the very short time you have observed one of the rare procedures and legislative initiatives in this House, which is about every ten years. It is the review of the Greek Constitution. The special rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Thodoris Rousopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. I take the thread from the closure of Mr.Erypidis Stylianides' speech, to remember that already from "National Nicomachia" Aristotle told us that it was just the laws and other laws, which define the civilization, the state, the rules of the state. I am referring to this because, unfortunately, my first point is that so many proposals have been heard - and indeed the number of changes to many articles has also been seen as progressive - which lead us to a very simple conclusion. There are laws, which are enough or laws, which can be implemented or made by this legislature and do not need anything to load it up in the Constitution. The second point is: Another constitution, another International Charter of Rights, because both texts may include provisions on gender equality, the right to education or the way in which two conflicting sides are treated or treated by prisoners of war, but the constitutions, apart from the way in which they regulate the state, include - and here is the real value of my labelling - some particular features of a people or a nation. The Americans, for example, in their constitution have an article that states that the government cannot deprive any Americans of the right to seek happiness. The particular features of a nation are, therefore, that distinguish a constitution from an international treaty on its content. Otherwise, there would probably be no need for constitutions by state, and in a society of internationalist, the rules of the United Nations or the Rome Convention or the universal human rights rules would be enough. The question now is why the changes to the Constitutions are taking place, why are we doing this Review? The main philosophy of a constitutional review is the correction of provisions, which have in practice proved to be problematic. We're talking about the main philosophy and not the only one. In this light, Article 3 to which I shall refer has in no way proved to be problematic. On the contrary, his change in the direction proposed by SYRIZA would create major problems, as the previous rapporteurs have already had the opportunity to mention, as far as relations between the Greek Church and the Ecumenical Patriarchate are concerned, and certainly would - take note of this - seriously internal social upset. And let us ask ourselves, if now that we are coming out of a ten-year economic crisis, we have the luxury of getting into a new split from the outside. I have heard from a colleague from Anti-Population - I respect all my fellow Members, I simply do not mention the names, so that we do not create any impressions of personal conflict - that we are the only country in Europe that has a religion in our Constitution. In addition to what Evripidis Stylianidis said, as soon as you came down from this step, I would like to point out that the party of our colleague in opposition is the only party in the world that does not want non-state universities. As usual, SYRIZA's policy is two metres and two weights I've heard from another colleague of officer's office that Article 3 is a maintenance monument. This has, of course, only been said with negative signalling. At the same time, however, his party remains deeply conservative in its dogmatic advances. In other words, it maintains its ideological root unchanged for two centuries, since its foundations of ideology were written. This maintenance is good, while the maintenance of an article, which is identical to our national identity, is bad maintenance. The previous government majority tried to present the review as progressive and necessary and - I will say hypocritical, as a colleague from the Change Movement said earlier - the change in Article 3, which refers only to relations between the State and the Church, because if he really means neutral religion, he did not raise - and here is the question - the change in the preamble, even though it is unrealistic, even for rhetoric, which he could have mentioned to his people or the world, which he follows. Why has he not asked for the change in Article 16(2), which explicitly stipulates that the development of a religious conscience among the Greeks is also a matter for the Greeks? The answers to both the first and second indents are rather easy, not so, of course, because the preamble, as I said, is not revised, but in particular Article 16(2). Because he was afraid that if Article 16 touched, he would start a long debate on non-state universities, regardless of whether it is in another paragraph of Article 16, because he would have to explain why he would only change one and not move on to the other. This is what she was mostly afraid of. I heard the very interesting speech yesterday - in my opinion - of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. In fact, I had a chance to tell him at Perstylion, where we met later. He has analysed on a solid basis, I must say, for his party the exception, in the light of which SYRIZA sees this constitutional revision. In the exception there's a revolution, I'm not saying. But why do you deny this revolution as an exception, colleagues of the SYRIZA, to Article 3, which expresses something deeper, that is, our national identity? Because the reference to Orthodoxy is entirely related to our nation, both from sociological and historical perspective. With regard to the historical concepts of national identity and national conscience, there is no doubt that, since they consist of cultural characteristics, they are obviously also subject to cultural or historical changes that have taken place in this country for decades or centuries. However, these changes are long and are not imposed by the State. They're made by the people themselves. One of the very simple examples, more typical of all, is what happened to the issues of religion in the Soviet Union. For seventy years he abolished it and at the end, most of the Russians returned to Orthodoxy. I also said to the committee, where I suggested the same subject, that you overlook that the Greek Enlightenment followed its own path, reconciling democratic ideals with the principles of Orthodoxy, thus adapting to the traditions and peculiarities of this people, this society. It was heard in the debate that we - allegedly - considered Korais and King to be ideological, as if the two intellectuals had objected against Orthodoxy. No more inaccurate! On the contrary, because the idiosyncrasy of both intellectuals was receptive to religion, as was the case with most Enlighteners in the West. "Acceptable", notice the word, because then I won't have the right to answer it. I repeat it:'receptive to religion'. Says the King in his Patriot Anthem: "Whoever is, therefore, a good and Orthodox Christian with the chariots in the hand, let him act, as if his Gentile to save." And Korais didn't have the ideas that some people are trying today to fend on him. Korai translates Christian theology. Korais writes the Summary of Sacred History, which is in fact taught in Greek public schools in 1875. But why, ladies and gentlemen, is there so much tension on the subject? My interpretation is how insistents confuse national consciousness, national identity with nationalism of Nazi and fascist regimes, and consider it progressively to break away from the concept of the Nation - State, the reference to Orthodoxy. So, as I told the committee, along with the dirt, the baby is throwing away. In the Greek people, the religious feeling, for historical reasons, is one of the deepest rooted features of his national identity. Our national identity is defined by our language, customs and religion. Article 3 is a living relic of the historical course of the creation of the new Greek state. Already since the Revolutionary Constitution of Epidaurus of 1822 and, before that, the Constitution of the United States of the Ionian Islands in 1817, as well as the first Constitution of the Kingdom of Greece in 1844, the recognition of the prevailing religion is found in the Greek instruments. And don't listen to "Under the state of fear of the foreign conqueror" and so on, because both Ottoman and Venetus and the French and English, the last in the Ionians, who seized them successively, as we all know, the first thing they dealt with was how to approach the Greeks from the perspective of religion. And let anyone who wants to read the letter of Study Typyldos in Morosine about how to approach the Greeks from their religious feelings. The request, therefore, for the removal of this element of the state history of Greece, is equivalent to a request to alter the history of the constitutional text, which symbolically defines elements of our identity, as I have explained in detail. Here you have two measures and two weights, because an interesting proposal has been heard in committee, but because of the articles of the Constitution, which are much more than that, it cannot be done. "For symbolic reasons," said colleague of SYRIZA, "to restore the 114, the last, terminal article of the Constitution, which states that it is up to the patriotism of the Greeks to observe the present". It would indeed be a nice symbolic act. It cannot be done for the reasons I have told you. The symbolism of "1-1-4", however, must be the symbolism of 1821, when those heroes first set the religion in the first Constitution of our country. I shall conclude, Mr President, I do not have time, unfortunately. I refer briefly to Articles 33 and 59. Article 33(2), I would like to say that it cannot be interpreted as being on the table as introducing characteristics of religious faith to the elected President of the Republic, and that is why Article 31 has defined that religious faith is not included in the criteria for selecting the person in the position of the highest state player. Therefore, Article 33.2 must - and can - be interpreted in a way which is in line with both the 13 and the 31st. The same shall apply to the oath of Members referred to in Article 59(1). Paragraph 2 of the same Article, which may apply mutatis mutandis to the President of the Republic, gives an explicit answer as to the other religions or heterodos, who swear in the form of their own religion or doctrine. The same should be considered to be true of both religious or atheists, those who for any conscientious reason do not want to swear, but to assure, invoking their honour. I would remind you that only four months ago this House, in which we all have the honour of being here, saw a large group of Members giving the so-called political oath. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u78	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make one last attempt in this plenary, before we close the debate on the Constitutional Review, to explain what we are trying to explain from the previous House. We are in the face of a major issue, that of the revision of Article 3, concerning relations between the Church and the State. Is this article so important that it needs revision? Of course it's important. On the one hand, the historical history of the State-Church relations is reflected, on the other hand, on the other hand, a painful history and illuminated history of this nation. So discussing and trying to clear up five things is very important. Is SYRIZA's proposal balanced, symbolic and indifferent? He could, in fact, speak of a separation of State-Church. In the historical direction, as we have seen in this House for two years, we see that we still cannot discuss for ourselves. First, neutral religious state, indifferent religious state. Does it hurt a nation's identity? In a liberal constitution - I am not saying to a left or anything like that - the unequivocal statement that the state does not religion, hug, reflect all the course of the two hundred years of this nation, yes or no? Where does it hurt national identity? You know, there is a confusion between what the state is, what national identity is, what national consciousness is. Don't say that, Mr. Russopoulou, don't say it! The state, the liberal European state, is obliged, in the name of popular sovereignty, to include all its citizens. All of them! Even just one, which is different from the others. Well, leave this on national identity. National identity has many elements and the state must be the protector of all these elements. A second point on neutrality. As long as neutral religiousism is not indifferent to religious or anything like this - and here I really wonder, with progressive parties, which are not currently drafted in this respect, while in the past various attempts have been made - in the absence of this explicit and unequivocal wording, it is insinuated by the inexhaustibility of the state, the tolerance of the state and in the light of Article 13. But, in the Enlightenment, Mr. Russopoulou, and in Korai and in all the Enlighteners, the inexperienced religion, which refers to another era, in the 16th century, is not acceptable. The state is neutral religiously, so that it can include all its inhabitants, all its citizens. If this cannot be made clear and unequivocal in our Constitution in 2019, fearing that the national identity of the Greeks will not be affected - if possible! - there really, we are not talking about liberal - I am not talking about radical or revolutionary or anything - and if we are blaming this, indeed, I am raising my hands up. Third point, religion prevailing. Indeed, it remains the wording for historical, identifiable reasons, for all these reasons, which make not the Greek case specific, but the peculiarities that each modern state presents on its way to modernity. And it remains, indeed. Does it need or does it need to be an authentic interpretation of the term, the expression 'predominant religion'? Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Venizelos had also proposed it in the previous Review House. Why is there this need to clarify, to clarify once and for all what it means to 'dominated religion'? Because tons of ink have been spilled on this issue of prevailing religion and why "dominated religion", yes, indeed, is introduced in 1817 into the United Ionian Constitution. I prevailed religion and language, therefore, because there is a historical necessity. Yes, they fear foreign monarchs and fear the imposition of another religion and another language. That, indeed, yes, there is. Again, Korais cries: "Not predominant, because the "predominant" makes the state impliedly inexhaustible and not indifferent religious terms." ‘ Tons of ink have been spilled to date on this issue. Are all these people ideological? But why does this clarification need to be clarified in the "predominant"? Because here we come to important decisions of the Council of State, which have been interpreted in the light of Article 3. And they have been interpreted in the light of Article 3, because, as the last decision, concerning the religious books and the content of religious books, as they had shaped it, Friend and Gavroglou, comes this "religious conscience", the final article "her" and is illuminated in the light of the "predominant religion". And what does the Council of State say? The majority, which is majority by one vote, must not let that happen again, what does it say? She says that this "it" refers to Orthodoxy, because it is the dominant religion. Is this a hint of Article 13 and religious freedoms? Yes or no? Because the minority, which voted against one vote, comes in favour of it, and says that if you use such a use to'religious conscience', then we have nothing to do with the development of religious conscience, we have to do with the imposition of religious conscience. Minority judges it. By enforcing, so we are dealing with a confessional course, which can't be in place today. This is a crucial issue which concerns education. I agree with Mr. Loverdo. Of course, he wanted a review of Article 16(2). And yes, of course, we didn't want to, because we didn't trust him. When we said, Mr Loverdo, in the proposed parliament, what we propose to discuss, yes, because we are against private universities. We explained them yesterday, we've explained them a lot of times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u80	That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u81	But you do not accept, Mr. Loverdos, that goes without saying. In other words, in order to make sense even the abolition of paragraph 2 of Article 16, we have to agree that the neutral state must have been clearly defined and what it means 'predominant religion'. And why am I telling you this? A few days ago, the European Court of Human Rights made a decision in appeal, which Greek citizen made on the issue of making a compulsory statement of his child's unorthodox faith in freedom of religion. The European Court of Justice has vindicated this man. I remember very well that when, at the end of September 2015, I was first in the Ministry of Education and I thought it self-evident to say that it should not be recorded, all the media had risen up, saying that we are abolishing religious faith, that we are against Orthodoxy, etc. This is a deep idea, because this is what this is about, which has been very costly to this place. Why, when was religion used and at the expense of the Church? When? Dark times. Working on religion in the political public space creates a divisive reason and creates dangerous citizens. Where did we see that? We saw it from people on your side the previous period, when they started shouting that we will not be allowed to celebrate Christmas, etc., when you said, Mr. Rusopoule, that it is against Orthodoxy. Who's against Orthodoxy? Is the streamlining of relations between the State and the Church against Orthodoxy or is it a state, which is above its individual, even the most powerful element of national identity? Because I will repeat that a liberal state protects and the slightest element of identity, embraces, is inclusive. Is this an ideal or is this the beginning of the liberal state? But here we see one thing. While you are in favour of the neoliberal state, Article 16, privatisation of education, the important things that really concern, at the core of liberalism, you are against. He is here and the Minister, and I would like to know what he says about these issues, because he is a professor of law. I'll hang up with one thing. This country has paid too much and the triple - religion - family, taking out as dangerous some citizens outside and paying very expensively and the "Greek Christians". We are in a mature moment, respecting the course of this nation, the struggles, the sacrifices and all that it has done, so that we can go in another direction. I am calling here on the people, the MPs and the Members of Parliament from any party, who believe that it deserves this country not to return to a past of dangerous citizens, to vote in favour of these amendments, which have nothing to do with the Patriarchate - Self-Headed Church, nor is it undermining Article 3 with any change, unless we want all these theological reports which have led, I insist, to aristinda sessions and remember when they have taken place. For the oath, I think it is self-evident, since the Church itself, the Gospel, says 'do not swear', that we should not go against it - I say it for you - and say no, the President of the Republic, the MPs etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I ask why my words have been falsified.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u83	Allow me. They did. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou understood, Mr. Russopoulou, that she was mentioned. Anyone who wants to counteract anyone who doesn't have to use his name, because personal problems arise. In this respect, I will give you the floor after the Minister. I also appeal warmly to those who take the floor to contradict what they want for anyone they want, but not with his surname. This creates personal issues, everyone is asking for the floor and it is difficult for the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u84	It's not personal. He's a rapporteur. Instead of saying New Democracy, I said that the rapporteur says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u85	He's a congressman, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Barka, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you don't need any lawyers. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. I was mentioned by the honourable Member, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, and that is why I will only take the floor for one minute to highlight two issues. One issue concerns the actual constitutional dimension of Article 3 of the Constitution. In this respect, I would like to point out that the genuinely neutral state is not, in my opinion, prevented from having the symbolic provision of Article 3 of the Constitution. This is because the major sectors, which have to do with the separation of States and the Church, can and have to a significant extent been carried out by a joint legislative initiative. Therefore, the existence in the Constitution of prevailing religion does not prevent this chapter. The second point concerns the issue of national identity, which was also the basis of the report by Mrs Hoff. I would like to point out that the concept of national identity is not a matter of politics, it is not a matter of political philosophy. It is a very tangible issue. The term 'national constitutional identity' is used by the Court of Justice of the European Union at a time when it wants to highlight the particular idiosyncratic features of each constitutional order, precisely so that it can give the European Union further impetus so that each Member State can operate within its own historic constitutional assembly. These are the classical decisions and the 'MHANIC' - of Greek interest - and the decision 'Wittgenstein' - of Austrian interest in the award of symbols. Therefore, the national constitutional identity is a term which is totally acceptable and which strengthens precisely the diversity of the states of the European Union and does not function under any version of shrinking. Thank you, Mr President, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Roussepoulou, I'll give you a minute to explain what the staff is, except for the mention of your name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u89	It's not about my name's report. After all, I said before that that I honour all my fellow Members and I will not refer to any of my colleagues, so that the impression that this is a personal controversy does not arise. Of course, I don't feel like it's a personal controversy. I have been given a phrase, which I have never said, namely that state rationalisation is against Orthodoxy. There is nowhere in the minutes that phrase has been written out by me. On the contrary, what I said was that the King and the Korai were not against Orthodoxy, and not that the rationalization of the state is against it. Just so we know I never said that phrase. The second point concerns national identity. I referred in detail to the national identity, just to say symbolically what the Minister said earlier, that in Article 3 symbolism is what matters. It does not form the Constitution because it has one or two articles, the national identity. The symbolism, which I respect, of the SYRIZA colleague's proposal for 1-1-4, said that I would like everyone to respect, namely, the New Democracy's proposal to remain as long ago as 200 years in our Constitutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Loverdo, your name has indeed been heard. I repeat, each Member has the right to be seated and judged. But, a warm request, don't refer to names.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u92	Ms. Anagnostopoulos referred to me, but in a political way. I don't have anything to say about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u93	Why do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u94	The procedure followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u95	Tell us what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u96	Just a thought. It is clear that the Conference of Presidents has not decided to take a second step. However, there are issues on which the rapporteurs, at least, of the parties, should be placed, since the general principle governing our operation is that Parliament's Rules of Procedure apply to us, as it regulates the issues of legislative operation. There's a dentist at the end or sometime. We decided here yesterday not to use this instrument to speak to all Members. Today, we will come to rules. In addition, Mr Katrugalos made two thoughts on a proposal that we have made almost common, with which we agree. So we want the Step of the House to capture this agreement. Secondly, the general and special rapporteurs and MPs raise issues. The parties must answer. So, Mr President, will we have a right of seconds, even for three or four minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u97	As you can see, I cannot change the decision of the Conference of Presidents. What I know, however, is that the parliamentary representatives are here. Parliamentary representatives have this role. Of course, I understand your justified position. If you want to take the floor for one or two minutes, you and another rapporteur will not ruin the world. But let us at least finish at this point with the special rapporteurs, who are still Mr Economou from New Democracy and Mrs Ahtsoglou from SYRIZA. At some point, it is not wrong to speak to a rapporteur, because here the debate is how we will build a better outcome. Mr. Economou, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I shall refer to Articles 5, 21, 22 and 25 on social and individual rights. I'll be specific. I will mention the proposal from the New Democracy and a comment - criticism of the proposals from the other parties on these articles. The biggest acquis of the 2001 Revision is, without doubt, Article 25(1), the social state, the epicity of the rules of interpretation of the Constitution in the field of social rights. SYRIZA uses the Revision of the Constitution at the level of social rights for constitutional rhetoric alone. Because everything that is proposed in relation to social rights is already guaranteed by the existing constitution. They are interpreted by the existing constitutional wordings and supplemented or specified in international texts such as the European Social Charter, or by a number of European Union regulations and directives. Constitutional rhetoric, demagogy and constitutional populism risk turning the Constitution into a declaratory text, without a practical reflection, undermining its own legal supremacy. The application of social rights, which constitute benefits at budgetary cost, is subject to the actual condition of budgetary capacity and, in particular, to the country's budgetary strength and substance. When we talk about social rights, we cannot take into account the financial conditions governing the exercise of social rights - see Heliopoulou - and the European Convention on Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights and the European legal order. I'm coming to the articles. In Article 5(2), the existing constitutional provisions fully guarantee the protection of life, honor and freedom, without prejudice to any discrimination either in terms of sex or in terms of identity, ethnicity, religion, age, or even sexual orientation. The revision of Article 5(2) in the proposed form is therefore considered to be surplus and irreversible. In support of this, I refer to Resolution 67/2018 of the Amarusian Court on the right of self-determination. In Article 21(1) - the article on minimum guaranteed income, which is the proposal of the New Democracy - the minimum guaranteed income comes from the principle of a social state and is the ratio of all social rights. SYRIZA's proposal to include the minimum guaranteed income in Article 21, without naming it, unfairly and discrediting the value of social rights, thus confirming today's negative vote by SYRIZA - I would remind you - in voting on the minimum guaranteed income in the Greek Parliament in 2012, as a trap of poverty. The right to the minimum guaranteed income works defenceally, i.e. prevents the reduction of benefits below a limit which would jeopardise the decent living of the individual and his family. It is a targeted social provision, which is granted under income criteria, so that no citizen is found below the poverty line. In other countries, it is paid as a difference between the beneficiary's individual family income and is incorporated in other social protection institutions and in other countries as a certain amount, autonomous benefit, since the beneficiary's income is below the legally determined limits. In France, for example, the income of active solidarity, as it is said, was first established in 2009 and is identified as a supplement to labour income for people with inadequate professional income. But what needs to be stressed is that the minimum guaranteed income must also be accompanied by the process of social reintegration and combating exclusion so that it does not become a lifestyle. It should be transitional in nature and be accompanied by social care and employment promotion measures. Article 21(3): The existing Article 21(3) of the Constitution establishes the obligation of the State for the health of citizens, i.e. the obligation to take positive measures, without implying that the State has a monopoly on the organisation and operation of the provision of health services. See the decision of the Council of State 1374/1997 not to introduce the State Health Service monopoly. With Article 21, in the current official view, the editorial legislator gives the power to the joint legislator to regulate the social right to health protection. The legislator has the obligation of the Constitution to regulate and, in particular, to ensure the protection of the health of citizens and to take specific measures for certain categories of the population, which require increased protection, such as people with disabilities, over-aged people, multi-texts. Here, on behalf of SYRIZA, there is an attempt to ensure that an exclusive state, universal standard of health provision, a work of the Constitution for ideological reasons, is carried out. The Constitution cannot reflect the ideological desire of each majority, but it should be simple, without anachronistic thoughts and ideologies and, of course, it cannot ignore the reality of the functioning of the mixed system of health services, which prevails in Greece. It is clear that for SYRIZA stateers, the role and reason of the public is confused with the state-of-the-art health system, since they cannot understand that the nature of the provider - state or private - cannot alter the public nature of the right to health. Article 21(7): On the basis of the concepts of the State and of the productive forces developed in it, we have on the one hand the theory that the State sets the rules and ensures the control mechanisms, regardless of whether the provider is the State itself or private, while, on the other hand, we have the view of a hydro-headed state, which is trying to successfully control the production and exploitation of goods, without guaranteeing the provision of quality services to citizens. We clearly choose the first version. The hypocritical reason for those who grant parts of the utilities is unbearable demagogic, as they move to constitutional rhetoric, simply mocking some left reflexes, at the same time as, as a government, they were leading to a peculiar left privatization. Reminds L.4336/2015 with FEK A94, Article 7, subparagraph b2 entitled ‘Electricity Regulations’, page 953. It is also timely, because we are also discussing PPC in the Committee on Production and Trade. Article 22(1): The principle of equal treatment at work is a major issue. For this reason, the existing constitutional provision already prohibits any form of unjustified discrimination in respect of remuneration. But the constitutional safeguarding of equal rights and obligations - Article 4(2) of the Constitution - excludes all forms of discrimination. Similar discrimination in the workplace is those associated with origin, political and religious beliefs, disability, etc. The specificity of the prohibition on discrimination, because of age, hides a dangerous surplus, since it essentially targetes the young people who are under-aged up to twenty-five years and over fifty years, with the sole aim of working for the Constitution, for the benefit of party ideas. It limits drastic working relations, such as those of the trainee and the tester, which are now fully recognised at European level. Article 22(2): The possibility of self-regulation of trade union organisations is an important expression of modern democracy, of the right of assembly - Article 12(1) and (3) - of freedom of expression - Article 5(3) - of the free development of personality referred to in Article 5(1). The trade union representatives can unnecessarily regulate labour relations without state interference through free collective bargaining. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the same spirit, moreover, the ECHR moves to Article 11, the European Social Charter in Article 6 and international labour conventions which guarantee the principles of free collective bargaining. The arbitration procedure, as a mechanism for regulating labour relations, cannot in any case replace free collective bargaining through the unilateral recourse of the social partners to it. The current scheme, which must be maintained, is, in our view, the free collective bargaining and the subsidiary arbitral resolution of labour disputes. Article 22(4): The remit of the personal services or, as has been said, the political backing and supply of work within local government, that is, social work, are exceptions to the ban on forced labour. The complete abolition of the requirement in so-called'social and national solidarity' cases means that there are no risks of social cohesion and the state's proper functioning, so that there is a last point of defence in possible emergencies, such as war, confiscation, defence needs of the country, natural disasters and reasons for public health. Article 22(5): Care for the social security of workers in Greece is expressed in this article. It follows from the wording of Article 22(5) that social security is the purpose of the State in which the joint legislature is required to specify the content of the social security right, without any constitutional distinction, between voluntary insurance, based on the agreement of the persons concerned and compulsory insurance, which is based on the law. It is the joint legislator who is obliged to set up a framework of mechanisms to promote the functioning of the social security institution. Furthermore, the existing constitutional legislation does not, in the first place, impose specific restrictions on the way in which legal persons become social security institutions, since such a commitment by the joint legislature does not result either from the spirit of the Constitution or from the general principles deriving from the constitutional provisions, which establish the 'Social State principle', i.e. Article 25. The aim of the constitutional enforcement of the way in which socio-security policy is formulated is a classic ideological and anachronistic concept of controlling social, economic and development processes. Invoking social solidarity and the constitutional system of redistribution when SYRIZA, as a government, wiped out seventy thousand widow's pensions, captures the hypocritical and demagogue speech, which tries to enclose a constitutional formula. Ensuring the sustainability and effectiveness of social security in the light of the international practice of mixed social security systems - redistributive and capitalising - demonstrate the great potential and scope of social security legislation. It is clear that the joint legislator should not be confined by the Constitution to finding a sustainable and long-lasting population insurance coverage. An ideological and timely constitutional forecast like the one proposed by SYRIZA can lead to the so-called ideological cleanliness of the constitutional legislature, but at the same time can lead to an empty insurance fund and a social deadlock of millions of pensioners. Article 25(3): The Constitution, as a supreme defender of individual and social rights, is the exclusive rule, which may prohibit their abuse. The limits between fair use and unfair abuse are very short and arise from the purpose of the constitutional right, which is to be overhauled every time. Furthermore, Article 25(2) positively defines the declining concept of abuse in the sense that the development of a fundamental right, in a way that is incompatible with social progress within the framework of freedom and justice, is a abuse and is prohibited.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u99	Please complete. You've exceeded time a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u100	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u101	Everyone is tolerant, but somewhere we have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u102	I would like your tolerance, Mr President. I'm done. In fact, the concept of misuse of rights does not restrict the right, each time, to be protected, but essentially defines it and demarcates it in its constitutional area. The abolition of the ban on the abuse of the right will open up Halos' abuses for unreasonable use of individual and social rights to the detriment of other constitutional provisions, such as the principle of proportionality, Article 25(1). There is no doubt that the constitutional review is a top parliamentary procedure, where we have the opportunity to heal imperfections and malfunctions. But this top parliamentary procedure was caught in the micro-political distortions and ideological clashes, which the previous parliamentary majority expressed and served. And today, after we missed the opportunity to review antiquated articles like Article 16, they decided to play cheap opposition games...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u103	But close it, Mr. Economou. We're over time close to 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u104	I'm closing, Mr. President. The Constitution is under discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u105	Just a final sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u106	May I finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u107	You're allowed to complete. But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u108	I shall conclude, Mr President. Show some tolerance. SYRIZA uses the Review for his own reasons. It does occasionally and popularly, while its position in the new parliamentary term also confirm how much mistakes Greek society escaped from its election defeat. It is now a historic responsibility for this House and for each of us separately, to give the Greek people a Constitution that is modern, deep democratic and consensual, fair and supportive of our country in the conquest of new horizons within the global and European spheres. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, clearly and with strength, fully defines the quintousity of the new constitution. It says that the new Constitution must be simple, without anachronistic provisions, to ensure the sovereignty and continuity of the state and to shield justice. So I think we're moving on this road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the New Peramos High School, my special constituency. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I must tell you that you are currently following a top-level procedure in the House, which deals with the revision of the Constitution, which is taking place statistically about every ten years. I'm giving the floor now... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Would you like something, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u110	There's no Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u111	Excuse me, but you know there's a Minister. She came out a little bit and she'll be back. If that's what this is about...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u112	It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u113	I saw some reactions that shouldn't exist. Mrs Ahtsoglou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. I will focus on my position on social and labour rights and I would like to start with two main assumptions: The first admission is about social rights themselves. Social rights - and we want this for our part to stress this - are not rights of passive people to benefits from the state. That is not, above all, social rights. They are not rights of passive subjects for transferring payments from the State to them. Social rights are rights of active subjects, they are rights to participate in social, economic and political life, they are rights to collective claims and to participate in the generated wealth. That is why the uterus of social rights is the right to work. This is because the right to work can guarantee this biopolitic level so that people, citizens, the rights providers can collectively participate and claim, but also because the basic expression of the right to work, collective autonomy, collective bargaining, that is to say, are a manifest indication of this participation, of this collective claim and of the involvement of the wealth produced. The Italian Constitution says that very clearly. In Article 1 it says that Italy is a democratic state based on work. And I think that that is clearly what I just said. The second admission, which I believe is important and crucial to enable us to continue the debate, is this: in general terms, in the field of rights - not only social rights - the Constitution is a multi-theistic universe, that is, it has many principles and values of equal formality, which, in practice, are very often conflicting with each other. The judge then intervenes so that he can resolve this real conflict and make this weighting and practical harmonisation of conflicting sizes. A very characteristic example is that the right to work often conflicts - and there have been cases like this often in the courts - with the right to protect the environment, that is, an economic activity which can be regarded as having harmful effects on the environment and at the same time workers want to continue this activity because they are guaranteed the right to work. This is a classic case of practical conflict. It is a conflict, in fact, of values and rights which exist in the Constitution and which have, first and foremost, a level playing field. And there comes the judge to make this weighting and practical harmonisation, in this case, that is to say, demarcate or constrain the extent to which a right is satisfied and allow the other person to be more satisfied. This fact, that may, on a case-by-case basis, be less or more satisfying than that of one or other right, does not mean that we may have the suspension of a social or labour right as a whole. That would be unacceptable constitutional. It is unacceptable constitutionally that the validity of a right should be fully suspended. I want to say this because there is a very long debate - I have heard it from the previous speakers - in particular with regard to social rights, that it is the budgetary conditions that actually define the functioning of a social right. It's not like that. The budgetary conditions may change the degree of satisfaction of a right, but in no case is it permitted to cancel entirely the validity of a right recognised by the Constitution. And this, unfortunately, has happened too many times in the near future, especially in terms of labour rights. In other words, in the second Memorandum in particular, we had a clear violation of rights, which either directly stemming from the Constitution or from the case-law and theory have crystallised them as the content of the Constitution. I say this because I have also heard Mr Loverdo - you said not to mention names, but not sometimes - to say that the provisions which have long been formulated in terms of their content either of case law or of the theory, or of both, should not, therefore, change what SYRIZA proposes in many articles, especially in social rights, are demagogic mafia. In such a climate was the position of the Special Rapporteur of the New Democracy, who said they were constitutional rhetoric, demagogy, populism, etc. The problem is that in the field of social and labour rights, despite the fact that the theory and case law have long been crystallised by their content - so part of Mr Loverdou's position is entirely valid - in practice they have been breached by the ordinary legislator. It therefore appears that we absolutely need a better shield and an update of the content of these provisions. The present version of these rights was, however, not sufficient to shield them from insults by the joint legislator and by the second memorandum, but only shortly after that. So the problem, in my opinion, is not whether this is a matter of malignancies or of a physiological nature or whether it is populism or if it is more words to make a impression, etc. The issue, after all, is what Mr Katrugalos said. The issue here is political choice. And in the field of social and labour rights, that is the issue, that is where, in the clearest terms, the intersectional political approaches we have for the social, economic and labour model we want in this place are manifested. It is therefore a matter of difference in substance and not of wording. If it were a matter of wording, I do not think you would have a problem accepting the proposals we are making. In particular - and the happy thing is that social and employment rights are so clear that a non-legislative can understand exactly what this is about and where the disagreement lies - we propose, for example, Article 22.1 of the Constitution to guarantee an explicit equal pay for equal work regardless of age. This right and theory and case law have been brought together for decades from the present wording of the article. However, this was not enough to prevent the 2012 legislator from coming and establishing the underpaid wage, that is, the exact distinction between wages and age. So it seemed that the Constitution was not sufficient to inhibit such an insult. We say that this ban on discrimination must be clearly guaranteed and the New Democracy seems to reject this proposal. So every citizen thinks he can draw his conclusions. The second question concerns the fixing of minimum wages. Here too, the theory and case law for a long time have said that this is the result of the existing form of article of the Constitution, because it actually says that the state can only intervene in subsidiary terms, when, that is, there is no collective agreement between employers and employees and, in any case, the legislator cannot intervene and can in no way remove material from collective autonomy. And yet, although this had been crystallised for decades both from case law and from theory, in 2012 the Memorandum of Understanding again came to the second memorandum to remove material from collective bargaining, the determinant, the minimum wage, that is to say, to say that this will be determined by law and, indeed, to reduce it very much. We say that it should be explicitly guaranteed that the minimum wage is laid down by national general collective agreements. I can prevent a counter-project, which may be heard - the JRC often says - that 'yes, but SYRIZA made use of this possibility of increasing wages by law'. He didn't bring him to the social partners himself. He raised him by law. Look, I think our position is very reasonable. The state cannot intervene, protect the object from collective bargaining, reduce the wage dramatically and then come, return it and say, 'now negotiate'. If he did that, he would have put a bomb at the bottom of the negotiation to the detriment of the workers. It is the state's duty to restore the level of wages where it was found, i.e. 751, and then, in our view, to return it to free collective bargaining. And that is exactly what we started to implement. This proposal seems to be rejected by the New Democracy and I think that no one can draw its conclusions. The other issue - also very serious - is the principle of more favourable regulation. What does this principle say, which we say should be explicitly enshrined in the Constitution? It says, basically, that sectoral collective agreements will prevail mainly and only when an enterprise provides for better wages and working conditions, then it will prevail. This proposal is rejected by the New Democracy. It is not to be surprised that this is because in 2012 this same principle was affected by the second memorandum and led to an explosion of operational collective agreements and a reduction in wages. The same is happening now, with the development law that the government adopted some time ago. Once again, a direct attack on the principle of more favourable regulation. But there's something more serious. And it's interesting, because we're talking right now and the PPC bill to the committees. It seems, contrary to what Mr Javaras said, that, in other words, New Democracy gives priority to the operational level that is closer to regulating working conditions, that ultimately does not give priority to the operational level, because now PPC is acting by law to abolish the existing business collective agreement, because this operational collective agreement provides for good and increased wages. So, finally, we only like business collective agreements when they reduce wages. We don't like it differently. There is, therefore, a general veil of hypocritical importance here in relation to the issue of labour rights. The last issue in employment concerns the right to unilateral referral to arbitration. There, for a long time, and jurisprudence and theory accepted that this right stems directly from the current constitutional provision. That did not prevent the legislator again from abolishing unilateral referrals to arbitration. The Council of State came and said that the abolition is unconstitutional. He said that the purpose of the Constitution is distorted if the right to unilateral recourse to arbitration is not shielded. It annulled legislative intervention and forced the administration to rehabilitate a little later on with the Government's development law. The right to unilateral referral to arbitration has been effectively reintroduced. What does that look like? This shows that the Constitution on this issue must be clear and that this must be clearly captured, if we want another step, so that we can achieve collective labour agreements. However, I think that, as I said at the outset, we are not in agreement with the wording. The question is that we do not all want this direction in Parliament in regulating labour relations. To say two words about social security. I have heard the new Republic's rapporteur say that SYRIZA's proposal is ideological, short-term, time-consuming, etc. What do we say? As is the case with the social security provision, it has a very weak wording. It only says that the State ensures the social security of workers. And the Council of State has come in and come out of it, it has made an incredible moratorium and has made a series of beginnings, etc. We say first of all that we have a social right. There is no right to social security at the moment. It's got to be settled. Then, the basic principles of social security, which is public security, must be guaranteed - so you can only have social security - and the redistributive character - that is the reason why there must be a social security system, that is to say, to be able to redistribute income, in order to reduce social inequalities - both of which are at a reasonable balance, which is solidarity between generations in social security and rewardability, i.e. there is a reasonable relationship of contributions - benefits. These four things say they should be enshrined in the Constitution. Why does the New Democracy reject these fours? I think it is obvious that here, it is not the case that we want to constitutionalise Law No.4387, the Katorugalou law. We want to enter the Constitution four - five basic principles, which the cancellation court has imperiled as a result of which the result. Why shouldn't they be guaranteed there? What exactly is she worried about? Obviously, this would not allow the privatisation of social security. Definitely! So if our disagreement is there, it must be clearly called rather than hide behind verbal shapes. To close with the decent standard of living. We propose to Article 21, if I am not mistaken, that the State guarantee a universal decent standard of living and that guarantee that it will be carried out either through universal services, whether through income support or in combination with both. What we also say is that I think this anachronistic reference to Article 21.1 should be removed, that the state is caring for the family because it is the basis for the maintenance and promotion of the nation. The state must take care of the family and child because they are special groups of the population that have special needs and need special protection, not because it is the basis of nation reproduction. So this is an important part of our proposal. Global access to basic social goods, at the same time or even a minimum guaranteed income. These proposals - I am saying them briefly because, due to time, I have to close them - we have tabled them. The New Democracy's position, in my opinion, is revealing and I think that two things need to be maintained here: firstly, that the proposals in the field of social rights and labour rights have direct practical consequences for tens of thousands of our fellow citizens. So it is not a theoretical or philosophical debate. And the second is that the New Democracy's refusal to accept these basics I mentioned is also revealing the very specific working, economic and social model that would like to prevail in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u115	I'll give Mr. Nikos Friends the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u116	And then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u117	There's a list. There have been some changes, but the list has been finalized. Then there is Mr. Apostolos, then Mr. Yoyakas, Mr. Maravegias, Mr. Economou Yiannis, etc. The Minister will intervene when he asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u118	Please, Mr President, may I ask you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u119	Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I had contacted the Chair to speak around 13.10. Now is the time, but it doesn't matter. But you're pushing me very back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u121	You want to take the floor right after that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u122	If possible, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u123	You are a parliamentary representative and the parliamentary representatives, when they ask for the floor, take him after the speaker at the Step. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Review has a peculiarity. It started with another majority of the parliament proposed and we have another majority now. This, in my opinion, creates many problems which will lead - I fear - to limiting the value and usefulness of this constitutional revision. And I express my fears on the basis of and the facts of topicality, because the proposed provisions for safeguarding the Constitutional Review are in practice being violated in the name of a 'normality'. The principle of justified dismissal shall be repealed. We have a great deal of repression against young people, we have provisions restricting wage pay, we even have a raid on the guarantee of university asylum. I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work is a very important one. But I shall now confine myself to Article 3 in relations between the Church and the State. I think it is a mature matter to separate State and Church. It also results from polling, and from discussions, it also comes from scientific sessions. It is a mature matter and it does not affect the right of the citizen to religion - that is fully guaranteed - and even to religion to any God who wants or does not want to religion. On the contrary, the separation of State and Church ensures this right, because it does not give precedence to one form of religiousity at the expense of another. It reserves the individual right enshrined in Article 13(1) and at the same time establishes self-evident, other than the faithful and other citizens, what the Gospel would say, the gospel saying, "the Caesar's words Caesar's Caesar and God's things." I believe that this proposal for separation also helps the Church to reconstitute, to reconstruct into conditions of an overall crisis that embraces the Church as an institution, to reconstruct through its own powers, on the basis of its own evangelical meaning and purpose, without state intervention, ensuring legality and without fundamentalist and zealous expressions. This separation of State and Church, which is mature in terms of popular acceptance in my view, is also necessary today for this additional reason, because throughout Europe and the world there is a return to religion by demanding political intervention. It's fundamentalism in all its versions, in all religions, elsewhere less. What else was the story of the identities and the late Christodoulou? A manifestation of the political role of the Church, fundamentalism, zealism, orthodoxism. These phenomena in crisis conditions can multiply and create in the Church - and I do not mean to the simple believers, but to the organized whole of the administration of the Church and, above all, to the high levels of the Church - a concept that they can intervene politically in exchange for material and politics. Besides, why is the problem of church property running all these years? If, then, some do not respect the Church, they are the ones who vote in the name of the Church, and we must stress this, they are the ones who want to control and control the State from the Church, they do not want the separation. So those who insist on the present reality are those who - I repeat - do not respect neither the rights of the citizen nor the moral role of the Church. Let's go to another thing now. Is Orthodoxy an element of national identity? There was, of course, the only one. Anyone else? Do you believe that this matching of national identity with Orthodoxy responds to a historical reality that also survives today in a worldly society? Are we like 1821? Do we forget that the issue of the separation of the Church from the State posed by the Korais and the King in his way? Do we forget that this issue ran the whole story from liberation and then with strong - after the post-population - the request made by all political parties? I say everything, and I know what I'm saying. The late Zepous, professor of law, and then, during the Constitutional Review, Minister of Education, had said that separation of State - Church is more correct, but later. And one more thing to know: The draft Constitution of New Democracy, with Mr Constantino Tsatsos, did not provide for the question of religious conscience in Article 16(2). He didn't see it coming! At that time various forces were raised from the conservative space and this was finally imposed in Article 16(2). They had a reduced national consciousness, those who had a structured perception of the role, quality and quantity in shaping the national conscience of the Church and Orthodoxy? No, of course not! I could also mention Mr Mitsotakis, your Chief of State, who was elected President of the New Democracy, in an interview with Mr Hatzinikolaou, said that he would agree to a revision of Article 3 at the same time as Article 16. And he had a reduced national conscience? Didn't he know what Orthodoxy, Church and the separation of State and Church mean? So leave the vote against ordinary religious citizens! Leave a policy way that undermines politics! On the substance of the matter now, it is dynamic to shape national identity at all times and on the basis of the projections of each time. What's the matter with everyone? Constitutional patriotism. And constitutional patriotism - in my opinion - means that we must separate the role of the State from the role of the Church, separate roles. The preamble in the name of the Holy and Omousi and Indivisible Trinity is an anachronistic remnant of the period when in Europe the monarch reigned God's mercy. He joined as a preamble to the Revolutionary Constitutions for certain reasons. I repeat, however, that this is the basis of this preamble. It did not exist in all the Constitutions of the modern Greek nation and state. What wasn't there for? The Constitution of the Unfounded Hellenic Republic of 1924. It's random, isn't it? Is it accidental that the first Constitution of the Hellenic Republic did not have that preamble? Although it is not a formal part of the Constitution, the preamble acquires an organic relationship when it is read in connection with Article 3 and ensures a transcendent principle, that of religious sovereignty, when Article 1 clearly states that the foundation of the constitution is popular sovereignty. Article 3, the predominant religion: obviously legal science from the days of Saripoul to the present day considers that it is a credential and not a regulatory act, that is to say, it finds that the majority of Greeks believe in Orthodoxy, but it does not even impose at the expense of another religion. That's true. The case law, which is stronger than legal science, unfortunately - this is the reality - is contradictory to the recent decisions of the Council of State on Religious Affairs, which, as you can see - and based on an incorrect interpretation of 16.2, but also of Article 3 - consider that we have an essentially state religion in Greece. It is obvious that it is not possible to accept wording of Article 3, which also says that the prevailing religion is the Eastern Orthodox Church of our Lord Jesus Christ. Is the Constitution Religious? "Our Lord Jesus Christ" says the Constitution. Is the Constitution Religious? We could see more, such as the history of "Evangelicals", another anachronism, the one enshrined in the Constitution. It is, therefore, mature to be abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I believe that the issues of the Ecumenical Patriarchate set out in Article 3 - in fact we recognise it as public international, with a public international personality - can be enshrined in Article 105 that refers to the self-government of Mount Athos. I think it would be a mistake to insist - and, unfortunately, the New Democracy - on a provision which offers nothing for the rights of citizens, nothing for the rich establishment of our national identity, but which enables the Orthodox Church to appear in conditions of rise of fundamentalism throughout Europe and in the world as a Church claiming a political role, a role - intervention in society. And unfortunately the national churches, which are the Orthodox churches, unlike other universal churches, tend to interfere in the formation of national political life.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u125	Close, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u126	I shall conclude, Mr President. Article 6(2). Mr. Loverdos read this article. The protracted reference to the aims of education is, in my view, closed with a koruna: the spread of citizens to free and responsible citizens. It is the koruna of all other formalities. This krone cannot be considered to be of secondary importance. Look, there is the recent ruling of the European Court of Justice that abolishes the circular of Mr. Loverdos on the basis of which one should state that he does not believe in Orthodoxy to get an exception from the lesson of Religiouss. I'd expect a little self-critic here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u127	Close, Mr. Philly. You've exceeded time a lot. I can't show any further tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u128	I'm sorry. I'll be done. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has brought in an awkward proposal for revision. Unfortunately, it has impacted on various endogenous and other conflicts that exist in society and politics. We are not going to solve critical problems with imperfect compromises. I support it in an economy, seeing what is next to me, what is proposed by the largest party, the party of governance. In conclusion, I would like to say that the subject of religious conscience is a critical individual right that is effectively protected only by the separation of the Church - State. It is not possible to challenge these rights with formalities such as the 2015 referendum was a false and illegal referendum. It was a referendum with great participation, with a clear decision, a referendum - an expression of popular sovereignty. We don't get to that level. Please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u130	You have the floor for one minute as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u131	Because I was provoked by Mr. Friend with what he said, I would like to recommend that he invoke Korais, but not to invoke the King. Read the "Social Contract" of Russo, where reference is made to a Greek enlightener who studied both classical works and modern Greek culture on Mount Athos. That was King Ferraeus. If his government wanted to change things, he had time to do it and he didn't. That's why he found himself out of government then. The question for me is that if distinct roles are assured what will be said 'neutral religious state'? Will he say "religiously indifferent state"? All this hypocrisy, trying to prove with these arguments that they support and the interests of the Church is far from reality. What we are saying, we believe it and we apply it. Why didn't they apply what they believe? This is an issue that needs to be raised at the National Representation and I think that Greek citizens can understand that the prevailing religion is about 98% of the Greek people. With no state and no government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u133	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u134	I would ask you, Mr President, not to allow any comments from speakers before me, because otherwise you realise that the speaker will also have to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u135	He was expressing his opinion. There's no personal matter, Mr. Philly. You've taken a lot of time, you've said a lot of things. We're not going to open this process. It will be followed by another colleague of yours who will defend something, other colleagues who are against it. That is why there is dialogue and pluralism in democracy. Mr Kamine, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the speeches of the majority members, I have now formulated the conviction that, apart from Article 21, nothing else is going to change either as regards relations between the State and the Church, on social rights or even paragraph 2 of Article 5 of the Constitution, which concerns the removal of discrimination on the free development of personality on the grounds of sex, gender identity and sexual orientation. All of this is another proof that this Review should normally not be completed, because it is a mess. We had to be interrupted and started right after the beginning. I begin with Article 3 on which SYRIZA invested a great deal of political and ideological capital. Repeatedly, in both the Committee of the Proposed Parliament and the Revision Committee, SYRIZA claimed that the revision of Article 3 is now mature and that it goes hand in hand with modernity. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Really, where was all this progressive study when SYRIZA was cooperating with Panos Kammenos and the ANELs? What newness imposed the dismissal of Nikos Friend from the position of the Minister of Education in 2016 because the Church of Greece disagreed with the then promoted changes in the teaching of Religious? So let's talk in particular. Article 3 captures relations between the Church and State as they have been historically formed. The most special aspects, our general speaker, Andreas Loverdes, analysed. It is, however, unavoidable to say that the prevailing religions have only a historical and credential character. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no constitutional provision that is unregulated. This is exactly the case with the prevailing provision of religion, which develops indirect but decisive influence. See how the Council of State interprets paragraph 2 of Article 16 where religious consciousness is predicted: Just a few weeks ago he interpreted the term "predominant religion" to tell us that in Article 16(2) the editorial legislator introduces a lesson in religious confession. However, SYRIZA was afraid - he was badly afraid because there was no reason - that if we went directly to Article 16(2) we would pave the way for the establishment of private higher education institutions. These are in another paragraph of Article 16. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to agree with the rapporteur of the Grand Representation, who told the committee that it was unacceptable in the 21st century for the Minister of Education to be a judge of objections when the Archbishop is elected or appointed by a presidential decree. Yet here again, SYRIZA is being chased by his practice, because in relations between the State and Church his policy was the complete renunciation of his positions. And because we have heard today in this Chamber a number of barbaric battles for ideas and for the Constitution as a condensation of ideological conflicts, it is important to remember that real ideological battles are given in the field of everyday politics and the consistency of each one to be measured precisely when he is primarily called upon to apply his ideas as a government now, not when he retrospectively and safely determines in the context of a constitutional review, knowing very well that what he says is not going to adopt. Let me make a special reference to the revision of Article 5(2) of the Constitution. The constitutionalisation of sexual self-determination and gender identity is a more special manifestation of the free development of personality enshrined in the first paragraph of Article 5. However, this provision of Article 5(1) contains a restriction that we must avoid. I mean good morals, which are a general clause which can, depending on the context, lead to a complete deterioration of specific personalities, especially those that stimulate the conservative reflexes of society. What is the real meaning of paragraph 2 in Article 5? It is that after you're self-determined under paragraph 1, it is forbidden to discriminate against what you have chosen to be. And the safeguarding of the absolute protection of life, honor and freedom without discrimination of sex, sexual orientation and gender identity is something that is now fully in line with social development, not only because women and men are approaching the status of full equality, but also because the members of the LGBTQ community can now develop their personality more freely than in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the constitutional guarantee of a decent standard of living by guaranteeing the minimum guaranteed income. The minimum guaranteed income can be seen from both a political and a constitutional perspective. In political terms, the minimum guaranteed income can have beneficial effects both on the reduction of the consequences of extreme poverty and on the reintegration of those experiencing social exclusion. In order to have a minimum guaranteed income, however, there is a need for a dynamic economy and a strong social state. Today, however, the Greek economy is just now trying to recover from the effects of the ten-year crisis, while the social state, apart from bringing all the wounds of the Greek public administration, was also used by our political system as a pillar of customerism, mainly through the indiscriminate grant of all kinds of benefits to beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries indiscriminately. The guaranteeing of a decent standard of living is, of course, supported by the minimum guaranteed income. But it's not allowed to get stuck in it. The welfare state does not match income provision, it is much wider. It is primarily linked to the provision of social care services and, indeed, the modern trend is through the local government agencies. As a former mayor I feel the obligation to recall that during the economic crisis the municipalities were in the frontline of the welfare state and the welfare state, as a rule trying to help Greek and foreigners indiscriminately, all those who were facing the range of poverty and social exclusion. And that is just one of the many reasons why I insisted yesterday on one of the three major absentees of this revision, which is local government. The other two are education and public administration. It is worth reminding this House that the constitutional revision of Article 21(1) had been included as a proposal since December 2014, when the Ministry of Labour - Vassilis Kegeroglu will remember that - the national strategic framework for social inclusion, which was an integrated plan aimed at alleviating inequalities, modernising public integration policies and upgrading the cooperation framework of a state, a civil society and a market. The provision of minimum guaranteed income was within the pillars of the national strategy to combat poverty, access to services and the labour market inclusive. We must therefore guarantee the minimum guaranteed income, not under the terms of a poverty trap, but under the conditions of social, economic and political integration of the beneficiaries. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor from SYRIZA. Then there's Mr. Yoyakas, Mr. Maraveyas and Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I will dwell on relations between the State and the Church, a subject which has been at times employing our country for two hundred years, even though the Royal Decree of 1833 has been declared self-headed. And unfortunately, instead of this secondment from the Ecumenical Patriarchate to act as a vehicle for its autonomous operation, the then state administration slowly began to see it and use it as its own mechanism for exercising power and this was followed over the next period. In the modern history of our country, we have many examples of the use of the Church as a political instrument from the "Object" of Venizelos to the junta with the motto "Greek Christians". That's what we proposed to change. You have not accepted it, colleagues of the New Democracy. And since the Constitutional Review has to do with reality, as it is shaped, I will stand on one of the most thorny issues in the relationship between the Church - State that has been dragging away for two hundred years. It is a fortune known as a church made up of three hundred seventy - seven thousand acres of forest, seven hundred three thousand acres of pastures, one hundred thousand acres of agricultural land and a total of three hundred thousand acres. This property with the last agreement in 2018 between the Greek State represented by the then Prime Minister and the Archdiocese the Archbishop attempted to make use of it in order to contribute to the economic operation of the Church, but unfortunately, it was rejected by its hierarchy. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been no disagreement on the division of these areas, but the ownership is there. And in order not to make mistaken estimates, the debate on the pragmatic position of this property begins on the assumption that our country's geographical area includes areas which have been gradually attached to the new Greek state, as is explicitly described in the London Protocol of 1830, the Istanbul Liberation Treaty of 1832 and the later conditions of annexation of the liberated Greek territories. Unfortunately, this was ignored and ignored by the existing monks, when they make claims on earth. No one can question the offer of the monks to the liberation struggle of our country or the hardships suffered by the Ottoman state, but this is not about the differentiation that the only ones are asking for to deal with issues of ownership in these areas. Monasteries were treated in Ottoman domination as an affront to almost institutions, such as mosques. It was not, however, considered during the liberation that the land which was born had to be the subject of a special regulation during the negotiations, as the varnishes were. Kapodistrias and Ottos not only made no distinction in the treatment of the existing four hundred thirty monasteries, but also dissolved those who had power under the age of six, while at the same time taking their property. The remaining hundred and fifty three continued to operate, but in 1834 their assets entered a special administration and management regime in the ecclesiastical fund set up for this purpose. As regards the transitional status of land, from that of the Ottoman state to that of the modern Greek state, this was regulated for all cases by two royal decrees, 1833 and 1836. According to this, if claims were made by the monks of free Greece, they had to produce official Turkish documents, molds, proving the assignment to them by the official Turkish state of the sole quasi-consciousness of such land, which they did not. What did they do next period? The church was divesting, without any agreement with the state, which, for its part, also went on expropriation, but for the adequate needs of restoring the landowners and refugees. This function created a climate of constant disputes between both sides until 1952, which the Constitution authorised the government to expropriate land for the benefit of the deceased and livestock farmers by means of a transitional provision whereby the Greek Orthodox Church and the State concluded an agreement that was ratified by the State by decree, in which the government stated in essence that it was "the other of the constitutional rights referred to in Article 104 of the Constitution, with regard to the expropriation or forced leasing of the Church's property", but on the basis of this agreement the monies would sell up four-fifths of their farms and two-thirds of their pastures and receive 1/3 of their value. Nor has this constitutional arrangement been implemented as a whole. Two important proposals have since been followed, which in the relations between Church and State, set the parameter for the use of immovable church property. The first was the rules of the Tritsis Law, and the second was the recent agreement that did not walk. The Third Law applies, ladies and gentlemen. That's the weird part. And he would find application if the contract signed by the state and the hundred and forty - nine out of fifty - three units were to be implemented. This contract has not been implemented either. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. However, ladies and gentlemen, at some point, and in view of the National Register, everyone will be invited, the only ones will be called, the old, the hundred and fifty three, but also the new ones, to produce titles or official documents, which must be based on claims of all kinds of property. Unfortunately, it has already been two hundred years without doing so. Is the solution only one, and is it the one in the extrajudicial compromise? But that, ladies and gentlemen, requires a real dialogue and a dialogue which will be closed with a decision linked to strong institutional intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u139	The next speaker is Mr Yoyakas Vassiliou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy has come from the outset in the debate on the Revision of the Constitution with a sense of responsibility, respecting the strictness of the Constitution and the strict conditions of the reform process. It is a pity that such an important function of Parliament and of our Parliament has been treated so shortly by the previous parliamentary majority as a exercise of progress, as a demonstration of leftlessness, as a foolishness, which would enjoy the impressions of its low-flight flights as a government. In this sense the previous majority was consumed in proposals that were cut and stitched into their own ideological and political perceptions. He did not accept the opposition proposals, such as those of the New Democracy for the Economic Constitution, Article 16, and the possibility of setting up non-state universities, or Article 24 and protecting the environment. At the same time, she insisted that the guidelines of her own proposals were binding on the next, namely the House today, since she had realised that she would not have the majority to check on the outcome of the review. But also the famous social consultation, which would start months ago, by supervising a government-appointed dialogue committee, has failed on a solemn basis. Neither the citizens were concerned nor any useful conclusions emerged nor appeared to have affected the proposals of the government at the time. Somehow, ladies and gentlemen, the previous parliamentary majority has led to a review of reduced expectations, a review which we all admit does not reflect the various needs of the country, society, the economy and the institutions. Nevertheless, even so, it is a success that the Revision Committee of the Constitution has come up with some important proposals for changes to the Charter of the country, with the dissatisfaction with and with political culture, what SYRIZA tried on yesterday's first day of the debate to dynamize. To facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad, to separate the election of the President of the Republic from the parliamentary elections, to limit parliamentary immunity are some of these changes that make the difference, as important is our proposal to ensure the minimum guaranteed income. It is the explicit reference to a provision that can function as a safety net for those living below the poverty line, but also for those who are seriously faced with the risk of poverty, a reference to a social protection tool, which - I recall - once called a 'poverty trap'. It's a good thing he's finally gonna consent to our proposal. By supporting the minimum guaranteed income, we want to support all those fellow citizens who really need more. At the same time, however, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the challenges of proper and fair implementation of this allowance. We know that the purpose of decent living for all, not for the few and not for the many, is not just a question of a single allowance, that decent living needs a strong private economy, that is to say, a thriving business that will give jobs and support the taxes on quality welfare services. Better social care and more job opportunities are the necessary supplements to come out more than poverty and the minimum guaranteed income is for us the first step towards this. Ladies and gentlemen, I said how SYRIZA wanted to fit various ideological and political positions in the Constitutional Review, to give them a fundamental rule of state formation and functioning. This also attempts with its proposal to clarify that the social security system will be exclusively public and redistributive. He acts as if he does not know and does not accept the problems and weaknesses of our insurance system, as if he did not listen to what the experts have been saying for years, what the Sage Commission said and which the previous government ignored, thereby bringing Mr Katrugalos's monstrous law. Ladies and gentlemen, the State's care for social security is given and unnegotiable. From there on, the joint legislator must continue to decide on the mix and structure of social security benefits, taking into account the circumstances, current and future. After all, society is more mature than ever to embrace a three-pillar social security system, a constitutionally guaranteed system of a public, universal, compulsory and redistributive character, a pillar of insurance protection through occupational insurance funds and a third, an unenforceable retirement pension through savings for individual, private insurance schemes. Societies are ready, because they do not want in future an insurance fund or a hunger pension. Of course, it does not want an insurance company that will be a bomb for the country's economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall close my position with a reference to Article 3 on relations between the Church and the State. SYRIZA's proposal for a clause in religious neutrality is inappropriate. There is Article 13 of the Constitution that protects the religious freedom of all citizens, regardless of what they believe. In fact, the concept of religious freedom is liberal, it is progressive, because it means not just tolerance to any religion, but that the state is taking initiatives so that all its citizens can exercise their religious duties unreservedly, since they certainly do not violate the laws. It is also important to remember that recognition of the prevailing religion is part of the constitutional history of our nation, part of the formation of the newest Greek state. Much more with reference to the religion of the Eastern Orthodox Church of Christ, it is recognized as a key element along with the language of our national identity. And with this it agrees with the vast majority of the Greeks who have understood that the changes to the core of our country's charter are a very serious issue to make a game of impression in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u141	Mr Maravegias Konstantinos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the process of reviewing the constitution of each parliamentary democracy must be characterised by two elements. First of all, from trying to find as many common sites as possible between the parliamentary parties. And, if possible, from reaching a cross-party consensus on fundamentals. The second element is precisely the definition of fundamental concepts and the understanding of what the major issues are and what the minor issues involved in a Constitution are. The Constitution is not a religious book to contain only unaltered truths, nor is it, of course, an ideological declaration written for propaganda. I say this with respect to the ideological reflections of SYRIZA colleagues, to highlight something essential, entirely practical and not at all, but at all, theoretical: The Constitution must, apart from the field of great consensus, as I said before, reflect social and national reality. So it cannot be an ideological removal, a construction of our minds or an exhibition of ideas, which do not reflect the beliefs of the great majority of the Greek people. Such a characteristic example of a review of the law, unfortunately, is SYRIZA's proposal to change Article 3 on relations between Church and State. SYRIZA has progressed alone, far from society, in the ideological invention of the neutral state. In other words, with the delay of a few centuries, he discovers the "état laique" of the French Revolution, which, in order not to show its huge time distance from the 21st century, calls it "neutral religion". Here, one could make a lot of easy criticism, because this SYRIZA attempt is essentially in the direction of isolation of the Church from the State. We could, for example, say that this proposal conceals anti-climulation and an attempt to create a secular state. But we know very well that this is not the case. And we know that, because there are all four and a half years of SYRIZA's government service. I recall his attempt to embrace every religious principle, from the Orthodox church to the mufts of Thrace. In his theoretical policy, therefore, it was only in his attempt to degrade the teaching of Religiouss in schools and nothing more. So we have to ask ourselves what SYRIZA really wants to do with religions, from the moment that even he admits Orthodoxy as a prevailing faith in our country? What is all this constitutional verbatimism and revolutionary "neutralism" to create a neutral non-orthodox state? Does it make any sense to all this ideological "triscence in the skull"? The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is simple. This phenomenon is not new and we have seen it before in the period of governance by the SYRIZANELs, but also in an unsuspecting time when various incredible "wonders" were taking place, starring even the former Prime Minister himself. According to him, SYRIZA's ignorant president, the transparent preacher of dialectic materialism, the man who preaches the neutral religion was found on Mount Athos and asked the monks to stay ten minutes alone with the image of Austin Esté.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u143	What do you care, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u144	He didn't ask you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, what are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u146	Don't interrupt, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u147	Please, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u148	Keep going, Mr. Maraveya.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u149	I personally believe in Christ, so I am not allowed to call such a hypocritical behaviour. In any case, however, the Communist Party has already done so on behalf of all of us, who as guardian of the other faith spoke first of the final persecution, opportunistic, as it features in the Marxist peculiar, turn of SYRIZA to anything that suits him. So it's just not a question of confidence, because that's not as much as it is about looking. It's not a political choice against religiouss. The neutral state of SYRIZA is very simply an advertising line. It is a label of a product without content, because SYRIZA with its constitutional activism fakes nothing but an empty box at a left audience. Speech without conviction or, as our wise people would say, they attempt to be with the policeman and the policeman, "with the bulb on one hand and the red flag on the other." All the rest for so-called secular state, neutral religion, and other powerfully related are for consumption by a portion of his fans. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the SYRIZA's review philosophy and it is behind the proposals. He can do everything freely, without constitutional or other commitments and, indeed, very often he has done exactly the opposite of what he has declared. The most characteristic example is that of the SYRIZA proposals for the revision and Article 22 on pensions. So here we have SYRIZA trying to protect us from himself. The party that took the lead in the bleeding of pensioners by reducing the main and supplementary pensions of the Katrugalo Law and by voting for new imaginable detentions from all pensions, with the non-recalculation or incorrect all the way down, of course, this same SYRIZA comes with paragraph 5 of Article 22 to propose a system of future protection by unscrupulous populists who, as soon as they come to power, may again want to cut pensions. Since SYRIZA is well aware of the issue, he wants to put a guarantee of recompense in the Constitution, not to happen and at some point find a legislator to do what the previous government has done with the trivialized replacement rates and which the Council of State has recently denounced. Mr President, if we were not in the House and perhaps in the most important process of constitutional revision, you would say that we are seeing a theatre of irrationality. We are watching a bid for populism and political amoralism on the part of a party that has ruled the same way for four and a half years in the country. Today, this party chooses to continue on the same road, in the same way and without a trace of self-criticism, without intent to sacrifice even one of the advertising lines that once brought SYRIZA to power, but also one of its members, who bear huge responsibility for the institutional curse of our country. SYRIZA, as his selfish state has demonstrated since 2012, is not sacrificed for anything or anyone. I remind you, however, what great Ezra Pound once said about such cases. He said: "If you don't make sacrifices for your ideas or you're not worth it or your ideas aren't worth it." I'm afraid SYRIZA's only case confirms both at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u150	The next speaker is Mr Ioannis Economou from New Democracy. The Minister will be followed by Mr Brutsis and the Minister, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a privilege, but also an honour, for a Member - and, above all, for a new Member - to participate in this top parliamentary procedure, such as the Review of the Constitution. It is a privilege for any positive and as broadly accepted intervention in the Constitution to feed up our democratic and parliamentary tradition and, above all, to strengthen the sense of citizens' confidence in the state and in politics, the state and the civilisation. I have chosen to place myself today in the debate on Article 3 because, in my opinion, it is one of the differences in ideological differences between liberal Greek centre-rights and SYRIZA and what highlights these differences in the political debate. In fact, in a leading parliamentary democracy, I think it revives both parliamentary and democracy. It is customary when we talk about State and Church relations, fans of segregation and neutral religion stress that they speak in terms of progress and development, accusing those who have a different view of sticking to the past and are unable to confront self-confidence in the new era. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to defend the existing relationship between the Orthodox Church and the State in terms of the future, by accepting the reality that is emerging and, above all, by guaranteeing that there is a tolerable, tolerant, liberal and secular state. Besides, the past of the relationship under discussion doesn't seem to need a highly competent lawyer. Hellenism and Christianity are closely intertwined, influenced, and coexist through a number of times over two millenniums, during which there has also been a fierce controversy between them. Looking at the great picture, however, everyone can only accept the valuable national contribution of the church to all fields, especially in difficult times, in the dark centuries, but also today to the spiritual and social level. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who ends the school in Greece must know some basic things about Orthodox Christianity. Otherwise he is unable to understand the country in which he lives and the compulsory education he is attending. Lack of knowledge for anyone living in Greece today recommends, in my view, incomplete engraving, as if they did not know where Lamia fell or how the primary equations were solved or what happened in the Persian Wars. It is knowledge that everyone must have, regardless of whom god he believes, or whether he does not believe in any god. But let us return to the future, to the conditions of protection of the secular and tolerant for every citizen's faith or for their atheism in the character of our state. I'll focus on two points. The first point concerns the architecture of the modern world. Today, at global level, the networks are a key factor in success and prosperity, and in the case of small population entities, such as our country, they are, in my opinion, not unconditional for their survival and preservation of their specific identity. Two of the networks available to Hellenism are the diffusion and the Orthodox Church and, in fact, they are networks that are fully connected, since they are dispersed without orthodox. What is it, ladies and gentlemen, that unites in a single set the third generation of Greeks who do not speak at all Greek and live in a state of North America, with the descendant of Asia Minor resident in Lebanon, with the Greeks of Cyprus, with the Greeks, with the Greeks of Australia, with the Greeks who emigrated into the crisis? What makes them members of a single set? In my opinion, the Orthodox Church with its functional, adoring and cultural model is the Orthodox Church, which, in persuading times, is still attractive. It's still attracting and radiating. It is the colossal preservation of the evangelical Greek language. It is the great decisive influence of Hellenism in Orthodoxy through the Ecumenical Patriarchate and the rest of the Patriarchates. It would be inappropriate, in my opinion, if the strength and dynamics of these networks were to prevent it or to block it, lifting up walls. The country would be the one to be damaged, the nation would lose, not the Orthodoxy. The second point, ladies and gentlemen, is the confusion that often exists in the public debate between the separation of Church and State and Church and society. Many believe that institutional separation will lead to marginalisation, to the privateisation of the Church, so that, for example, the priest does not politicize by a lamb. In my opinion, this is a reasonable mistake, which will produce the exact opposite results. In other words, it will bring about an unprecedented freedom of movement for the Church in public life, apart from any existing state control, accountability and transparency. If the review request for the Left is political marginalisation, the weakening of the Church through separation, I think that institutional divorce will not lead to this result. See, many cases of State and Church relations on the part of the Church clearly have a customary dimension. I'm telling you the images in public buildings or the presence of public celebrities in national festivities. On the other hand, the institutionalized relationship and intervention of the State in the Church is of greater importance. The Archbishop of Athens is elected and is valid if there is a presence of the Minister of Education at the Synod. The Church cannot establish and build its own cemeteries. Only municipalities can. The Minister of Education shall participate in the committees which determine the inability of a metropolitan to carry out his duties. Moreover, the new metropolitans give their assurance to the President of the Republic that they will observe the sacred rules. The Church in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is not a mere association of similarists or a simple cultural organization. Its self-determination in an institutional divorce with the state would give it an even greater political power, with its own law and executive mechanism, forcing the state to look for other types of relationship between them. Already, to be honest, the state often refuses to perform its institutional role, "it allows" - within introductory forms - to be involved in secular political dialogue and to attempt a more influence than it would be appropriate to it. Let us consider what will happen if the state has no influence over this Church. So let us not listen to sirens of so-called modernism, which, in my opinion, are the precursors of darkness. The fact that church and state separation works in some states of Europe is because in these countries there are more churches, which are equal, identical or similar, to the population or a large part of the population is not ecclesiastically bound. This is not the case in Greece. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the Church and State must continue to have an indissociable relationship. After all, Article 13 ensures freedom of religious conscience for all Greek citizens. Anything other than institutional improper, would be in my view foreign to our collective self-concept, since Orthodoxy for the Greeks is not a simple construction, it is an integral part of our identity as it has emerged from our historical path and as it is based on our tradition, popular and also words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u152	We will now give the floor to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsi. Then, as we said, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, Mr Bogdanos, Mr Simopoulos, from the list of speakers, and then Mr Voutsis, will follow. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the particular honour and pleasure of presenting myself to the Government before the National Representation the constitutional assurance in our Revision House of the minimum guaranteed income. This is a great social intervention. This is something that will change social policy in our country in the future as we knew it. But let me say that there is something I personally relate to. It was the period of 2012-2014, when at the time in the heart of the crisis, by monitoring and analysing the social policies that we were conducting as a Greek state, it was, unfortunately, found that the exercise of social policy in all previous years, as well as the good intention of having, as much resources as it could have - which we really had as a percentage of GDP as compared to the other European countries - ultimately the result was far below any expectation, because there were interactions and fragmentation of the system. We are talking about a system that did not see each other, so that resources would go lost in the sense that they would eventually lead to people who did not need the money and those who did not really have it, that they would not benefit. So already in 2012, with our insistence and monitoring on the problem of social policy, it has been established that the minimum guaranteed income can be part of social integration and one of the main pillars of social solidarity in Greece tomorrow. The minimum guaranteed income was proposed for the first time in Greece under Law 4093 of 2012. The first historic step of this social innovation was taken by the publication of the historical - I stress, a historical - joint ministerial decision under number 39892 of 2014, signed by Gikas Hardouvelis, Christos Stakos, George Dolios, Vassilis Kegeroglou and I, Yiannis Vroutzis, as Minister, and with which the legislative framework for beneficiaries was clarified, the level, the procedure and the bodies responsible for paying the minimum guaranteed income, as well as any other relevant topics for the implementation of this income support programme in some, initially, areas of Greek territory. The first step had already been taken. The crisis has emphatically demonstrated the distortions of the social protection system and the urgent need to introduce a minimum guaranteed income limit, which will guarantee human status first and foremost. The minimum guaranteed income is not just a mechanism for the recovery of extreme poverty, but is part of a wider supporting grid of social protection combined with social welfare services and reintegration measures in the labour market, because this is the most important objective. Inaugurating now in 2014 the institution of minimum guaranteed income as the most innovative social policy tool that the country has ever had, we have responded to the distortions, gaps and contradictions of the social protection system in Greece, which was socially unfair and mainly economic and socially ineffective. Today we are completing this intervention by carrying out the second and most important historic step, proposing its constitutional safeguard. The proposal for constitutional safeguards is a flagrant interference with social protection and the introduction of social rights, aimed at strengthening and supporting our economically weak fellow citizens who have been affected by the economic crisis. In this way, the weakest, hardest hit by the economic crisis, acquire an additional right and become visible for the first time in the constitutional order, while at the same time strengthening equality, proportionality, social rights and legal certainty. The minimum guaranteed income is already based on Article 21(3) of the Constitution "the principle of the social state", and Article 2 of the Constitution "respect for human value", while it appears more and more frequently in international texts: Article 13 of the European Social Charter, Article 30 of the Revised Charter, Article 34(3) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Today the New Democracy, in its proposal to the Revision meeting of the Parliament for the constitutionalisation of the minimum guaranteed income, seeks to shield the protection of decent living while ensuring human dignity itself. In particular, in Article 21(1) of the Constitution, which refers to social rights, the New Democracy proposes to add: ‘The State shall ensure that all citizens enjoy decent living conditions by means of a minimum guaranteed income system’. In this way, we aim to strengthen social rights by enriching the Constitution with an additional right which is one of the most modern measures of social protection, along with strengthening other pillars of social protection, such as the institution of the family and access to the labour market for all. The minimum guaranteed income has gained a dominant position - because of the economic crisis - by establishing for all family members a minimum economic security, which is the basis for each society's cohesion. At the same time, however, it recommends an integrated intervention in the social fabric as it is accompanied by a wide range of support services aimed at actively reintegrating citizens into economic and social life. Today the minimum guaranteed income is for two hundred thousand households and covers a total of four hundred fifty thousand people. Of these fifty - six thousand are unemployed. In particular, twenty - one - parent families and over fifty - six thousand households with children are covered. Of all the families, two hundred and thirty - six thousand have incomes under 5,000 euros, while thirty - thousand have zero income. For this year, it is estimated that 670m euros will be paid. The average provision per household is EUR 213 monthly. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the golden opportunity for all the political forces to agree with this great constitutional change that will shield our weak fellow citizens for the first time. I think it is positive that the SYRIZA side too, despite the criticism that existed at the beginning of the application of the minimum guaranteed income, retained the minimum guaranteed income under another name, but maintained it. And today we are all here to make this big decision in favour of Greek citizens and our country. I urge you to vote in favour of the government's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u154	Here is Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Revision of the Constitution is a leading moment for the National Representation and for the parliamentary process. It is a moment when we are all called upon to consider how the development of the institutions and of the culture can be crystallised in the Constitution, the evaluation of the functioning of the institutions and provisions of the Constitution. It is a moment when political and social relation is reflected, as is expressed every time by popular sovereignty. As other colleagues have said before, this is the first time in the Reformation that the elections that took place between the proposing and the Revising Parliament have shown a different majority. This creates specific different data in this review process. Especially in this review process - although every time historical collective experience is taken into account - since the 2008 Review until now, in 2019, we can only take into account the great traumatic and dramatic collective experience of the crisis and the enforcement of the memorandums. The crisis in the Memorandum policies throughout Europe and in our country, which we have experienced dramatically, has had a direct impact on the functioning of the institutions, on the functioning of Parliament. It has led to the weakening of the institutions as a whole and the confidence of the people and the democratic institutions, and one of the biggest victims of this period was the social state and the social rights that we owe today to our debate to include them. This section is one of the most important. Unfortunately, even though the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, already from the Proposed House, but also from other opposition parties, have tabled important provisions on rights as a whole and on social rights in particular, we see, on the part of the majority, that there is no will - and I shall refer to the arguments which have been heard in this Chamber - only the proposal for Article 21, which the majority has tabled on the proposal which the Minister for Labour has previously put forward, on a minimum guaranteed income. I believe, first of all, that with regard to Article 3, Article 13 and Article 5, the majority position is inconsistent, not with a left-wing proposal - it is not here - but with fundamental liberal provisions, when the majority determines itself as a European party, and it speaks of democratic modernisation in terms of our constitutional framework and the provisions which are included. In other words, when Article 3 states that the time has come for rationalisation - both our rapporteur and our special rapporteur have said so very well - between relations between States and the Church, this is a fundamental democratic proposal to modernise our constitutional framework. With regard to the inclusion of the admission of prevailing religion, this under no circumstances has Mr Kamine left - it has no regulatory dimension. That is why there is the interpretative statement, which quite clearly states that there is no regulatory dimension behind this wording, proposed for purely historical and accreditation reasons. So, in this sense, we think it is a democratic development for our own Constitution, and hence the political oath and oath of the President of the Republic. Where we find the majority totally inconsistent is with Article 5, because here we are talking about the elementary principle, the enrichment and updating of a fundamental individual right, which is the free development of the individual's personality. I mean, it's the basis of the urban constitutions, it's not about an ideological race. On the contrary, it shows conservatism on the part of the New Democracy, which is not justified by a liberal party, which has neoliberal views, unless we disagree with the neoliberal dimension of your policy. The proposal we are talking about and we have presented concerns the existence of absolute protection and non-discrimination on grounds of sex, gender and sexual orientation. This is something that you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have already voted on under the Treaty of Lisbon in 2008, as regards the Charter of Fundamental Rights. It is paragraph 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is fully integrated and produces the same results as the Treaty of Lisbon, where it clearly states that ‘it prohibits any discrimination on grounds of sex and sexual orientation’. We cannot incorporate into our Constitution everything that we put or have accepted in European treaties. This could be said in terms of specific policy specificities, such as, for example, the policies of the Eurozone, where they do not need to be enshrined in the Constitution. However, as far as the basis of a constitution, namely individual and social rights, is concerned, that is not the case. We therefore believe that until we get to the vote you will have to look into this matter again. I now come to the most critical of all the issues, which are social rights. The truth is that since the 1990s, since 1989, with the full prevalence of unregulated globalisation without rules, we have gradually seen the financial system, markets and the economy dominated policy. However, we have seen something more serious, and here I would like to respond to the specific arguments which have been heard by majority speakers. We saw a political economic view, as neo-liberalism was, at the time, an economic view and not even the prevailing one. We have therefore seen the European Union's response to institutionalise it in a fragmentary way in the context of the functioning of the Eurozone, often in conflict with the Treaty of Lisbon. At the same time, we saw the disintegration of the social state and social rights, which was the great conquest of the social contract, which followed World War II with the next generation of social rights. This is a critical introduction to our specific proposals, which Mr Katrugalos and Mrs Ahtsoglou have presented, in order to respond to the arguments which have been made regarding these proposals and I quote one - one. First argument. We have heard it from Mr Javara, who always speaks very beautifully and documentedly, the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, who said: 'But why do you need the extra safeguard? The Constitution in 1975 has guaranteed them." That is the one view, which has been heard many times by the majority. No one denys that the 1975 Constitution was promoted in relation to many other Social Rights Constitutions. But we now have another juncture, another experience, and that is why we cannot stay in that it was promoted at the time, but in what we have lived in these ten years and what has proved to be the case with regard to social rights. What has been proved, ladies and gentlemen, is that social rights were not shielded. The second argument I heard from the rapporteur-general of the Change Movement, Mr Loverdou, is that we should not include wishing words in the Constitution. I have to say that the dramatic experience of the Troika and the institutions was against the suffocating and blackmailing pressures accepted by all the governments that implemented memoranda, there was an important diversion when the ministers were talking to the troika and then to the institutions. And this impediment was the provisions of the Constitution. So the second argument on blessing is also being rejected, in that even because the troika that had a lack of democratic legitimacy and as the partners operated on all issues, when it was a matter of constitutional regulation, because they also represented a European constitutional system, the Constitution was a point in the negotiation. So that's going down, too. They're not wishing. When there is an explicit provision in the Constitution, it also regulates the application of these rights, but also negotiating on the basis of the recent experience of the country. Let's not close our eyes like we're in 2008 and the previous Review. It's been eleven dramatic years. We would be blind, I believe, if this is not the case, to ensure social rights. Furthermore - and this is the reality and the essence of the ideological and political difference - if the constitutional arguments are pretext. Then say, for your part, that you are in fact opposed to having another ideological position and orientation. For my part, I responded to the institutional arguments. With regard to the third argument, which my colleague, Ephie Ahtsoglou, replied. We have heard from the majority and from some opposition parties the question: 'How can they be put to the Constitution for Social Rights when they are in line with the country's budgetary possibilities'? But that's the reversal of the argument. The very argument is that neoliberalism and austerity policy have been institutionalised at European level, and it has been attempted by the majority, but it has been deterred by the proposed House, that there should be the corresponding regulation of the Eurozone as regards the budget and our Constitution, which would be the full constitutional introduction of a neoliberal restrictive policy. So the opposite is true, the rights exist and, as has been explained, there may be a relativeization of their implementation in periods of economic difficulties, but they cannot be abolished. Social rights cannot be disqualified. This introduction, ladies and gentlemen, is necessary and crucial to explain why, on our part, we insist on establishing them in the Constitution, and we consider that your refusal is mainly to do with a different ideological and political position and not with a different institutional constitutional view. This was understood that the Minister for Labour presented before the proposal for a'minimum guaranteed income'. We are proposing our own level of decent living in a universal social state, with universal social services. What is the risk, experience and feasibility behind this diversification? Where clean neoliberalism prevailed, because its effects had to be addressed, extreme poverty, spectacular inequalities and unemployment and the collapse of the social state. We have supported a universal social state which guarantees a decent living for citizens. The minimum guaranteed income approach does not cover us and we explain why. In the debate that took place in the Committee on Revision of the Constitution - there was a great deal of discussion - there was an opportunity for the majority to increase its proposal. We will see whether a comprehensive proposal will be tabled by Mr Javarra. In any case, until we see the intentions of the majority, in terms of including the universality of social services, we remain cautious, and we support our original proposal I mentioned earlier. I would like to mention something else to the Members of the majority who you have to say in the European Union. In the suspension of social rights, the first infringement took place at European level. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] When the crisis started in 2008 - and I conclude with this phrase - the first chapter, which was deactivated by the Treaty of Lisbon, was on social rights. We have experienced an informal institutional diversion. While, on the contrary, we have seen in the Eurozone prevailing institutions such as the Eurogroup which is not provided for in the Treaties and the adoption of fragmentary provisions in the functioning of the Eurozone at the expense of the Treaty itself and democratic and social principles. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation to the Greek people and the sacrifices it has made over the years to be able by this Revision of the Constitution to calculate the lessons of the crisis and truly to safeguard social policy again, in order to shield, update and strengthen social rights in the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u156	The next speaker is Mr Bogdanos Konstantinos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing two thematic sections of articles, which largely reveal the unacceptable work and ideological exploitation by the previous parliamentary majority of this sacred majority on the procedure for the revision of the Charter of Homeland, a procedure initiated by the then majority - to say things by their name - for two main reasons: The first is to block the necessary and mature revision of Article 16 for several years. And unfortunately, this is not the first time we have seen this happening in the country's parliamentary times. The second reason is to act as an ideological marker, as an inexperienced way of addressing the then majority of its party audiences, in revising its alleged progressivity. And in order to serve this targeting, the well-known instruments have of course been recruited. On the one hand, constitutional verbatimism, namely the attempt to load the Constitution with useless extra words, which not only help but also create further problems. On the other hand, the attack on the idea of the nation, national conscience and identity, anti-religionism and anti-climateism, i.e. the usual children's diseases of supposedly progressiveity. See, in fact, how far the hardworking and deeply ideological exploitation of this review process arrives. SYRIZA suggested with a veil the revision of Article 3 in the name allegedly of neutral religion. At the same time, the proposers know that the preamble to the Constitution "To the name of the Holy and Omousi and Indivisible Trinity" will remain unchanged because it is unrevised. And even more cunning - it has already been pointed out, but it does not hurt once again - that Article 16, which defines as the objective of education the development of the religious conscience of the Greeks, reasonably fearing that the next majority, of the New Democracy, would review Article 16 and thus allow private universities to function in the country at last. These are unacceptable games with institutions. It is a clear mockery of Greek women and Greek citizens, whether they share the so-called goal of neutral religion or not. But let me go to the deepest substance of the matter. The right of neutrality of the State does not exist. On the contrary, there are the sacred individual rights of religious freedom and of the equality of Greek citizens, regardless of their religious faith, which are adequately and powerfully protected by the existing provisions of the Constitution. Nor does one of us, of course, have the obligation - and most importantly the right - to try to change the content of the national identity and consciousness, as the SYRIZA rapporteur alleged in committee, even though this side invokes a certain pedagogical role. Because, in fact, the SYRIZA rapporteur also invoked her status as a historian, let me remind you that the Greek national identity and conscience was one of the two main pillars of the formation of the new Greek nation along with the language. In fact, religion has a more important role, because the language criterion was not in the spoken language, but in the functional language, that is, whether the Divine Function was in Greek or in another language. That meant speaking Greek. The first argument, therefore, against the constitutionalisation proposed by SYRIZA of the state's neutrality, concerns the respect of not just of historical truth, but of the same process of ethnicisation of the new Greekism. The second argument concerns the fact that our nation over time incorporates without problem Greeks of other confessions, other religious faith, atheists, with the state guaranteeing religious freedom and equality, and where further guarantees are needed, this has proved to be a matter of ordinary legislator - see anti-racist law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u158	The old calendars ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u159	They're protected by the laws and by the Constitution absolutely, Mr. Philie. Thirdly, the fact that such so-called reform proposals are against them the vast majority of Greek citizens, and here I shall dare say orthodox and not. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is a country with a special identity and mission. It's a body of history, values and culture. It was reborn a hundred and ninety-eight years ago on the vision that the new Greek state should act as a beacon of freedom and as a privileged guardian of the double priceless deposit of the ancient Greek spirit and of the Orthodox faith. And this special identity and mission the vast majority of Greeks recognize it and respect it. The vast majority of Greeks are proud of the heavy burden of our national identity, and this faith and pride is what keeps our society up, even in the hardest adventures. So there is a misguided advancement in the demand made in this debate that the Greeks should not be resented in public. It is abusive forwarding that the unreasonable introduction of ideologies, such as that of secularity, that suit nations with a different process of birth, otherwise, completely respected, awesome loads. It is abusive progression and is also an insult to the overwhelming majority of the Greeks, orthodox and non-religious, agnostic and agnostic, atheist, the abundant claim to be erased with one of the most valuable elements of our state history and tradition. On the contrary, truly progressive is the ever deeper, more substantial safeguarding of the rights and freedoms of all citizens without exception. The claim - and I close with it - to hide - whether we are the majority or the minority - is what we are and what we believe to be, to cover everything that makes us proud, to cover our identity for the benefit of some who - supposedly - are insulted by it, is not a liberal claim, is not an enlightenment claim. On the contrary, it's a deep-minded claim. And in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, the light is right! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, we have announced that Mr Simopoulos will follow and then the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis. He called for the Greek Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution to be preceded, because he wants to go to a committee. If there is no objection, I suggest that we give him the floor and continue, as the list has been announced. There does not seem to be any objection by a colleague. Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in our first speech, we mentioned that the debate on the Revision of the Constitution is a pretext for the eyes of the world, since the only, substantial change is the vote of Greeks abroad, especially when the debate is taking place at a time when Greece is more than bankrupt, under the supervision of its creditors, at least until 2100 and with governments that sell everything at degrading prices, both public and private property. They haven't even hesitated to mortgage what we've got, and we don't have the criminal PSI. They outlawed the Constitution, reversed the referendum. They sold out Macedonia's name without even holding a referendum and abandoned our borders, so our islands sinking from illegal immigrants, with the settlement of our country on the ground by people who certainly do not want to assimilate, as the Minister of Civil Protection believes, but to assimilate us. However, the Greek Constitutions, according to the Greek law, were born in the flames of the Greek Revolution, after being hatched by the visions of the Greek Enlightenment. In particular, since the start of the fight of independence, the Greeks have been fascinating to manifest their will for real, democratic governance. Thus, during the revolution, three democratic constitutions were introduced. Sadly, however, they had to abandon them for the sake of survival. Then successive uprisings led to the adoption of five Constitutions: 1844, 1864, 1911, 1925 and 1927. Thus, our country was gradually led to the first Hellenic Republic by the Constitutions of 1925 and 1927. However, just eight years after the 1927 Constitution, the monarchy recovered again, while the war, German occupation and the Civil War led Greece back to the restoration of authoritarianism with the 1952 Constitution and the 1967 dictatorship. After the fall of the dictatorship now, Greece had the great opportunity for a genuine democratic reform, as well as for a radical renewal of political life, but without making it possible, after the same families have returned to power, with the political help of the generation of the Polytechnic, along with the old 1952 constitution most of it. It followed the anachronistic constitution of 1975, which became even worse with its subsequent revisions, a constitution that allowed the creation of the monster of post-multipleism, which lived - and lives - in parasitic terms, by destroying our public wealth. The final result was to lead Greece to the excessive debt of 2009, to the bankruptcy of 2012 and to the loss of its national sovereignty, without any reason at all, while the future that is being erased before us is much darker than we imagine, although there are many solutions available to us. In any case, our story has established that the Constitutions only change by revolution and never by those who use them to suck off everyone else. Let us hope, of course, that nothing will happen again, since everyone should have learned from their experiences, something that remains to be proved in practice. Furthermore, we must know that the political system consists of two things: institutions and political persons operating on these institutions. Once the institutions are loose and there are no institutional security barriers, then politicians, who are defects, like all of us, are fleeing from the task of defending national and social interests. Therefore, we need institutional security barriers so that political persons can operate exclusively in the national and social interest. However, such institutional differences do not exist in Greece, for example: Firstly, we do not have a constitutional court for quick and universal cancellation of an anti-constitutional law. Therefore, the government in question is easy to establish anti-constitutional laws, serving various interests. None of us understand why our country is the only, almost, in Europe, who does not have a constitutional court. Who really stops it? Secondly, we have no referendums on the citizens' initiative, so that the government in question fears that it can be faced with citizens if it works against them. Thirdly, we have not elected the President of the Republic by the citizens so that it can stand in the way of intentional or incorrect choices of a government. A recent example here is the President of Iceland, who rescued her from a fate similar to Greece. Fourthly, we have no distinction between executive, legislative and judicial authority. All powers are over-concentrated in the hands of a almighty Prime Minister, literally an elected monarch, which is a shame for all of us. Fifthly, the House, i.e. the current government majority, is still solely responsible for the crimes of ministers and Prime Ministers, not regular justice as it was due. Sixthly, it is still immediately removed from the hands of justice or any investigation of crime as soon as a minister's name has been reported. It is not possible for the political system to be finalised. In short, Article 86 is still working to cover any crimes of the ministers. Nothing changes what is being proposed. We could add a lot more, but it would take a lot of time that we don't have. We would just like to add that by listening to our SYRIZA colleague claiming that it is not the Constitution for the Crisis in the country, but that it is also the victim of the crisis, and also that the crisis has created a 'parallel', with the memorials etc., next to the Constitution, we have sincerely been disappointed. Simplifiedly, on the basis of what we have just said, the Constitution was not the victim of the crisis, but it has made a major contribution to the creation of the crisis, and it will then not be able to help save our country. For example, when SYRIZA violated the July 2015 referendum and made the 'no' of the citizens 'yes' for lenders, where was the Constitution to cancel this act and punish those responsible? Where was the Constitution to cancel the monuments and enslavements of the country for a century, punishing those responsible? Where was the Constitution to cancel the Embassy Agreement and punish those responsible? Where is the possibility for citizens to provoke a referendum to put order in the country? Where is the President of the Republic, with the power of election by the citizens, to ask for explanation from the government? So where is the Constitution for all this anticipated? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So let us not deal here with articles that are not going to change absolutely anything, such as those that are being proposed. Let us do what we need to do if we want to be worthy of Greeks and of their history. Let's stop mocking them with pretext changes. Let us do something that really benefits our country, which experiences a unique crisis in world history. With regard to the articles of the first thematic section of the Constitution we are negotiating today, I would like to say that neutrality is not the same as freedom. Thus, the concept of religious neutrality does not match religious freedom. Our Constitution, however, protects religious freedom in Article 13(1), which, in fact, is not revised on the basis of Article 110(1) of the Constitution. In addition, the provision of Article 3, as it is shaped, does not imply religiously identifying the Greek state. The term 'predominant religion' has a real dimension. It is referred to as predominant in the sense that most of the population are Christian Orthodox, not in the sense that it surpasses, that it is in any way preceded by religious conscience. In Part Three of the Constitution, the organisation and functioning of the state, in particular in Section II, deal with issues relating to the President of the Republic. Article 33(2) of the Constitution explicitly provides that the President of the Republic is to give a religious oath with specific content. The Greek Solution believes that the President of the Hellenic Republic should give a religious oath only before taking up his duties. The duties of the President of the Republic shall give prestigious and supreme responsibility, which, by definition, only entail religious vows. We also believe that Article 59(1) of the Constitution, which provides for a religious oath for Members taking up duties. On the basis of all the above, we argue that Articles 3, 13(5), 33(2), 59(1) and 59(2) of the Constitution must remain the same. Now, on the second theme, I would like to say: This provision of the Constitution clearly writes "for absolute protection of life, honor and freedom". He writes, "Everyone who is on Greek territory". The phrase 'all those...', etc., obviously refers to everyone, regardless of sex, gender, age or anything else. The editorial legislator did not want to determine by aggressive definitions 'all', precisely so as not to restrict, not to exclude anything. In any event, the provision refers to fundamental rights. So, by definition, the phrase must be simple and general in order to ensure absolute protection. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that our first priority must be the establishment of a constitutional court. At least for the Greek Solution this is the first priority. I shall mention just a few constitutions and exactly how they work. For example, the French Constitution in Article 61 states that the laws before they are published and implemented must be submitted to the Constitutional Council which decides on their agreement with the Constitution. The same applies to the Belgian court in 142: ‘The administrative court shall decide on the infringement of the articles of the Constitution by a decree...’, etc. Any person having a legitimate interest or a preliminary ruling may appeal to that court to any authority designated by the law. In the Swiss constitution we have Article 108, where every Swiss citizen, the national council, can be appointed to the federal court. In German we don't have a constitutional court alone in the federal state, but in every single federal state. Up to Skopje there is a constitutional court, composed of nine members among prominent members of the legal profession. Only Greece has no constitutional court. So someone's blocking it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, before giving Mr Simopoulos the floor, allow me a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House organises and operates, eight Belgian visitors. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am really happy with the process. And I am pleased that it is a deep political process, a process which enables us to oppose ideologically, to highlight our differences. Because the way in which we approach the Constitution's Review, highlights our differences and is an answer to many who believe that parties have no differences. I think this is very good for our democracy. Politically, then, I will speak rather than constitutionally. Besides, I'm not even legal. I'm an engineer. I begin with three concepts, which one colleague from SYRIZA mentioned earlier: home, religion, family. I am convinced that these three concepts have kept our nation standing, especially over the last decade, in crisis. So they are concepts that run most of the Greek people, regardless of party beliefs. Coming now in the Constitutional Review, I must first congratulate the Left, which has a way of creating symbols, whether these symbols are faces, facts, or political conflicts, in which centre-right has no significant success. At the same time, the Left easily creates political enemies - symbols. For people, I don't need to talk about for a long time. There are a lot of them that have been heroised. From our side, it's very little, maybe none of them. Are there? Of course. Without putting party labels, if Marfin's victims had anything to do with the Left, today in the park next door, there might have been a lot of adrians.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u164	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u165	But I shall refer to facts and political conflicts and, of course, I shall start with the most recent one. With the well-established course of the Polytechnic, we have about the same course. For the Left, even today...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Simopoulos, do you have anything to say about the Constitution? Okay, so you're gonna have to tell me about the Polytechnic...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u167	I'm talking about the Constitution. Let me finish and you'll understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u168	For the Constitution to speak. We're doing all the stuff...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u169	It's not all the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u170	I'm not talking to you. Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u171	With the well-established course of the Polytechnic, we have about the same course. For the Left, even today, it symbolises the battle for more democracy, no matter whether 50 years after our democracy is deep and solid. Of course, especially if power is centre-right government, which, by definition, serves dark plans against popular conquests, then the Polytechnics acquires an anti-government dimension. After all, he did it yesterday, the Chief of Officerial Response. But now, a very small audience has ears, because the "Psalm, Education, Freedom" of the 1960s and 1970s for most Greeks means more and better paid jobs, in accordance with Article 24 of the Constitution, which is not reviewed. Universities, which are centres for the production of knowledge and not for the production of antisemitism or for the marketing. Article 16 and private universities. Enlargement of the citizens to have more choice when it comes to health, education, welfare and culture. Any one of you, ladies and gentlemen, has read "The end of the red man", there will see that the main problem with the regimes, which had a state-owned perception of the economy, was the lack of choice. That is why, as far as public goods are concerned, I believe that citizens should have the option. That is why I think that we really had to revise Article 16. That is why I believe that energy markets and public transport must be free, with a regulatory role, of course, for the state. That is why I believe that water is a public good, and water companies must pay it to the state, but distribution could not be. It is a matter of purely regulatory principles. I now come to SYRIZA's obsession for religious neutrality. I do not want to embrace the view that the Left traditionally thinks of the Church as an entity which, with its charity and spiritual work, that is, with life and death, prevents the believers from moving here and now in the popular revolution. I don't think that's the case. I believe that, above all, it is the internationalism that runs on you as part of your political existence, an internationalism which, even in matters of language, may make some concessions. That is why you consider the battle to be top of this article. That's why you won't get the flag if you're behind human rights. With regard to constitutional patriotism, which I have listened carefully, I belong to those who say that there are nations and that there are countries and they are not countries, places and nations, peoples. So I will be against the view of constitutional patriotism. I believe in modern patriotism, which, of course, can also run across all parties. Finally, I should like to address those who define themselves as part of the wider centre-right, but they always find an excuse so that they do not join the New Democracy. The New Democracy today rejects SYRIZA's attempt to define the Greek state as a neutralist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The New Democracy has returned to the right bases the lesson of history, in schools the excellence of parade signifiers. The New Democracy unfolds a different policy to tackle the refugee problem with more border patrols, faster asylum procedures and closed pre-repeal centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u172	Mr Voutsis Nikolaos, former President of Parliament, has the floor. Please, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not leave it to mind that we all know that the dictatorship, which had clothed on its part and exploited some traditions of "Greek Christians" and "Parris, Religion, Family", fell from "Bread, Childhood, Freedom". That's what history has written. This honors every year and honoured the other tens of thousands of people the other day. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is why we should not be a review of history, even for the recent events, which we know very well. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a few remarks on critical issues, because, in essence, the constitutional issue, which has been heard by our rapporteurs, by our special speakers, by the parliamentary representative, I think it was very clear. I will start from what Montesquier said and Mr Javaras told us in the morning, that things lead to the state of a mature and response to things and developments, with constitutionalisation on these needs." I listened positively to what Mr Javarras said. And I waited immediately afterwards to say what things are within the ten-year-old crisis, namely what came up as a need in all these areas, particularly in the area of freedoms, rights, the social state, the major changes that have been made to the international round, the deadlocks in the face of the European Union, the issue of refugees - immigration that has brought about the surface in a firm manner of solidarity, humanism, etc., with which we have survived the crisis. Because that's what this is about. I was waiting for him to say that on this, we need to think, to reflect, to confront, obviously with our particular political and ideological views, and to legislate on the Constitution. Instead, after this finding, we returned back as if nothing had happened for ten years, and we heard, for example, that it is not the social rule of law that guarantees survival and the minimum income, etc., but it is the family, which in ten years showed that it was the element of unification and survival within the critical conditions of the Greek state. It's not like that. The family helped, as it helps over time. For example, in our hospitals, when people do not have - and we know it very well - to pay for the evening of special nurses, it is the family sitting next door. There are some things that we all know about. But what is the element that led to survival in the decades? It is obvious that the horizontal - and that is where the Church has its own contribution - a movement and a wave of solidarity, humanity, the values on which it has been able to stand, with dignity for this society, this people. Alas, if it is "Greek Christians"! Where did these things come from? Let me tell you that the theory of ideas that we have heard since yesterday is extremely awkward, because what does it show? It shows a mood of status, namely that there is an idea, one opinion, and that is normality, it is a deeply conservative view. There's nothing else, anything is evasive. In fact, if you look at the Minutes of colleagues, they say that the others are of the progressives - that is, half of Greece and more, after the Civil War too many times above - and speak in a way that shows that there is the view that is unmoved and let us have passed the post-mortem, the junta, the crisis, the bankruptcy. However, it is the view, which is now coming back to constitutionalization, and the others are various searches for dangerous, ethnicly neutralistic ones. I really am astonished by the fact that we have not seen anything from this crisis. For the whole of the rights now, take note of: Instead of the coexistence of the views of the liberal state on which your prolongation and political liberalism and the social rule of law constituted an advance, a maturity - and President Stylianidis said a few things about this issue, how he has gone to be a crown on a Europe-wide scale of the guarantees on social rights - instead of that, that is, instead of the concentration of these two concepts, which will produce the guarantees, regulations, enlargement, depth in relation to rights, it is clear that we have a profound neoliberal concept and a socially conservative concept. This is what this is about, within the distance of the first articles you have brought us and I think that Mr Pavlopoulou was the head of the Constitutional Review Committee before the fall of the previous government, the Samara Government. Let me tell you something about ecclesiasticals. Excuse me, where do we live, even since PASOK has taken steps in this area? What have we figured out these last few years? You, Mr. Bogdano, I interviewed the radio. Excuse me, is Mr. Bogdanos here? I showed before that, excuse me, Mr. Economou. He'll hear them. I interviewed him on the radio, chasing me with passion at that time, he was much younger when we were struggling here to move incineration into a third phase. While it had already passed unanimously twelve years ago, a month ago the incinerator was made by private individuals in Ritchona. And we were fighting, we brought it back, we brought it back, and we gave him a stunt! Book, doctorate can be written about who and how they restricted municipalities, prefectures. Mr. Kamines knows them perfectly, Mr. Boutaris, formerly Mr. Skinniotis. That's why I'm telling you that I remember that Mr. Bogdan had called me to make public how religious factors intervened in this case. Do we not know where they went from, Mr. Loverdos, those who have wanted for twenty, thirty years, and especially in the first few years yours to make political marriage? We don't know where our kids went from when we wanted to name them? We do not know about the political funeral, how now they refuse those who make a political funeral to host them - why, cemeteries belong to another state? - to graves in cemeteries? Thirty years! Didn't they hear about the property? I said before that I will give the information that people who have given me from Pieria the day before yesterday, who have done 15 years of work on how they are thousands of acres up to Mytika on Olympia, indiscriminately - with Ottoman boulevards and who have gone to Ankara and took from there - I don't know what they're saying, not retirements, but that I've been told to say - mortgages that they don't belong to the Turks. And I've been given the whole documentary to come to parliamentary control. Aren't these elements in today's society? I leave the theory, I leave the anti-historics that have been heard and the other ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u174	Proselymism...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u175	Proselymism! Mr President, Mr Stylianidis, I did not expect you - because it matters, you know, you know, you also play the role of President and you played it well - to give the signal, because I have heard other colleagues about the famous 98% who are Greek Orthodox. I don't know, it can be 85%, 90%, it can be 98% and 100% we're going particularly to Easter and we're saying the hymns and everything else. That's not what we're talking about. I'm so sorry! There is no poll in the last fifteen years that has been between 30% and 60% in the Greek people - obviously in religionists most - in favour of discrimination and a distinct role between the State and the Church. Why are you messing with this? To create an ideological front? This is ideoscopy, let me tell you! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You bring SYRIZA out of soft nails with an argument, Mr President, which I say to you that you said this morning - morning and other colleagues followed it. So the effort made for Article 3 and the other articles, not only by SYRIZA - by the Change Movement has been made, from Potami last time, by the wings of the Parliament - to denounce 98% of the Greek people? Where and where? Where does it come from? Why do you use this argument? It is a very different thing, it has to do with the formation of the state and the relations of the State with the Church, let alone religion, let alone religious ones. It's different things. But that is how fanaticism is created among us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u176	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u177	Yes, as far as I am concerned, of course, with the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u178	I want to make a point. When respecting diversity because we are committed to the absolute value of religious freedom, we do not need to abolish it. The distinct roles are given. We are therefore approaching the issue with respect for the other doctrine or even to the atheist, you say to abolish it. That's the difference of our philosophy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u179	Yes, sir. Only in the morning - and I told you - about 98%, that anyone who says something else is against 98% - is written in the Minutes - followed by four colleagues who arrived to Mount Athos, the colleague from Magnesia. They arrived to the former Prime Minister and Mount Athos. Don't you realize that this is how we build camps, we make tough conflicts? Last: I was amazed to hear from the Committee on Revision of the Constitution - where I was not - the dear Mr Loverdo, but am amazed today to refer to it - and I cannot leave it to myself, it had happened to be the Minister of the Interior at that time, and I see Mr Castanides, it was here a little while ago - and to speak of a naughty and illegal referendum in 2015. I thought it was within the committee, in the context of a comfortable debate, but it was repeated. Evidently, this referendum has become postgraduate, doctoral, and Mr Juncker has said what he said. Elections took place a month later, in order for the people to know whether there was what the people are saying'reveal the result' or whether or not - or even - a better deal has finally come or under what terms a better agreement has been reached. So on the substance of the question, how was it printed and more, an entire - not philology - political confrontation and international references have been developed for four and a half years. I would like to assure you - and I am speaking from this forefront - that this referendum was not the slightest objection from the intergroup committee which operated for a week and operated in the morning, at noon, at noon, at the Ministry of the Interior, for any aspect of it - and it took place within the Capital Controls regime, where we did not have to pay the judges who were leaving, that is, we also had technical issues, technical problems - there was no objection. In the House - Saturday, we proposed it from the Step - the constitutionality of the act had been substantiated as the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of the legislations has been established every time, and no one from there has talked about illegality, even by one vote. It's extremely dangerous. Are we going to review the very recent story? Everyone in politics can say what they want, about SYRIZA, about Tsipras, about those who voted at the time. Alas! Is 62% SYRIZA? We understand that. We went to elections. Politics, though. Are we going to get it out of the wrong and illegal? And since I am given the opportunity - and I am closing with this, Mr President - to say this from the Step of the House: that week through 90% of the systemic media there was an incredible, completely illegal broadcast. Illegal I mean in relation to the Kastanides law, on the basis of which the referendum took place. Do not revolt, because I can tell you what this law says about media and both committees, how they should show concentrations, etc. We suffered for six days - even on Saturday, before people went to vote - incredible things from this block that was then the anti-SYRIZA front. That was what happened that week and was out of law or could lead to an illusion of the will of the Greek people. Fortunately, the Greek people went over this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order. With your colleague's presidency, we had tried to regulate the issue of the secondary issue. The Conference of Presidents had not taken such a decision, but because of the issues raised, I had proposed today that we have the first provisions under discussion, to give the rapporteurs the right at some point to speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u181	By night we've got a lot of hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u182	Let's keep this in mind, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u183	I do not think the word should be denied by someone who wishes to give a second thought to some articles. The floor is held by H' Vice-President of Parliament, Sophia Sakorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President, and the Members who gave me their position so that I could speak before I went to the Chair. Ladies and gentlemen, this second theme session could be entitled 'The Lost Opportunity of Constitutional Review'. Today we are debating provisions which did not have the required majority of eighty-eight votes. These are very important provisions because they concern individual and social rights, provisions which characterise the quality of a liberal and democratic constitution. Liberal, however, in its true sense of freedoms, the recognition to the citizen of an arsenal of individual rights and fundamental freedoms, which will protect him from the violent intervention of the administration and power in its minimum individual space. Democratic because social rights enrich the production of society with the greatest possible participation of the wider majority, greater popular participation in economic, cultural and social life, thus more democracy in the country's political life. There is now an opportunity to broaden this liberal and democratic element of our Constitution with provisions that we have proposed and are in line with the new concepts that are formed in Greek and European society, with provisions that would be in line with our state history from the first constitutional formation to the provisional state of Epidaurus. The revolutionary Greeks two centuries ago did not hesitate to recognise a completely radical, for all of Europe, a range of rights and freedoms with the influence of the social demands of the Revolution, but also of the Greek and European Enlightenment. We are completely appalling when we are going to be harmonized in modern progressive and democratic perceptions. I'll stand in two places. The first is to extend our Constitution's liberal right to the individual area where power is forbidden. The majority view is that there should be no change in Article 5(2) of the Constitution to prohibit discrimination. Do we really believe that the article that exists today is satisfying us? Should not special attention be paid to banning discrimination, and in terms of gender, gender and sexual orientation, to the enjoyment of rights associated with the protection of life, honor and freedom? The reality proves that the protection that this article ensures today is inadequate and we have recent examples. As soon as day before yesterday, the Law of the Ministry of Sports was suspended, which provided for the application of a gender quota to the boards of the sports federations. In addition, the general wording of the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 of the Article shall be insufficient to guarantee the rights of refugees and migrants. We must remember that the enjoyment of equal rights for foreign and national citizens exists in our constitutional order from the constitutions of the Revolution. Freedom, which this article very rightly guarantees for foreigners within the Greek territory, can be limited when the possibility of broad interpretation is given to the exceptions introduced by international law, thus being invalidated in practice. Recent catalytic example of incorporating the directive of 13 December 2011 of the European Parliament on the status of international protection with unauthorised and anti-humanist restrictions. It is imperative to vote in favour of the change in this article in order to broaden the enjoyment of the rights of life, freedom and honor for all with a broad consensus. The Merra25 proposal covers precisely this need. The second opportunity we are losing is to confirm the democratic prerogative of the Constitution by deepening social rights, since the majority proposal is that there should be no change. In recent years, they have been characterized by a huge decline in social rights. The dreadful narrative of the "necessary status" was worked on without a time horizon. He also found a response to the case-law of the Supreme Courts. Today social rights have, I would say, a fig sheet. It is therefore imperative to reaffirm a number of rights once again: the right to work, health, social security, the deepening of the protection of motherhood, marriage, family and, in particular, the only parental family - children and the elderly. It is imperative to recognise new social rights, which are now matured, in our advanced society, such as the right to water, the enjoyment of electricity and the protection of first homes. Of course, how will you proceed to the full privatisation of PPC, water supply and red loans with the HERAKLIS project? I'm sorry, I forgot. It is very easy to recognise rights. It doesn't cost anything. The difficult thing is to guarantee that rights have meaning, content and application for everyone. Example: You guarantee digital governance. But can anyone, who doesn't have access to electricity and telecommunications, have access to a series of basic activities via the Internet? We recognize the social right to health. This is relatively easy. The difficult thing is to guarantee the right to water supplies, which ensures a minimum of hygiene, but also survival itself. Even if we vote on the most revolutionary and radical proposals on social rights, how can they find the ground for implementation, since the citizen is forced to get rid of them when the need for survival is pressing for poverty and impoverishment? Then we need constitutional protection. I do not have the illusion that a Western society today intends to guarantee the citizen an eight-hour job for which he can claim remuneration in proportion to his needs. But let us guarantee everyone the minimum: the right to survival, a minimum level of dignity. Let us put it down in the Constitution, let us establish a guarantee for benefits, so that no one can lose them to a degrading degree, as we are experiencing today. Let us make the right to work more imperatively and to collective agreements more urgently so that another development can be launched by designing labour-intensive investment, with decent conditions and fair remuneration. In the declaration of our party, we paraphrase our national poet with the words "the freedom of many will be excellence". That is the point of our realistic intervention in terms of the new progressive concepts accepted throughout Europe for banning discrimination. That is the point of our democratic intervention on social rights, which expresses the vision of hope for a society that is as many as possible involved. Today we must stand brave and not fearful, so that this historic opportunity is not lost. I urge you to vote in favour of the May25 proposal, a proposal which responds with a courageous and visionary 'yes' to the enlargement and deepening of social and individual rights. Because the Greek people need more freedom and deserve more democracy, two values that the Revolution of 1821 has translated throughout Europe and their shield in the Constitutional Review will be the best celebration of its two hundred years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u185	Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the unity of the social state and of social rights, which is also the very field of ideological political confrontation between the political forces, particularly in this respect between SYRIZA and the New Democracy. The SYRIZA proposal, of course, has an ideological character. The view of the colleagues of the New Democracy and many of them and the Movement of Change that social rights do not bring about anything essential in our proposal, but they are simply suggesting reprints, which have no practical impact, that this is verbatimism and the addition of useless words and phrases. In contrast to individual freedoms, social rights constitute an important element of the social state. In their constitutional capacity, they are given increased formality. The birth of social rights is linked to the fact that the social majority does not have access to basic goods. The few and the powerful are managed and fruitful of the produced wealth, since they possess the means of production. Thus, social rights aim to ensure that the majority of the social majority is equally involved in economic and social life. In their recognition rights and institutions - objective legal principles are guaranteed. This is why not only individuals and collective entities, but also the State which is obliged to act in specific directions and to pursue policies with corresponding content. Through social rights as collective action rights, wider areas where social competition is developing where interests conflict. For example, workplaces, social security, education, health and other social goods, the State is entitled to have, at least, the first or dominant or exclusive reason, in order to protect the public interest and to make the most of the socially fair distribution of the wealth produced. The protracted economic and social crisis has also had serious consequences for social rights. Unprecedented unemployment, particularly among young people, the deterioration of the protection of the world of work, the decline in the fields of social security and health, as well as the abolition of collective bargaining and collective agreements, have led to the degradation, substantial abolition of the social state and, consequently, of any social protection structures. This leads to the need to restore and strengthen social rights, which must be legally binding, in addition to the nature of their purely political declaration. In addition, the effectiveness of the social principles and rights guaranteed by constitutional law is also sought, as such protection is mainly achieved through legislative institutional intervention. SYRIZA's proposal highlights the progressive concept of a social state that is stable and strengthened with rights that will apply to all citizens. The aim is to strengthen the regulatory density, but also the conductivity of social rights. Furthermore, in our proposal, not only is the universality of social rights strengthened, but the social state is shielded in such a way as to minimise the risk that Greek society will experience such a and large poverty, which it suffered during the 'immemorandum' policies. In this context, indicative elements which make up our proposal are as follows: ensuring a decent standard of living for all citizens, through specific interventions and policies, public control of basic social goods, water and electricity, in such a way as to ensure that all citizens have access to them and that the relevant services are of high quality and, of course, at affordable prices - the position of cheap water shows, unfortunately, the Government's intentions - to guarantee the right to health not only for the State to provide health services but also for the right of citizens to have access to effective health services through the national health system, the application of the principle of equal treatment in the field of work and, consequently, the prohibition of any kind of age, which, during the period of the memorandums, has been cancelled by the legacy of the under-paid wages for young workers until the age of twenty-five years. I would like to stress, however, in the recent Energy Legislation, which is in the process of being discussed in the committee responsible, where the principle of equal pay for equal work is unequivocally fulfilled, by distinguishing between old and new workers. Enlargement of the protection of work, collective labour rights and the right to social security is one of the principles on which our proposal is based. Conservation of the collective autonomy of free collective bargaining, collective agreements and, in addition, the principles of favorability and unilateral referral to arbitration are proposals which are considered necessary, following the lamentation of the 'immemorandum' arrangements which have established labour law and left workers at the mercy of employers' arbitrage. This complements the constitutional framework for the protection of workers. On the contrary to SYRIZA's proposal, the neoliberal concept expressed by the New Democracy takes on social rights as mere wishes applied by the relevant state bodies in due course. In fact, social rights are seeking to be a kind of charity. And one last, as far as the rights of group action in the workplace are concerned. The trade union activity and the exercise of the right to strike for the government are regarded as dangerous, by pretext for the trade union bureaucracy, but also by trade union practices, as has recently been done by the Prime Minister who has denounced the right to strike as a cause of discomfort for the citizens. The continuing complaints of these rights by all market-controlled propaganda mechanisms are aimed at radically weakening the position of workers so that individual contracts of employment ultimately prevail. This, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations, is your pursuit. The version of the constitutional review you propose is inspired by the one and only concept that you recognize, that of neoliberalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u187	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ypsilantis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, beginning my intervention in the first section of Article 3 of the Constitution, let me refer to the historic proclamation of Alexander Ypsilant: "Maho pro Faith and Patridis", so that we can see how the Leader of the Revolution of 1821 was mentioned with respect for the religion and relations in which the Greek state would be built in the course. And how, historically, all of this comes and is shown exactly in these words, where Alexander Ypsilante said that "with union, ostensibly, with the sanctity toward the sacred religion, with the subjection to the laws and generals, with the boldness and stability our victory is certain and unavoidable." If, of course, these are historical deposits, without colouring and sloganing and seeking to integrate them into this way of life, simply for today's debate, and which have been reflected in the Greek state's constitutional texts over time, I shall be returning to the reality of the debate on Article 3 and I shall argue in my view on why these provisions should not be reviewed. Greece is an institutional and constitutional European rule of law. State and church relations are distinct and clear. However, each state has a history of continuity and consistency, and this must be introduced in a worthwhile and regulatory manner. Through these provisions of Article 3, relations between church persons were arranged in well-established and constant critical circumstances for the nation and the vast majority of the people, Greeks and Greeks. These relations, therefore, cannot remain constitutionally regulators in the legal order, but must stand guaranteed by a discreet interference of the state under the dubious always light of the religious freedom of the full Article 13 of the Constitution. In Article 3, in essence, the Ecumenical Patriarchate contributes and is legalised, even retrospectively, on the basis of the historical events of that period, in collaboration with the Greek legal system, while the capital of the Church of Greece is also shown in terms of sound administration and legality in a broader statutory control subject to the reservations of the law in question. However, I would like to dwell on Article 3(2). I would also like to speak here as a Member of the Dodecanese. Any abolition or restriction of it would affect, ladies and gentlemen, the achievements of the Ecumenical Patriarchate in provinces, metropolitans of the Dodecanese, which are directly administratively subject to it, possibly even disrupting its transnational character, but also its intellectual, cultural interconnection with the Hellenic Republic. On the other hand, in Article 3(3), we see a remnant of the Evangelicals of the 1911 Review of the translation and interpretation of sacred texts, more than an institutional historical guarantee in favour of the Orthodox Church, which in no way disrupts the enlarged and modern freedom of expression that is now emphatically applicable everywhere, on the basis of legality again. Religious neutrality and religious freedom of the state are safeguarded and guaranteed clearly: First, since the 13(1) of the Constitution. Secondly, the European Convention on Human Rights. Thirdly, by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, with over-legislative power through Article 28 of the Constitution as primary law. Any addition is useless and institutionally dangerous multiples. I would also remind you of the relevant provision on the working conditions of the European Union in Article 17, which the Greek Constitution is in full balance, removing any doubt as to the need to revise the constitutional provisions on relations between States - Church. In particular, it is recorded: First, that the European Union respects and does not affect the status of churches and religious associations or communities in the Member States. Secondly, that it also respects the status of philosophical and non-confessional organisations, according to national law, that the European Union maintains an open, transparent and regular dialogue with these ecclesiastical organisations, recognising their special identity and contribution. The constitutional review, ladies and gentlemen, is not a political game of impression. We have to work - and we have also worked in committee - with awareness of the regulatory and enforcement nature of the Constitution as a fundamental rule of law, with a view to social cohesion and progress, with historical awareness and vigilance of the circumstances of today and the challenges of tomorrow. So when the European legal order itself sets this constitutional and institutional respect for the religious conditions of the Member States, Greece has what operating problem has on the unrealistic religious freedom to proceed with a dangerous and unnecessary review? Finally, with regard to the second section, what we are clearly avoiding is unnecessary exaggeration or guilty silence, I would venture to say, constitutional populism, with incomprehensible and only rhetorical additions, pointing out, in conclusion, that the right dimension and as the safeguarding of human dignity itself is the constitutional establishment and constitutional protection of the minimum guaranteed income in the express wording of Article 25(1). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u189	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Giolas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already entered the final debate on the completion of the top procedure for the revision of the Constitution, which ends on Monday. I would like to reinstate some thoughts today with the thematic unity of relations between the State and the Church. It is known to everyone that Article 3 of the Constitution reflects the historical course of the Greek nation towards modernity. Today, with the completion of about two hundred years of free Greek life, we are able to know that this Greek modernity did not only have bright sides. Reconciliation for these dark aspects of it is imperative and the redefinition of relations between the State and the Church is part of it. These dark aspects have been 'confronted' - the verb in introductorys - by us sufficiently with the SYRIZA Government's recommendation to the proposing and past parliament. Article 3, therefore, and part first of the proposal SYRIZA.Organised proclamation of the neutrality of the state. Which of the democratic forces can disagree with this declaration today? And I ask a more philosophical question, which is this: Who is the believer affected by the introduction of neutrality? What Christian Orthodox is affected? Is the church affected, in the context of a state such as our own, European, modern, democratic texture, in the schools whose disciples are 1/3 unorthodox? This proclamation undeniably condenses the brightest moments of Greek inclination. It reflects the spirit of King Ferraios. As Alvizat had stated and written "The Constitution and its enemies", he echoes the spirit of King Ferraios, the left conscience of the Constitution, but also so many other great intellectuals, liberals and left-wing intellectuals and his inclusion in the Constitution is not imperative, but should be self-evident. It differs substantially from the protectionist content of another provision of the Constitution, this article 13, which protects religious freedoms and possibly leaves the suspicion that the state is simply tolerant to other religions. A neutral state, however, ladies and gentlemen, is not tolerant. A neutral state is and must be religiously indifferent to the public space and not to what the Church does to the house. Article 3 and part two of the proposal SYRIZA: the term of the prevailing religion introduced into the Greek legal order with the Constitution of the State or State of the Ionian Islands in 1817 and was introduced in 1824 under the fear of the coming of a heterodorian monarch that may try to enforce his religion. In fact, the people of ‘44 for the term ‘predominant religion’ that Negris, a protagonist at that time, writes, "We have to interpret the prevailing religion, because we want to interpret it in our state and people who are not Orthodox, because we want scientists, we want craftsmen". After all, they had already come from the philhellenes, from the Bavarians and other tribes, in our small country. They are making sure that what is guaranteed by the maintenance of wording today in the Constitution, that is to say, the historic role of religion alone. Any fear replicated by the preservative portions of society that religious symbols or official religious celebrations will be lost from the proposed amendment - and we also remember some fragile, up to joke, about the abolition of the Christmas faction - is completely absurd. Did you see the French, also known as representatives of the so-called 'aggressive decoration', not celebrating their official religious festivities? So the "dominating religion" remains to indicate the history and remembrance of this course. They didn't put it to mark the Greek Christian community. Therefore, it is very important for us to clarify the prevailing religion. The representatives of the then PASOK prescribers, Mr Venizelos and Mr Lovers, had already taken part in the debate on the 2008 Review. In this direction, the relevant decision of the Council of State under number 660/2018, which interprets the term "predominant religion" in the light of the provision of Article 3 of the Constitution and not of Article 16(2) regarding both religious conscience. Article 16(2) refers to religious conscience. The identification of the "religious" with the "orthodox and homologous" conscience and education is quite different and is in the light of the interpretation of Article 3, which, as I said, concerns the prevailing religion, which has clear historical reasons for existence and has only conclusive content. It gives the meaning that this people in their overwhelming majority are orthodox. However, I would also like to answer some questions completely unsatisfactory for 98% and for overcrowding. We're not having a referendum, ladies and gentlemen. We are legislating and enforcing a constitution. A constitution regulating institutions, rights and freedoms. It doesn't define how the Church is run. I shall refer to the following. On the contrary, however, it does not have the meaning of the undermining of the Greek Christian ideal of dominating religion, as some have translated it. And we are coming back and should remember grim, unfortunately, moments of Greek modernity, such as national selfishness, imprisonment and dryness, covered under the cloak of "Greek Christians". Consequently, the term "predominant religion" according to SYRIZA's proposal does not constitute the recognition of official state religion and is marked by the non-religious consequence of other religions or even non-religious religions and, more generally, the enjoyment of the right to choose - free or non-religious conscience. Article 3 and third part of SYRIZA's proposal: It is out of constitution as regards the Holy Synod. However, they remain all the elements showing the historical route and the state and the relations of the State - self-headed Church - Patriarchate and the Charter of the Church and the Patriarchal Volume and the Syndicate Act of 1928. And this is because, on the dark sides of Greek history, we will unfortunately also remember some Aristinian Holy Covenants during a period of division, after years of coups and all that. So what is clearly about the Church needs to be left outside, because it is also necessary to protect this very Church. The capital of the Greek Church is a product of Greek youth, as I said. It contains progressive elements and alas to those who forget it! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. Unfortunately, we were not surprised that the New Democracy in particular did not see the need for any of the above amendments proposed by SYRIZA. It seems that her excellent and modernists have such fears of the real modernisation of the state and the deepening of democracy that see SYRIZA's proposal, which was intended to broaden both the interpretative framework and harmonise our Constitution with the current reality, as a proposal for a break-up. Obviously, it has escaped from the point of view, but also from the essence of their objectives, the use of matching basic requirements of the Constitution to modernise and genuine liberalism that crosses almost all of the European Union's democratic constitutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u191	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Pneumatiki has the floor now from New Democracy and Mr Hadjivassiliou also has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Spiritual, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u192	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's part of the individual and social rights we are discussing is perhaps that part of the Constitution which has the greatest impact on the daily lives of our citizens. I therefore believe that it is of particular interest to discuss not only the changes that need to be made, but also those which do not need, such as those we have not dared to do. A change, therefore, which has to be made and is indeed moving forward, is the constitutional guarantee of minimum guaranteed income, thus faithfully following the example of many European countries. This essential social protection net is a practical form of social solidarity, which is now gaining a strong institutional foundation. However, a change that does not need to be made in this case related to the issue of health. I would like to say that none of the problems facing health in our country today has to do with the Constitution. The aim of all of us is to create a very powerful health system that is accessible and provides quality services to citizens. So if we want to have a sustainable health system, we should basically support it in three important pillars. First of all, we have to deal with the medicine, which happened in the recent bill our government passed a few months ago. We want a medicine that is cheap or cheaper, to be the best possible and affordable for the world. The second part must be related to the structure and technological infrastructure we have in our hospitals. Even the hotel infrastructure is very important because it offers the world a pleasant stay during his hospitality and certainly improves the quality of his hospitality. But the most important is technology, which has evolved very quickly in our country, but also in the world as a whole, with the result that our country, which is somehow suffering from financial hardship in recent years, cannot compete with all this development. And realistically, if we want, we believe that this rapid technological development in the health sector cannot be supported by our social state. So here, why should we not think that there could be a private body partnership in things of this kind, as the Government has announced in its election campaign, such as when, for example, a very large hospital in our country needs a magnetic tomographer that needs maintenance, cost and staff to work? It is mathematically certain that at some point the state will not be able to cope with the maintenance of this machine. Why is it absurd to ask a private body to buy the machine, to offer it to the hospital, to take responsibility and to be paid in practice by the system, but allowing the citizen to have full access to this system, so that every taxpayer can have the right to quality health? This is a simple example. This can evolve into anything else that we care about to do with health issues. Particular attention should be paid to the region. The region is problematic and has very great difficulties - much greater than the capital - since there are significant shortcomings in both hospitals and patients' access to hospitals. It is very difficult in our time to understand that even today some patients are unable to reach a large hospital. We have said this too many times, we will have to repeat them once again. The solution is multiplier and requires an upgrade of three things: First of all, primary care, the mechanism of emergency care for patients and end of direct transportation to a suitable hospital. So we believe that then and only then will we respect every man's right to quality health. Last is the level of service provided. The necessary conditions are to offer a high level of education for workers in the hospital. This includes doctors, but also nurses. The wages and wages of these people should be streamlined so that we can escape hunger wages and decent wages and incentives for these people to respond to both educational and professional troubles. These margins have already been offered by the Constitution that we have, and under this Constitution, created the law of the ESA which now forms part of the so-called health social acquis and cannot be abolished. But that, with one fundamental difference, is that there is no reason to move to a state monopoly. So the proposed amendment to paragraph 3 of Article 21 of the Constitution seems to me more to be an ideological concern than something else in this case. In the end, it is what we did not have the courage to look at, to see to it that we change it in the current amendment to the Constitution. And I am not talking about anything but Article 16 and the establishment of private non-profit universities in our country. This is a debate which has taken place for many years and, as it seems, has been supported by a majority of citizens, but the debate has never arrived in this House. It is not one thing or another, that is to say, it is not to talk about private education or public health, and one thing to raise the other. I think that the partnership of both is very important, creating a very competitive and large environment, so that we have more choices. All this will, of course, be done with the supervision of the state, as is done in the rest of the world. In this way, our children would not have to leave, go abroad to study, teachers would not have to go to foreign universities to find jobs, and at the end we could collect people from abroad and offer our country an extra income. The solution, therefore, is most of the choices and not lower the bar against the academic level. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to be in this Review House, thus participating in the highest parliamentary work. I think that all we offer today has a very positive sign, so that we offer a better quality of life for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u193	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Hadjivassiliou has the floor and Mrs. Kefala has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Review is the prerogative of this House. Yes, we are now making major changes, but because of the previous government majority, a great opportunity has been lost for the country. A great opportunity was lost for deep areas in the Constitution that would bring Greece steps forward. Involved in the ideas of the previous government, we have - unfortunately - fallen - into a game of impression: in a turbulence between institutional anachronisms and constitutional vows unconnected with the reality of the country. What should we refer to first? In provisions that did not come or in provisions that simply came, but express wishful desires? The non-revision of Article 16 remains incomprehensible. With today's data in a world open, students move, travel, investigate, interact. We today because of SYRIZA's refusal we have the country back in the last century. Yes, the state must guarantee quality public higher education. However, it must also allow what is true throughout the world: private non-profit universities, but with a strict framework of operation. And here it divides us with SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, a structural difference of understanding. We believe that education can become a lever for growth, a lever for progress. In the small Cyprus - as most of you know - eighty thousand students are in the universities today. Half of them are foreign nationals and two thirds of Greek nationals. And the small Cyprus, in addition to increasing its GDP, has become a regional education centre, where thousands of young people are investigating and innovating. I wonder, would you mind if the Greeks were studying here? Do you mind if the Greek families spend less money? Would you mind if we had more GDP? That's what we needed. Sectors that would bring Greece among the first states of Europe, which would highlight the talents of our youth, a youth that is innovating with courage and confidence. About Article 3 now. If we proceeded to a Review on the basis of the SYRIZA proposal, then we would create two issues: first, we would send the citizens a false message about the alleged separation of State and Church, because another thing about this separation and another thing about Article 3. Secondly, we could have problems in the relations between the Church and the Ecumenical Patriarchate. Furthermore, the maintenance of Article 33 does not presuppose that the Orthodox faith be embraced by the respective President of the Republic, since Article 13 of the Constitution merely provides for religious freedom and thus ensures the necessary condition of free choice. I'm going to stand in Article 24. Unfortunately, SYRIZA's popular environmental sensitivity was exhausted too early. It is impressive to refuse to build a constitutional framework that will guarantee us against climate change. The previous majority proposed changes based on a retrogressive stateism, in changes that ignore the fact that the private economy is the engine of growth. A number of changes are made to social rights at legislative level too. Besides, who protects the weak seems in practice. Our government has, from the very beginning, voted for relief measures for everyone, even if the Constitution did not impose it. But today the minimum guaranteed income becomes a constitutional check. With the revision of Article 21, we are finally in line with the current European framework and are ensuring a minimum decent living for the people in need. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes made by the Review may not respond to all the expectations we have had, due to the inconveniences of a previous majority, but are a major step towards improvement in our long-term constitutional history. This procedure is rare and at the same time top. Every MEP must be aware of his or her responsibility, because constitutional revision is not just the change of a law, it is the change of the country's regulatory charter. And against this topical process the New Democracy has demonstrated and demonstrated seriousness and maturity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u195	We too, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-three students and students and two teachers from the High School of Atalantis Fthiotidas (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Head has the floor. Here, Mrs. Head, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the revision of the country's Charter is a leading moment in parliamentary function and an important event in our political and parliamentary history. As you know, the Constitution is not allowed to be reviewed before five years have elapsed since the previous one. In view of the fact that the Constitution is reviewed in two phases, with special increased majorities, in practice it often takes a lot more than five years. So we understand how important it is that, when we have this possibility, we move forward with all the necessary constitutional changes that will promote our country into a modern rule of law. The Constitution must be modernised, as should legislation, and be able to meet the current needs of the country and citizens. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, the ambition for a broad revision of the Constitution has been lost, because due to the majority of SYRIZA - ANELs in the previous House, it has been much more used to the ideas of the then ruling people than to resolve practical issues. And this Review House commits itself to what provisions it may review from the decisions of the previous parliament. We, therefore, will do our best to ensure that this opportunity is not lost completely, when it takes five to ten years so that a new constitutional revision can be made. In the context of the sections we are debating today, we can and should add to Article 21(1) of the Constitution an explicit provision to guarantee minimum guaranteed income. It is up to us to constitutionally guarantee the State's obligation to ensure that all citizens can live decently by means of a minimum guaranteed income system. We must protect the weak, by combating poverty and impoverishment, in a substantial and effective way. We can and we'll do it. A lot of time in today's debate took SYRIZA's proposal for the revision of Article 3 on allegedly religious neutrality. The truth is that no matter how unlike SYRIZA colleagues, Greece will always be identified with Orthodoxy. And what does religious neutrality mean? Are religious freedom and anxieties not constitutionally protected? They're protected. Then why would a state, whose historical and cultural existence and existence are identified with orthodox, separate its position? I will not only dwell on the fact that Orthodoxy is the prevailing religion in our country with more than 90%. Let us not forget, however, that the Orthodox Church was and is a pillar of social cohesion at all the difficult times in our history. The Orthodoxy is part of the daily life of the Greeks, it is a pillar, it is a part of the centuries of traditions. On the other hand, we cannot solve the problem with the state monopoly in higher education, because the previous parliamentary majority of SYRIZA, with the ideas known to all the Greek people, has ruled out the possibility of revising Article 16 of the Constitution. The New Democracy recognises and defends education as a public constitutionally protected asset. We are, however, calling for the establishment of non-state universities, as is the case throughout the modern world and always under the supervision of an independent authority, which will ensure the conditions for the high quality of the studies provided. That is what we want to do, to stop our children leaving abroad, to stop the country bleeding into human resources, students, scientists, but also foreign currency. There must be freedom of education in practice at all its levels. There can be no primary and secondary private education and there cannot be the same possibility for higher education. We have also tried to convince SYRIZA of the need to revise Article 24 of the Constitution in order to ensure constitutionally that the obligation to take measures to deal with the phenomenon of climate change and to protect forests more effectively. The left wretchs interest in environmental protection and has made it its flag, but once again it refuses to contribute to the realisation of the essential protection of the ecosystem. Why, is that so? But in order to continue to project environmental protection on its agenda and to have refused to make a practical contribution to that. Climate change needs immediate action. Given developments at global level, our Constitution should provide for measures to protect the environment and, in addition, for the management of water resources, for the strengthening of renewable energy sources and for the safeguarding of an environmental balance in any state intervention. That's what we suggested. That's all SYRIZA prevented. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to go far. I would ask, however, that I be allowed a brief reference to the Review of the Constitution in general. The reason why I do not consider this Review a total lost opportunity is because, among other things, we can resolve three institutional issues of enormous importance for the proper functioning of the democratic culture itself. Firstly, we can finally disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. The need for consensus on the election of the supreme ruler cannot be used for an early election call, and even with disastrous results, as was the last time. This has to end. The President of the Republic will be elected by the Parliament, always with priority to achieving the broadest possible consensus. But when this is not possible, it will be elected by an absolute or even simple majority. However, the smooth functioning of the society will not be disturbed. Secondly, we can guarantee in particular the vote of the deported Greeks from their residence. We would, of course, be covered by the current constitutional arrangements, but the necessary improvements must be made so that the inter-party agreement which the New Democracy Government has sought and succeeded in safeguarding constitutional law can be carried out. Because we, ladies and gentlemen, give priority to consensus, because on a top issue of democracy, such as this, a responsible government must not operate on its own. We have said so in an election, and we are doing so today. The New Democracy, as a responsible political party, will always pursue the widest possible consensus. Thirdly, we can finally abolish the unjustified privileged penal treatment of MPs and ministers, because in democracy there are no more equals. Yes, in the uninterrupted exercise of parliamentary and government duties for the sake of the proper functioning of democracy. Not in a general protection of individuals, because they hold the corresponding office. We are therefore limiting immunity only to offences committed in the course of our duties and at the same time abolishing the extinguishing period of time to the offences of the Ministers, which makes it impossible to prosecute after a short period of time. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is among the countries with the greatest constitutional history. Our Constitution is one of the world's most democratic and liberal constitutions. However, history, and if you like, the sanctity of our Constitution does not mean that it must remain the same and invariable. In a world that is constantly changing, the Constitution is not allowed to stick to the perceptions of another century. If the previous government could understand that, today we could achieve much more. I wish we had the opportunity to do so in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, too. Mrs. Jackri has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u198	Let me make a general reference to the context in which this Constitutional Review is conducted. We are in the phase, ladies and gentlemen, during which the Greek society is struggling to get out of the ten-year crisis that led to the weakening of the national state's regulatory role as a result of globalisation, which led to the reduction of state interventions in the economy by allegedly returning to the self-regulatory role of the market. A crisis, during which, in the name of the competitiveness of the Greek economy, the dominant way of regulating labour disputes through the tripartite negotiation of a state, workers and employers was effectively abolished, the public sector fell further through the privatisations of previous state-owned enterprises or organisations, with risks to the constitutional rights themselves and, in particular, to equality in the use of public services and goods, society's weakest have been badly affected by the weakening of the old mechanisms of the welfare state and the general principle of national sovereignty has been considerably reduced, despite the fact that some do not want to hear it. However, this restriction was found to be lawful by the supreme courts of our country in view of compelling reasons of public interest relating to the exceptional nature of the budgetary crisis. I must point out, of course, that the caselaw of the Supreme Special Court has, in fact, been brought to the top of the time limits which can be recognized in such exceptional circumstances. In view of the circumstances in which this debate is being held, I think that it is easy or almost self-evident to answer the question whether it is appropriate to further strengthen the constitutional principle of the social state. Unlike the view on the adequacy of the constitutional-political proposals of the social-private constitution, the crisis has demonstrated the inadequacy of these regulations to explicitly establish, firstly, an inflexible and irreversible protectionist core of social-rights in the form of the relevant acquis and, secondly, the strict delimitation of the action of social-protection actors, in order to exclude the privatisation of social-policy. The experience of the crisis therefore requires the regulatory strengthening of social rights in order to address their dispute and regulatory scope as an institutional retreat to the neoliberal tendencies of the social state. Therefore, an approach of the Constitution that excludes neoliberal policies and tends to safeguard effective mechanisms of social solidarity and social justice cannot ignore either the changing socio-political reality, that is, our transition to post-industrial society, the community of the 4th Industrial Revolution, or the need to safeguard both the regulatory density of the provisions of social content and the legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, a country's constitution is not and cannot be ideologically neutral. The ideological neutrality of the Constitution does not exist. There is the tradition of the Anglo-Saxon constitution, where the constitution is essentially non-constitutional, that is, restrictive binding, generalist and vague. There is also the tradition of the central European constitutions, which also comes under the constitution of our country, where the Constitution is the fundamental law of the State, that is, the supreme rule of law which includes the regulatory principles of lastingity, that is, regulatory principles binding by each government. The question now arises: To what extent and in what form is it appropriate to revise the constitutional provisions on social content, in order to safeguard the mechanisms of social solidarity, adapted to the new circumstances? In this context, it was considered appropriate in the SYRIZA proposal to include in Article 21(1) the constitutional safeguarding of the notion of decent living for all. In determining the standard of living, the legislator must use scientific methods and take into account the current, objective and social conditions. Special protection is granted to family, marriage, maternity, children, young people, the elderly, the disabled and the most deprived. By adding this clause to the provisions of social rights in Article 21(1), the imperative nature of social rights is strengthened, by expressly referring them to the principle of human value, which is, moreover, the womb of all social rights and the most pressing of all the obligations of the State in accordance with Article 2(1). In other words, with the proposed new wording of Article 21(1), the provisions on the social rights of the Constitution have acquired their own regulatory and social constitution the most clear expression that it has ever had in our constitutional text, as the new provision is the equivalent of Article 5(1) in terms of individual rights and nonetheless strengthens the compellingness of all individual social rights by reference to Article 2(1), which is the womb of all social rights and the primary obligation of the state. In the same direction, i.e. strengthening social rights, the other proposals for specific regulations, namely Article 21(3), on the right to health, Article 22(5) on social security, Article 22(1), (2) and (4) on equal pay regardless of age, minimum wage and collective agreements. Our proposal, therefore, took into account the experience of the destructive crisis experienced by the country and on the basis of this experience, attempts to design on the basis of the lasting conditions appropriate to a constitutional review, those impurities and limits necessary to deal with immediate corresponding crises and in the future. I have chosen, ladies and gentlemen, in this section dealing with individual and social rights, to refer to the provision in paragraph 5 of Article 16, which may not be considered a reviewer, but which has monopolized the debate yesterday and today. Indeed, it is the reason why this Constitutional Review is considered by the Assembly to be of secondary importance and in any case, as a lost opportunity. I think that the New Democracy's proposal towards setting up private universities is in the wrong direction, because I think the first thing is to strengthen the self-government character of public universities, but not at the level of the Constitution, but at the level of the joint legislature. The first is to ensure the efficiency of the public university to provide this public good of university education and scientific development and, secondly, to examine, under strict conditions, whether there is room under the roof of the self-governed public university for the use of serious public initiatives by bodies in a specific legal form that suits the public-private character of the university. In no case, therefore, are we talking about anonymous commercial law companies that will build a seat, which will serve even better purposes under Article 16 of the Constitution. The critical of the university education provided by teaching and research is its definition of a public asset, namely to ensure that everyone, if they are able, irrespective of income or other obstacles, can have access to it. I would like to ask: is there anyone in this Chamber who disagrees? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The long-standing European tradition has therefore chosen the provider of this good to be the public, precisely to ensure the right of all those who want it and who have the ability to respond to the studies of this grade, without any other discrimination - income, racial - to have universal access to it. In all European countries, therefore, contrary to what is called or believed, the vast majority of university institutions are public universities and where they are not public, are non-profit-making organisations. Due to some traditions in some countries they belong to the Church, in some other countries they have been formed in the form of legacy. A system for providing the good of higher education which enables individuals to provide this public good, that is, without an effective system of scholarships for all those who need it and not some of them, is a system that catalyses the definition of university education as a public good. And I ask again: is there anyone who wants this? As I have already said, universities are institutions within which basic research is carried out and primary knowledge is produced. It is also crucial to maintain the public nature of the research, namely the free and equal access of everyone to its findings. This will ensure that the basic research is linked to production, and that economic operators also benefit as far as their competitiveness is concerned. The exclusion from the basic investigation therefore helps to dilute its comparative advantages for the benefit of certain companies by suspending the diffusion of the investigation findings to all operators of the production process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u199	Your Honor, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u200	I have more to say about this very important debate which has taken place and which has taken place, I would say in detail, in the context of this constitutional revision. But I don't have time. I will close, because I have violated the time much, with the proposal for the revision of Article 3(1) of the Constitution, for the distinct roles of State and Church. I believe that this distinction, if it comes to the constitutional text at some point, will also be of benefit to the Church, whose spiritual role will be upgraded and emerged without being distorted by the secular pursuits of the current political context, but also of the state itself, which must at last meet the standards of the modern secular state, which does not interfere with matters of religious conscience, education and faith of citizens. The latter belong to the sphere of constitutionally protected individual freedoms and are fully protected against any state intervention or intervention. I will conclude with an observation, which I think is well known to those who know good constitutional history.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u201	Madam Colleague, please. You've been in 11 minutes. You're wrong with your colleagues, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u202	That's what I'm closing down with, Madam President. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the need and the project for a religiously neutral constitution was also a draft of the 1975 Constitution, the Karamanlis. Since then the effort has begun for the distinct roles of State and Church and for a religiously neutral state and we are fighting after three more constitutional revisions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u203	My colleague, you've been in 12 minutes. Please respect your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u204	...to move in that direction. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u205	Ms. Papakosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the need to revise the Constitution is a top parliamentary initiative, a top parliamentary determination of Parliament. When we are heading in this direction, it is considered that, firstly, institutional fatigue has occurred in some of its provisions, which no longer have the feasibility of the conditions under which the wrong provisions of previous revisions have been created, secondly, that it is necessary to adapt the Constitution to the lessons of the crisis. Such a review requires a succesful approach to prioritise the pathogens identified in political practice in relation to the application of constitutional provisions. The New Democracy's review proposal is based on three main axes: firstly, the political regularity and balance of institutions, secondly, economic stability and the country's development prospects, thirdly, social solidarity and equal opportunities for all citizens. Questions associated, such as the ones with the nation, the national identity, the religion are today at the forefront of the thought of all the democratic states of the world. This is the case nowadays more than in the years before because of the major migration flows, but also the claims of minorities for national identity. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 3 of the Constitution concerns relations between the State and the Church. The State sets out the limits within which the initiatives of the Church are developed. It is not "threatening" of course the State, nor is it possible to consult it. On the other hand, neither should the state, through its actions, "threaten" the Church. After all, the Church has always been a supporter of society in problems that it often caused the state itself. Recent example of the fact that the Church has been an eminent arrogance and smoother - we would say - the unpleasant results of the 2010 crisis that the state has, of course, created, helping our fellow citizens who have been most affected by the country's economic crisis. New Democracy's view is that this article does not require change, because relations between Church and state are quite distinct. Article 13 of the Constitution defines freedom of religious conscience as inviolable. SYRIZA's proposal for a neutrality of the State is dead, as religious freedom is guaranteed by this article. On the other hand, Article 33(2), in which the election of the President of the Republic is made, requires revision for the following reasons. In Article 31 for the electoral qualifications of the President of the Republic, no restrictions shall be imposed on religious doctrine. It is therefore necessary to harmonise Rule 33 in accordance with Rule 31, namely the provision of oath for the President-elect to be sworn in accordance with his own religion or dogma in proportion to the oath of Members referred to in Rule 59(1) and (2). Furthermore, in the Constitution itself with Article 5(1) to (5), as established and under way, it fully safeguards the protection of life, honor and freedom without any discrimination in terms of sex, identity, nationality, religion, age and sexual orientation, promotes the free development of personality, protects personal freedoms and rights as they are perceived in the modern developed world. It follows from the foregoing that the article is fully in line with European law and does not require any further revision. Dedicated Opposition, unfortunately, constantly uses the review rhetoric, undermining the characteristics of the Greek identity, religion and freedoms of the individual. Everything proposed in relation to the above rights is already guaranteed by the existing constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, with Article 22(1) work is a right and is protected by the State. It is the basic principle of equal treatment in work without discrimination or other exclusions, such as political or religious beliefs, origin, disability, etc. The existing scheme to be maintained is free collective bargaining, as well as the arbitral resolution of disputes in labour matters. Finally, if the order is abolished in cases of social and national solidarity referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article, it means that the risks of social cohesion in the State cannot be seen in depth, so that in cases of exceptional needs such as those of confiscation, war or natural disasters we can have the appropriate reflexes required by the latter. Ladies and gentlemen, the identity of the New Democracy review proposal is to bring the state to the service of citizens, the public interest, and the instability of the feeling of trust in the institutions, which unfortunately SYRIZA, during the country's four-year rule, has diligently made sure that they are destabilised. The New Democracy has been - and will be - the guardian of the institutions. Therefore, under no circumstances will it consent to revisions of the Constitution that bring the country back to anachronistic structures and perceptions of harmful to the country and its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u207	Me too, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-three students and students and two teachers from the High School of Atalantis Fthiotidas (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Ahmet Ilhan has the floor from the Change Movement. To prepare, too, Mr. Francis from the Change Movement. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Constitutions, up to the 1952 Constitution, provided an inadequate level of constitutional protection to religious freedom, due to the special relationship of the Greek state with the Orthodox Eastern Church, which it recognised as already dominated by the constitutions of nationalism. The development from the mere religious tolerance of the state to full protection of religious freedom has been slow. The 1975 Review appeared at this level, which liberalised matters relating to religious freedom. This was mainly the case during the then preparatory process of the different nature of the rule of relations between the State and the Church and the protection of religious freedom with the crucial regulatory provision of Article 13 of the Constitution. At this point I would like to applaud the contribution of Mr. Andreas Loverdou, who, by applying Article 13 as Minister of Education, has introduced to the House L.4301/2014 by which the religious communities in Greece were organized and the practice of worshiping all known religions in Greece has been protected. Thus, religious freedom is protected in law and in practice and not with stereotypes. Ladies and gentlemen, the prevalence of religious equality and the full protection of religious freedom have allowed the multiculturality of states, which is translated into coexistence and coexistence of different doctrines along with atheists and peoples. However, the existence of a large number of heterosexual citizens within the European continent and in our country makes the need to protect religious freedom even more urgent. For anyone who has responsibility for establishing may also have responsibility for discounting and reducing, especially in the event of a conflict of national homogeneity as religious homogeneity and religious pluralism as a confiscation of religious freedom. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ensures the rights of minorities to defend their specific identity, the unique features that distinguish them from the other members of the human family. This is, in fact, the first sincere effort in the history of International Law to secure a universal right. In relation to the protection of religious integrity now in Greece, our country, although it has already accepted, since mid-1980, the right to individual recourse to the Strasbourg courts, continues on several occasions to deny diversity in religion, which many have seen in the European Court of Human Rights. The very close relationship between the Greek state and the Orthodox Church, as well as the intense migratory flow of recent years, have a catalytic effect on the formation of this negative result. The right of religious associations to self-determination and the duty of our country to abstain from interventions in their internal organization, the ECHR, the Court of Human Rights, in many cases, as well as that of the religious self-determination of the Muslim minority in Thrace in the Serif case against Greece. At this point, the court expressed an interesting case-law concerning the communities themselves, as associations and bodies of rights, worthy of self-protecting against State intervention. I am referring specifically to two presidential decrees by the former Minister of Education, Mr Gavroglou, which have undermined the value of self-determination against state intervention in relation to the model of administration of the mushrooms of Thrace, pretext of modernising them, creating a sense of deep intervention by the state in the operation of a well-known and recognised religion in our country. Furthermore, with regard to the nature of the right, religious freedom is sometimes founded as a repository, i.e. a claim for abstention of the State, which is obliged not to hinder or impede, otherwise, the exercise of the right and sometimes as a positive situation, which means that it creates a claim for the provision of the State, which is obliged to facilitate the incomplete and effective exercise of the right. After all, the preservation of religious autonomy within the framework of all legitimacy - always! - the protection of the language and the promotion of an advanced democratic and liberated, by national prejudices, of an educational system, is the aim of a modern European state. These are major issues and are directly linked to the protection of rights, but also the very nature of its existence. If, however, we really want to strengthen the constitutional safeguarding of religious freedom, we propose, as a Movement of Change, an addition of an interpretative statement in Article 3, which will expressly say that the reference to prevailing religion does not doubt the distinct role of State and Church and is not raised in Article 13(1), which would really solve the problem. And that's our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to say that it is necessary to make it clear in every way that in our country religious freedom is constitutionally guaranteed. Furthermore, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which Greece has ratified and enacted its domestic law, with superlegislative power, in fact, leave no room for other misinterpretations. But, through constitutionally regulated religious freedom, there is also the right to religious equality, i.e. equal treatment, regardless of religious beliefs, which also arises from the 'principle of equality', with which it is crucified. But for all this to apply, religious freedom must be specialised in practice daily. A series of laws and regulations are required, which state institutions and government machinery are required to implement. In this area, too, there are still problems which cannot be degraded or justified superficially. In a rule of law, all citizens must feel absolutely equal. And if some do not feel that, it is the state's duty and obligation to go into their problems, especially when it comes to the application of individual rights and, indeed, religious freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Frangidis now has the floor from the Change Movement, and immediately afterwards Mr. Akiupis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u210	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is the basis of a democratic state and the statute of the Charter. It illustrates the nature and substance of the institutions. It describes the rights and obligations of citizens. It sets rules, shapes our society, institutionalizes our democracy. Therefore, the Revision of the Constitution is not a technocratic process involving qualified lawyers, but it is a particular and topical one, I would say, legal but also political process, which requires the consent of all the forces of the country. It is a matter of dimensions and impacts at political level, but also at historical and social level. At the same time, it has time of philosophical. It is also perhaps the only case for which it is not a matter of party discipline. Each of us is free to express his views on the matter, according to what he has to say and his convictions. First of all, when we talk about a constitutional review, we must bear in mind the following: firstly, that as a Member State of the European Union and the world community, we have European and international restrictions. Secondly, it is dangerous to dilute constitutional populism. And thirdly, it is dangerous to use the Constitution as a tool for party purposes. With a sense of responsibility and the importance of the project, we were the first party to point out the need to revise the constitution. We have formulated clear and brave proposals aimed at a modern constitution that meets the challenges and the data of our time, a constitution that will be progressive, that will go beyond the established formalisms, leaving oxygen to breathe in the political life of the country and in parliament and in reverse party rule. However, the Constitutional Review had to be a "licensed shirt", a victim of SYRIZA and New Democracy's manufactured polarization and their own self-serving party settlements. This is how the meaning and historical opportunity for substantial and necessary areas, which the Change Movement contained in its proposals, were lost. This Review will remain characteristic as "the review of lost opportunities". Lost opportunity is that we are not going to revise Article 16(5), which would allow us to institutionalise the operation of private non-profit universities. The obsolete perceptions, however, of the ideas, the party and syndicating purposes of the previous SYRIZA government have become an obstacle to modernising our educational model, which would, at the same time, contribute to boosting our economy, but also to upgrading public education in the end, through the development of healthy competition. We have not been able to assimilate the example of Cyprus, which has stimulated education not only in the field of educational activities, but also in economic and business. We have also accordingly lost opportunities to address constitutional dysfunctions concerning administration, justice, the political system, self-government, economic governance. In the end, the public is being troubled as a political and economic subject. As far as the provisions on individual and social rights are concerned, this is undoubtedly the heart of the Constitution. They are directly related to social democracy, which complements political democracy and together operate in the direction of alleviating social inequalities. The strengthening of these rights emphasises the anthropocentric nature of the Constitution. The previous government has proposed to enrich some constitutional provisions on social rights. We had voted for the seven of these nine proposals. Unfortunately, the Conservation of the New Democracy has not allowed it to go far enough until the end of this process. With Article 21(1) and with the minimum guaranteed income we agree, because it contributes to the protection of the social fabric and strengthens social cohesion. We have, however, proposed something even more complete. We have proposed that the minimum standard of living be explicitly guaranteed for all citizens, a concept that is not limited to the minimum guaranteed income, but is extended to cover all social needs. At the same time, we have also formulated the need for free and undivided access for all to social goods. We have accordingly proposed an addition to Article 25 for new technologies in relation to the protection of human rights and a fair distribution of the wealth produced, but without success. In relation to rights, our country has one of the most comprehensive constitutions at European level, a common confession to our great constitutionalists. However, it is true that in the years of the crisis, social rights have been found in the 'circuit' as they are seen as an obstacle to business gains and to the commercialisation of social goods and services. The most vulnerable economic citizens tend to marginalize socially. The authority in question tends to apply the content of rights as it sees fit and the size that the economic situation and the financial possibilities allow it to do so. At the same time, a systematic effort is being made to weaken constitutional structures, such as collective action at the workplace with a view to encouraging employers and reducing social benefits. It is our duty to strengthen and protect social rights. After all, our Constitution has been doing this since 2001. The most urgent need is for this to be pursued in a legislative, political and practical manner. Recently, unfortunately, we have seen the Government of New Democracy under the provisions of the development bill weakening collective bargaining on the pretext of growth. The fact is that in Greece the "great patient" is the social state and the way it functions systemically. We're a country that's demographically ageing. So we spend a lot on pensions and health while we don't have a good predictive basis. At the same time, we have a problem in budgetary matters, we do not have a strong insurance system. We therefore need to find resources. And all these are issues that need to be resolved. In conclusion, when we talk about social rights, there is a risk of spreading towards constitutional populism, but he is also unnecessarily and dangerous. Unfortunately, in recent years, the SYRIZA government has moved marginally in this direction. To sum up, I should like to put it to close: Unfortunately, this is a lost opportunity for effective constitutional revision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The next speaker is Mr Akipas from New Democracy and immediately after Mrs Lykoulis from the Change Movement. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the provision of Article 3 of the Constitution comes from the provision of Article 1 of the earlier constitutional texts of Greece. The constitutional legislature, moreover, follows closely the constitutional tradition of the place. So, looking into our past, we will see that the first constitutional texts of the revolutionary Greek nation were voted on in the name of the Trinity god. “The name of the Holy Trinity and indivisible” was written in the preamble to the Constitution of Epidaurus in 1822. This invocation is repeated in all subsequent constitutions. The Constitutions of the Ionian Islands were not of course an exception. Both in the Constitution of 1803 and in that of 1817, Orthodoxy is mentioned as a dominant religion. Colleagues of counterpopulation, I wonder what scares you and causes you to be vain in listening to the term 'dominated religion'. Yes, in Greece it was a dominant religion and it was that of the Eastern Orthodox Church and that is because the vast majority of citizens are Christian Orthodox Greeks. As the absolutely presided over in the constitutional theory, Article 3 states nothing but the historical and time-consuming nature of the country's founding stone. In other words, Article 3 is only an expression of the tradition and history of Greek constitutionalism. Our people have, after all, identified their national identity based on Orthodoxy. So Orthodoxy is only intertwined with the narrow core of the Greek nation and as much as it seeks to mislead the Greek people, the opposition, playing demagogic and shadowy games, will not change. Despite the attempt of counter-population to make us think that we will become more progressive, more modern, changing the letter of Article 3, that is not going to happen. The Greek Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, is full and fully armored to ensure the rights and freedoms of Greek citizens. As far as the provision in paragraph 3 is concerned, things are simple. In the constitutional theory, it is clear from Article 3 and the provision of Article 13 that the safeguarding of religious freedom is manifestly apparent. The Greek Constitution does not prevent religious beliefs from being manifested, since there is the umbrella of protection under Article 13. So, gentlemen, your insistence in the direction of amending the relevant provision of Article 3, that is, in order to ensure that - according to you - neutralist of the Greek state is obviously lame. Of course, I fully understand your need to satisfy or mislead your left audience in an attempt to maintain it. Your relationships with the Church, I'd say, they're a little weird, confused. I'm going to mention a few of the many confused ones. We do not forget that you used the Church whenever you were helping your election and election purposes. A year ago we all remember the meeting you had with the Archbishop, Mr. Jerony, where you arrived at fifteen points. Amongst this was the wages paid by the clergy, which, as we all know, is made by the state. There you tried to agree that you would stop paying the clergy, but you would see it in subsidies. On the other hand, if there were any increases in civil servants, you would also increase the subsidy. No one knew what you were trying to change here. Explain to us. So it would change the relationship between the State and the Church? From that point on, you had started to denote your relations with the Church by election, going to the Vatican, throwing pigeons to the Theophanes, going to Mount Athos and so on. After the elections, you continued it. On January 26, 2015, the then Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras shortly before he was sworn to the Archdiocese to meet Mr. Jerome to get his wish, while last January he again gave the surprise and reactions, as he passed the gates of the Archdiocese to inform the Archbishop of the scout before he even informed the parties. Mr Gabroglou told us at some point that the priests will be fully, transparent and unequivocal in terms of wages, pensions and care issues. If you're confused, what do you want and open up these issues? You can't satisfy both audiences. You have to understand it. We've made that clear, so we don't get confused. In conclusion, I would like to stress that whether many or not Orthodoxy is part of our national identity. After every difficult historical juncture the peoples beyond weakened morals also have the need to look back, to remember their identity. Only then can they stand on their feet, become competitive again on the international arena. So just so the Greeks, now more than ever and after the end of the economic crisis, we will have to look back at our identity, remember who we are and move forward. I don't know if what you hear is outdated, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, but in the ears of the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens, I'm sure they don't sound that way. After all, the Greek people have clearly given this government the mandate to revise the articles you have proposed, knowing fully what our positions are on this issue, but what yours are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u213	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Lykoulis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was also saying in my position yesterday that the greatest share of responsibility for the fact that these days the country, the political system and, ultimately, all Greeks and Greek women are losing a historic opportunity for key areas in the charter, the soul of the culture, the basis of all the other legislation, the Constitution, has political responsibility and responsibility: SYRIZA. Secondly, it also has a direct partner: the New Democracy. Both parties, you see - and I am explaining - on the basis of a false polarization, which, however, served their indiscriminate alteration in power, in a climate of classification, backwardness and tacticalism, did everything they could to avoid responding and therefore transfer to the supreme institutional level the racing questions of an ever-expanding society, which often seems to be beyond them. The SYRIZA acted, invoking a false forward-looking agenda, which in many cases did not even succeed in touching, how much more to accomplish, despite the fact that he ruled four and a half years and even as he aspires, as he campaigns to all tons, at all lengths and backs, to be the protagonist in the field of Central Left. I'll tell the popular, you've got a lot of bread to eat. Because it is not only enough to want you to be the protagonist in another completely distinct political space, the social democracy of the measure, but you must also be able to adapt, even in fact, to its agenda, that is to say on our agenda. Because activism and basic political assumptions in the urban democratic culture do not go together, ladies and gentlemen, nor misguided and market-driven behaviours, even within Parliament, can go hand in hand with the measure that characterises our own area. On the other hand, you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, have unfortunately lost your chance last year, as a forceful opposition, to make a positive contribution to the constitutional review process simply because you are - and you confess it to all tons - a conservative party and any institutional development of a framework is - and frightens you - hostile to what you believe in. Despite the confessed reformal profile of your current leadership, your political and electoral base, unfortunately, remains strictly conservative. It reminds me that your President-in-Office many times - and our Prime Minister now - is trying to a body that cannot accept a graft from putting it on the table, but that is not done and rejects it. That's the way things go, the story goes on. We have a different path and a different attitude to things. The Change Movement once again was not afraid to take responsibility and greater than we were. We have therefore tabled openly, with an open mind and an offer in the public debate, proposals which we consider to be in line with modern social demands, proposals that are evolving, without scaring society, in a progressive direction, as I said before. So in relation to Article 3 and the relations between the Church and State, against the old cutting and demagogic ritual of SYRIZA - from which, of course, he later retreated, fearing the political cost - and with the long attitude of the New Republic of 'all is going well' and 'Let it all be as it is', we have only responded to the institutions. We responded modestly, we responded with faith in the historical legacy recommended by the Orthodox Church for our homeland, with a sense of historical weight, historical heritage and our own identity. We therefore proposed adding at the end of Article 3 an interpretative statement, which says that reference to the prevailing religion does not doubt the distinct role of State and Church and does not oppose Article 13(1), while deleting paragraph 3 of that article. Because we do not in any way consider that the designation of the Eastern Orthodox Church of Christ to be the predominant one should be changed, simply because it is the predominant one! It is undeniable that this distinction, therefore, has a symbolic character. But it certainly concerns the vast majority of Greek citizens. You tried to question it. You failed. Furthermore, we should remember that religious freedom is protected in Article 13(1) of the Constitution, which is not reviewed and which is specifically regulated by formal law. In fact, our rapporteur, Andreas Loverdes, five years ago, reminded me of the key position of the Minister of Education and Religion - and we are very proud of this - recommended to Parliament a law, namely Law No.4301/2014, in which the religious communities in Greece were organized and protected the worship of all known religions in the country. So we do, so we understand things. So she doesn't want any trouble, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Take lessons. It wants a way, it wants determination and it wants mainly efficiency. Alas, if the Charter of the country became a barricade of vague slogans, such as the falsification that has concerned us so long with the separation of State and Church, the slogans of division of society, not the composition of the different opinions that make it up. And in the end, a beautiful, slow move, delightful in all the details of cubism, i.e. a "collutant" holoba, according to the popularity. I move on to the similar theme of the religious or political oath of the President of the Republic and other state actors. I wonder why? In Articles 33, 59(1) and 2 we insist on today's practice, which is both democratic and synthetic, but which responds to the truth itself. We insist that the oath be given diligently, whether religiously or politically. The imposition of the political oath, not only, does not find us in agreement, but at the same time, we believe that only unnecessary polarization will result in a society. If nothing else, we have had real or less real divisions in recent years. So let us not look for such a reason and stop throwing oil into the fire. Let me remind you here that the New Democracy, which, although it had also proposed the divorcing oath - and neither the rapporteur nor anyone else explains it - then retreated from its original position. Why? And if you did that in the name of your confessed faith, I would at least respect it. Unfortunately, however, everything shows that it is a classic attempt to vote conservative voters. Finally, however, it is at the expense of users of practices. Especially the lawyers, how do you feel true - I wonder - after that? Definitely not well. The contradictions, then, do not hide with anything. Of course, I am going to make a final comment, Madam President - and I shall conclude - on Article 21(1) and on the addition of a subparagraph supplementing the provision that the State ensures that all citizens enjoy decent living conditions by means of a minimum guaranteed income system. We could only be positive about this wording. Our movement has had an early very central role in the development of the public debate on this issue. Our State Secretary, Vassilis Kegeroglu, worked out and executed the first implementation of the minimum guaranteed income, based on the experience gained throughout the period of the social and economic crisis. Of course, the whole effort has always been in agreement with the modern scientific concepts of creating an effective and social rule of law. So that's it. We've got a long way ahead of us. Our universal bet is a serious new political concept and the new form that the modern social state requires. Ladies and gentlemen, the work is changing, the stratification of the social classes is changing. They cannot also change the basic features of the social model, with the minimum guaranteed income henceforth being the basis for a grid of targeted and combined social measures. I'm sure we won't change the world. We will certainly not change life with it alone, but we will change the culture of politics and legitimisation in general and open a path. But do we really have the magnanimity, the streets we open in here, to be ready not to walk them, but the next ones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Sukoulis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called here, in plenary session of the Greek Parliament, to complete the revision process of the constitutional text. It is a constitutional review of a small quantity, as the President of Parliament rightly described. We are called upon to manage in the best possible way another effort by the previous government to subjugate constitutional superiority to small political terrain through barren communication fireworks. By thus highlighting the possibility of substantial interventions and improvements to the constitutional rule in a dangerous game of indirect victimisation of the Constitution itself due to the sufferings of the economic crisis, which has shaken the country over the last decade. SYRIZA's inability to legislate its endless promise turned constitutional review into a new field of easy ideological platform, irresponsible populism and political work. Omissioning deliberately that the Constitution has endured. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to imagine together what it would mean if Mr Tsipras' policy were to lead us to uncomplicated bankruptcy. What would be practically necessary to implement the constitutional rule. I intend to focus today solely on Article 21(1), which concerns, for the first time, the concept of minimum guaranteed income on a proposal from the New Democracy. For me, it is an important step not only because the concept of minimum guaranteed income now receives constitutional protection and therefore superiority, placing it at the core of social rights, but mainly because it introduces a provision that explicitly incorporates the concentrated political and economic experience of the crisis that has scourged the country over the last decade. Because, from the outset, it has been apparent that strengthening the regulatory content is, in the end, necessary in certain fundamental constitutional parameters, particularly relating to the times of crisis. This could work so self-bindingly and, if you want to prevent - I appreciate and rewardingly - for the legislator, creating an additional constitutional regulatory safety net. In this case, the minimum guaranteed income, however much as some consider to be surplus such an explicit provision, I believe that it lays the foundations in a more guaranteed constitutional framework for the creation of a model of social welfare and protection of the individual and the family. It lays the foundations for a model that is modern, functional and institutionally protected to provide the necessary security differences, in a social rule of law, strong and effective. Prevent from healing. So here we have a provision which prejudges constitutional prevention from legislative treatment. And the question is: Indeed, a minimum guaranteed income system is a social right, which deserves to be placed at the centre of the operation of the social state, or is it a trap of poverty, as SYRIZA described in 2012? Ladies and gentlemen, we must be honest in order to regain social confidence. The citizens of the country were found in the cyclone of poverty and tolerance, not as a result of their individual actions, but dominantly as a result of failed guidance by the political system. Much of the citizens found themselves out of the labour market, outside social security, and even within a very short period of time, with the well-known results for social cohesion. On the basis of this undeniable need, the 2012 government decided to apply pilot projects and then extend a fire-fighting measure to extreme poverty phenomena. This measure relieved the world, albeit limited, at a very difficult time. And he relieved, because he supported the citizens where the crisis hit them, in income. Today we have to show that in the period of economic and social recovery and on the basis of the earlier traumatic experience of the economic crisis, we can create a rule of law, innovative, modern and social, with multiple security nets for citizens, placing the minimum guaranteed income in the centre of social welfare policies. Of course, we are not going to accept a passive role for the minimum guaranteed income, which is and must be of a transitional nature, but we will accompany it with a grid of policies relating to employment, health care, housing and even psychological support, helping to ensure a decent living for the individual and the family. Our aim is to enable the citizens who have been in this difficult position to return to a state of creation and active participation in society. Because social exclusion is not a conscientious choice. I wish there was no need to resort to very high social protection measures. We and the government at this transitional stage are building up the development conditions so that together with the citizens we can build up the prospects that will limit this need. At the same time, we show in practice that we are not neglected, that there should be provision, which is now turning into a constitutional check, not to allow the country and the citizens to be reunited at the point where they have been found in recent years. Citizens should now feel security that their state is protecting them as they are due and will be next to them to be able to cope with the difficulties that may arise. That is the substance and spirit of the Constitution. In conclusion, I would like to invite all the opposition parties and despite the political criticism they have made of them, to show the necessary consensus, as shown by the Constitution itself, so that we can respond to the social demand for national understanding. The minimum guaranteed income is offered to pass a strong message that the political system understands, assumes its responsibilities and, above all, has the political potential to evolve. Now's the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, my colleague. I will now give the floor to Mr. Mulkiotis from the Change Movement and then the special speaker, Mr. Loverdos, will take the floor for five minutes. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country's Charter, the Constitution, is the compass for the functioning of institutions, the rule of law and the guarantee of citizens of all kinds of arbitrary nature. His review is at the core of democracy and he should be treated as a process that he, in national self-awareness, should look at in a time of history. Today, more than ever, we need to protect the dignity of citizens, the credibility of the institutions and the honour of the political world, the reversal of the decades of decline. The Constitutional Review may not obey short-term priorities. It has to do with historical experience and national patriotic duty. The Constitution must be politically neutral and consensual, based on the values and principles of liberal democracy. We are talking today about provisions of the second section of the provisions to be revised. All these provisions relate to individual rights, which belong to the core of each Constitution, and to our own, and to the structure and, above all, to their respect, in all cases, to the democratic quality of the country. In Greece we have a social rule of law, we have a level of protection of social rights, we have a very strong'social acquis'. The'social acquis' is not an absolute one, because the joint legislature must have a margin of discretion on the basis of the economic situation and the financial possibilities. So what is the problem of the social state in Greece? It is what it is all over Europe. Europe is a social Europe. Without a social state there is no European identity, there are no fundamental advantages to European political and institutional culture. But there is a multiple crisis in the European social state. It is a demographic crisis, as in Greece, and a budget. Furthermore, we, as a country, had fundamental imbalances, systemic imbalances in the social state. We have a social state which primarily costs pensions, yes, it costs health assurance, but there is no advantageous pillar for benefits, which does not lead to a significant reduction in the level of poverty following the transfer payments. Is this to be done by Constitution? Of course not. This is a matter of coordinated painful policies that will take the form of a law within the current, adequate framework of the Constitution, but also based on the lessons of the ten-year economic and budgetary crisis. In the Greek Constitution, especially after the 2001 Review, the level of protection of rights is satisfactory and the changes that would have a particular value would have been those that incorporated "new rights" and, above all, related to developments in the global economy and technology, and of course, ladies and gentlemen, not with any changes of practical importance to 'classical' rights. Our resignation has proposed the revision of thirty-three articles in the Constitution. We have also had human rights among them. In Article 25, which refers to the principles of the social rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights, we have proposed adding a special amendment to the effects of artificial intelligence and the fourth industrial revolution, both to safeguarding and protecting human rights and to a fair social distribution of the wealth produced. The main objective of the amendment - intervention - was the added value and wealth produced by the technological revolution, not only by the elites who possess the information and algorithms of the applications, but also, as far as possible, obtain it from society as a whole. In addition, the wealth generated was fairly distributed to all States not only in tax havens, where the head office of the technological pools is usually located. In this direction, the European Commission and Parliament have already taken action with regulatory and control initiatives both dissuasive and punishing levels for technological collisions. In essence, this would constitute a new radical progressive, philosophical, ideological and political response to globalisation and modern capitalism. Instead of these, the now Professional Opposition found more ‘progressive’ and timely to deal with the review of Article 25(3) of the abuse of rights, in particular by removing the prohibition on the abuse of a right. This provision is crucial and cannot be removed because it has supported the weighting of conflicting rights, their harmonisation and democracy itself. Nor is it possible to invoke the expression 'not permitted' in Article 25(3) to apply Article 281 of the Civil Code as a general clause on individual rights. Because these are completely disparate cases: the provision of the Civil Code seeks to protect private interests, (particularly assets) from abuse of other, also private rights, so as to protect, on the presumption, the weakest part of the exploitation of the most powerful. Conversely, the provision of Article 25(3) of the Constitution seeks to protect the by definition and clearly stronger party, namely, the State authority, from exercising rights, which also tend by definition, to protect authority over it. Therefore, any direct or indirect legislative, administrative or judicial filling and specificisation of the term ‘not permitted’, which would result in any form of suspension or deprivation of the exercise of an individual right, would clearly be unconstitutional. Because the Constitution does not already provide for any other case of suspension of constitutional protection of individual rights, except that of Article 48. Nor is it permitted, with the current wording, to introduce exceptions or derogations from their constitutionally guaranteed protection. Moreover, such exceptions or derogations would also be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. This provision is therefore ‘incomplete’. It is lex imperfecta and does not involve sanctions, it is simply 'guidelines' to fill the meaning and interpretation of Article 5(1), 'if it does not insult the rights of others and violates the Constitution or good manners'. Ladies and gentlemen, we have called for the practical protection of the dignity of citizens by establishing a guaranteed standard of living, but also for the introduction of a provision that special law lays down the procedure and the conditions for obtaining housing assistance to those who are deprived of or resident inadequately. This is a guiding provision. It is more wishful, but symbolically useful and charged in particular 'as a lesson of crisis'. This provision, however, could even have the most powerful progressive content, insisting that all citizens legally live in Greece and not only Greek citizens. In Article 21(3) and (7) the former Professional Opposition has still proposed the "closing" of the public health system (paragraph 3) and public control, basic social goods (paragraph 7), which do not leave the necessary flexibility to regulate public and private relations to the legislator. I would like to remind you that both issues, health and social goods, the PASOK governments, were the ones that did not act and did not remain in the words. They adopted them and stayed in history. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Rule 22 - and I conclude, Mr President - a number of changes have also been proposed from the previous House. Our party has committed itself to continuing to support the world of work by fully guaranteeing the right to free collective bargaining, so that the Minister concerned does not define minimum wages and unilateral recourse to arbitration. Article 22(5), as it is today, is indeed poor in wording. Supplements are required because the joint legislature cannot be completely unblocked when it establishes the insurance system. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous House, the revision of Article 5(2) was proposed despite the direction of guaranteeing freedom without discrimination of sex, identity and sexual orientation, now from ethnic, race, language, religious or political beliefs. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] There was a whole debate with conservative, fearful voices opposed to this review. These logics hurt the free development of personality and personal freedom. This provision, although guiding - and not directly applying a provision - could serve as a basis for creating a more protective case-law of the courts on equality. It was progressive in nature and is linked to modern issues and forms of rights. In such changes concerning human rights, as we have done for the cohabitation pact, the recognition of gender identity, assumption, we are responsible for civil society, which we continue to stand by as a progressive parade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u219	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u220	I said before two other colleagues that the Conference of Presidents did not anticipate. We can, however, because we have begun and debated provisions, we can take the floor for a few minutes, - for five minutes, we said - whoever wants it. We must not, however, find it as an opportunity to intervene long enough and stop the flow of Members' placement. I would like to inform the House that we have already made conciliation on the wording of the articles which, in the end, seem to have been revised. And we are on a good path - if not all of us, at least some of the rapporteurs - to present final common provisions. I take the floor, however, by making use of this possibility - which the rapporteurs have agreed to - to make a comment on what Mrs Sis Anagnostopoulou said about the question I raised this morning before many of my fellow Members, about the explanation to be given by the Acoustic Opposition, because in the previous House speaking, saying and devoting - as I support - on religious freedom, he left out of the scope of the revision Article 16(2), which is the heart of case law - with which we do not agree - of the Council of State and which restricts freedom in the field of mobile education. I put the question, and I am very keen indeed. And the answer given by the special rapporteur on the part of Officerial Representation is that firstly Article 3 is the most important and not Article 16(2) on this matter. And secondly, he said that they were afraid that Article 16 would be included in their proposal to slip the revision of Article 16(5), which concerns universities. For the first time, to say this, it means that my colleague ignores the case law of the Council of State 2018-2019. There it is quite obvious that the heart of constitutional regulation, which produces this negative case-law, is Article 16(2) on freedom of religion in education. It's undeniable. And arguments put forward by Article 3, I would like to say that Article 3 is not about freedom of religion. It's not about individual rights. A symbolism is, in keeping with theory and the majority of jurisprudence, a symbolism. So it's wrong, it's the first answer. But the second one's wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, it is undeniable. There's no congressman who tells you otherwise. If the House proposing the revision is committed to something, it is in the articles and paragraphs of the provisions under review. When we say Article 16(2), we mean paragraph 2 and not paragraph 5. And there is no possibility, but there is no possibility of transferring the revision to Article 16(5). If they were right and if there were such a possibility from Article 110, and if their arguments were correct, then since we also have 101A of the Constitution, that is to say, the independent authorities, let us add to the independent control authority that respects the conditions for the creation of non-governmental universities! But that's not happening. Is it possible to support a Member today such a version? The past majority is mistaken and mistaken in such a way that it is justified by the interventions and criticisms of hypocrisy. Finally, Mr President, in order to conclude this small speech, I would like to refer to the New Democracy, many of whose Members - thankfully I think not her rapporteur - make use of the term 'neutral religious state'. What happened? Did SYRIZA beat you by imposing you his words? What does "neutralist" mean? Where did they find that word? If they want to make such a speech, they must speak of a state of religious neutrality. Listen to a neutral state! Mr President, you were not here - that is my last sentence - but the former President of Parliament in a political and truly decent manner criticised my speech this morning when I described the 2015 referendum as illegal and incorrect. It seems to me that the use of these terms by me in the committee responsible has been made with the permission that the committee gives, while the plenary is a different step. Mr President, this debate will take place tomorrow. However, I urge him now to say that all the arguments I have, which are undeniably arguments in the field of constitutional law science, judge and evaluate this referendum not as an error, but as an error to an exaggerated degree and not as an illegal, but as an illegal one. But the debate will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Javarras has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Three points I wanted to raise in my denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u223	How is it possible to start secondarys at this point?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u224	Monsieur Baroness, it's agreed. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u225	By who?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u226	Right now? Appropriately?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u227	It's agreed before. Monsieur Baroness, please calm down. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u228	I'm calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u229	Sit down, don't get upset. Mr. Javarras will be speaking now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u230	Procedurally, it is best to put us at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u231	Procedurally, we don't know when to choose. Each party can choose whenever it wants. Do you want to end up? I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u232	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u234	In any case - I do not know what Mr Katrugalo has done in this way - but I am going to be here until the end of the procedure, and after hearing from my colleague Mr Katrugalo that he wants to have a second word, I will answer lastly after listening to all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u235	Thank you. Mr. Catrugale, will you be seconded now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I would suggest that you allow me to speak for two minutes only on a point raised by Mr Lovers at the end of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u237	Let go of it then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Catrugale, do you want a point of order or a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u239	My point of order, Mr President, is that we should all put an end to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u240	That's not what happened with Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u241	Because that shows respect for the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u242	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u243	I want you to allow me for a minute only to address a point raised by Mr Lovers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u244	So you don't keep it yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u245	It was a clear distinction I made. The President accepted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u246	Please, he's just asked for a minute. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u247	This is a matter that I have raised and I must make it clear again. I also said to the committee, and now that if other parties had accepted, in particular the New Democracy and the Movement of Change, the constitutionally correct, that what we agree in the first House, in the proposing one, would be binding on the direction and the Revision, we would obviously have greater freedom of discussion as well as on the revision of Article 16 and on the revision of Article 24. Mr Loverdos is right to say that the Constitution at its right reading does not allow for the extension to other provisions than those laid down by the House. I will remind him, however, and as a trustworthy man, a concrete example that has already been attempted in violation of the Constitution. We have proposed that a subparagraph should be added, so that nothing should be changed in relation to the wording of Article 51(1), but it has been said that, because the debate has been opened, although we have again spoken of the addition of a subparagraph, the minimum majority with which the electoral law could apply since the next elections. That is precisely because we did not have to deal with what the Constitution says - the Constitution says what we and it protected us from the policing possibilities - but we had to deal with cases of misinterpretation and distortion of the Constitution, which is why we did not want to open up provisions that we thought could be exploited in Article 16 and Article 24.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. I am honoured that my fellow Members have spoken before me. It's a little reward for the delay they've suffered. The State of Religious neutrality, ladies and gentlemen, has not appeared to be lightning in an ethos, nor is it an invention of the SYRIZA and the radical forces of the Left and any labels you want to give to the political - ideological current that we express. This state was the result of a bloody, painful adventure in Europe, which for almost a century had been slaughtered in religious wars. The phrase "Night Bartholomew", "Sicilian Esperian" refers precisely to this kind of slaughter between Catholics, protesting, etc. So those people who then had the fates of society in their hands came to the mere thought that if we want as a society to take a step forward, the state's management mechanism must not be religious, be outside religious conflicts. Thus, the conception of the religiously neutral state has emerged. I would remind you that since our study at university headquarters we have known that, just after the solution to this problem in the feudal regimes, the 'cuius regio, euius religio', 'whose authority, he and dogma prevailed', prevailed. In other words, the feudal ruled what religious regime would prevail in his feud. These are the conditions in which the idea of a religiously neutral state has evolved, to adopt the wording of Mr Loverdos. Newness has been late in our country for a century. And the religious dimension is an identity element in the period of addiction. There may not have been a state in the present sense, but we were defined as the status of the genus, the'mileet' that the Turks say. And the genus was primarily determined by its religious quality, the Christian Orthodox vis-à-vis the Muslims, and secondly, or even equal to the language. Thus, the need for us to have clearly on the part of our Charter the preservation of the sovereign religious doctrine in the country. With the arrangements we have, be careful to see what you are doing, ladies of the majority. Religious faith by individual right is shaped into a public obligation and it mutates, parades, distorts faith that is a personal relationship with the divine and the obsession and is an individual attitude that determines to each his code of values. In this way the Church becomes an ex-institutional factor without being subjected to the citizens' judgement and claims for itself a role of national consciousness outside social and political processes. So he judges that we as a people exceed the limits when choosing them. It therefore considers that we as a society are not associated with what is the Greek and the Church defines it as genuine and forceful, what constitutes Hellenism, and not the majority of the Greek people with its political and ideological choices. In my view, Mr Kamine developed them very well in the committee that we were, and in the capacity of the Citizens' Co-rapporteur and as Mayor of Athens, experienced the dramatic interventions of the Church in the decisions of the state. Here we have, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, an obvious diversion, for which you need to take a position, and with which you need to look at your historical tradition and conclude, because it is not possible for a law that provides for the destruction of the dead not to be put into effect, because the metropolitan inhabited by means - not to describe them...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u250	On the basis of this constitution?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u251	No, I'm not talking about that, Mr. Rapporteur, you know that. I am talking about the special weight you want to give to the Church which does not belong to a newly established Western European state. Finally, I would like to say this, ladies and gentlemen: our religious tradition is a great heritage of our nation, our generation. It is the tradition itself, it is the language of the Gospels, it is the member, and we must not omit the excellent musical tradition of the Orthodox Church. It is a cultural element that has devastated our people and which, I assure you, no Article 3 and no additional safeguards. It is a key element of the citizens and in this way you are essentially paraphrasing the quality of religious conscience and making it a matter of state understanding. Therefore, Article 3 practically prevents the free development of the citizens' church life as it is now, because the Church is not just the hierarchy, the Church is its citizens, it is the enlightened ideologists who suffocate in this context. You strengthen the role of hierarchy against the living Church and create the greenhouse of unholy transactions between State and Church. When we regulate Article 3 in the way we say - and it is indeed a very careful and weighed wording - it does not create problems, but it defines roles and is very important for both the state and the citizens. Therefore, by adopting this necessary regulation under Article 3, we do not shake the citizens' religious feelings. Remember what kind of swing you've got for I.D.s? Does anyone have the impression of all those who are religious here that since the "Christian Orthodox" in identity is not mentioned, has the religious feelings of the citizens been shaken? Isn't that a formal proof of our claims? So Orthodoxy, the religious feeling, is not at stake. There is no danger of respect for and the relationship between citizens and Orthodoxy, but the Church is freed from suffocating the state in the interests of both sides. I read - in order to register - and the interpretative statement that I cannot imagine what is not an idea that keeps you from supporting it: 'The term dominating religion is not a recognition of official state religion and does not bring any adverse consequences to the detriment of other religions and, more generally, to the enjoyment of the right of religious freedom'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr. Xanthopoulou, because he's always in time. Mr. Ljupe from New Democracy has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Javarra, the speaker has gone up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a high honour for a Member to participate in the process of Revision of the Constitution. Our Constitution is not only the Charter of the country, it is the live portrayal of our historical evolution and it is linked to our national history. This is the fourth time that the Constitution has been revised since 1975 and the first time since 2008 since the last decade of the crisis. As always, the economic crisis has brought inevitably and social crisis. Many of our fellow citizens have been on the verge of poverty and we have all seen our lives change. We reviewed our priorities and our goals both at staff and at family level. One of the few positives of the new hard reality was that the movement of volunteerism was developed more strongly and the Greek society developed more reflexively to the needs of our fellow people. And while we now seem to have left behind the hardships and looked optimisticly at the future, we cannot and must not forget what we have been living. We cannot ignore that today there are our fellow people who are unable to meet the basic needs of their lives. The proposed addition to Article 21(1) of the Constitution expresses precisely the need to ensure constitutionally decent living for all citizens. The common position of all parties on the regulation of this article is particularly pleasant. Even if there were different wordings from the Anti-Population strands, there is clearly the same goal for everyone. This must be the real point of a constitutional review, of all listening to the needs of society together and of adapting the Constitution to them, beyond and outside political and party purposes. The proposed change in Article 21 of the Constitution is a clear support for patients who are on the verge of poverty. The constitutional safeguarding of minimum guaranteed income creates a sense of security for citizens, that the state will stand alongside them and support them in order to overcome any difficulties and without the stress of survival to reintegrate socially and professionally. The minimum guaranteed income is not another privilege, such as in previous years, but the first step in this overall approach of our economically weaker fellow people. There was also a great debate on the amendment or not of Article 3. SYRIZA has already proposed the abolition of the constitutional rule of the Eastern Orthodox Church as a sovereign religion in Greece. The special rapporteur for Minority agreed that Article 3 shows a great historical route. SYRIZA's main argument is that we should leave behind the historical reasons for the recognition of the prevailing religion in the Constitution and move to a neutral state. However, according to the general confession, the term prevailing religion is nothing more than a finding that this is the religion that is embraced by the majority of Greek citizens. Let us not forget that the specific wording of Article 3 exists from the Ionian Islands Constitution in 1803 and the first Epidaurus Constitution in 1822. On this matter Evangelos Papanoutsos said: "The religion of the Eastern Orthodox Church is bound by irresistible ties to the history of the nation's struggles. So I prevailed in the sense of emotionality rather than the meaning that the "predominant" gives the state the right to recognise her privileged treatment as compared to other doctrines. The interpretation of the Constitution therefore leaves no room for doubt. There is no question of the privileged treatment of the Eastern Orthodox Church, against the other doctrines, so that the revision of this article can make sense. Furthermore, Article 3 of the Constitution does not restrict any citizen to the manifestation of his religious beliefs, which are fully protected by Article 13(1), which states: "The freedom of religious conscience is inviolable. The enjoyment of individual and civil rights does not depend on anyone's religious beliefs. Finally, with regard to the position of the Major Opposition, in relation to the oath of civil servants, civil servants and MPs, we are opposed. The imposition of a political oath would certainly constitute a restriction on freedom of personality and religious conscience. The present regime gives the freedom to choose what suits its beliefs. The attempt to remove any religious reference to the text of the Constitution is, in my view, in the wrong direction. The presence of Orthodoxy in the modern history of Greece is so strong that it is recorded even at the beginning of the text of the Constitution that is not allowed to be reviewed. This important value of Orthodox faith in our history and tradition is accepted by the Council of State, which considered that Christ's image at his audience is linked to the tradition of the court and in no way insults religious freedom. Of course, our conviction that the wording of Article 3 of the Constitution, as it stands, must remain based not only on historical facts. It is also about modern reality, the intense day-to-day and living contact of the middle Greek citizen with Orthodox Christian faith. In closing, we all realize that this is a historic opportunity. We have the opportunity to make small, but important contributions to the text of the Constitution, based on the events that we have experienced in recent years, the mistakes we have made and the vision we have of Greece tomorrow. Real progress and development will be possible as a country, when aristotle political friendship becomes part of our culture and our experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, too, for the time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-one students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Evrosmou Thessaloniki High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The parliamentary spokesperson of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u255	Thank you very much, Mr President. Yesterday, for the first time I was over three minutes of my time, and I'm heavy on it. I couldn't sleep tonight, I'll make sure I get it back to you all today, because you have the right to talk, and we're talking a lot more than you. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we are continuing today our debate on the constitutional review with two, in my opinion, extremely interesting themes for our country. The first concerns the relationship between the Church and the State and the second concerns the protection of the fundamental rights of man and the institutions and the principle of the social rule of law. So let's start with the flame, as always in this country and always exist for the Greek society - openly I mean in the conscience of the citizens of our country - a thorny issue of this relationship between the sinful Church and the State. MERA25 believes, as always, that in a modern European country the state should be neutral towards all religious communities and associations, regardless of the various religious commitments of different parts of the Greek people and - let me add here - regardless of the fact that, as we all know, the overwhelming majority of our fellow citizens, the conventioners, belong to the Orthodox Greek faith. In this way, we believe that liberation is being protected more effectively and more fully. We believe that any religious union or community is equal to the law and can decide freely and indiscriminately on its behalf, namely for its internal organisation. Within this general framework, both administrative and dogmatic issues of the Orthodox Church of Greece, in our view in the Mera24, are a strictly internal issue and do not need any of us - from legislative power I mean - constitutional welfare. With the same logic, Mera25 also proposes the removal of any provision of oath, whether this oath is religious or political, from our Constitution. No one can say with absolute confidence that invoking an oath is binding, why? Because in this case it would be unaware of the human situation and what is the human situation? Of course, man's habit of thinking other than what he does or does other than states, says or swears about them. We all know. Therefore, the interconnecting of the oath with the Constitution, the constant invocation of the oath in the court, in the university and in other places, is, in our view, a kind of hunger of the very meaning of the oath and of the honor and moral values of the oath. It is clear that all our citizens, all of us, are bound by the laws of the state and we all have equal rights and obligations vis-à-vis these laws and there is no need for any reference to vows in order to certify the truth, the lie, the degree, the knowledge and all that ultimately constitute the personality of each of us. The second theme is the protection of fundamental human rights, the protection of institutions and the principle of the social rule of law. With the tools that provide specialized scientists, taking into account the social and economic conditions and the proposals of the trade unions and social institutions, and of course always after consulting - I mean the Greek people and their bodies - the legislator must identify and ensure a decent level of living, free access to social services and public goods in general and efficiently. The effective here is of importance. In other words, simple and understandable, all citizens are entitled and the state must provide them with equal treatment and access to education, health, social services, public services, justice, as the law defines. Special care, in our view, should exist for children, young people, elderly people and people with disabilities. In addition, for the most deprived, all of these conditions of equal treatment, without any discrimination at all. Mer25's proposal to protect individual rights and social institutions is very concrete and reasonable, as we consider it essential and crucial to stress that the state guarantees, through universal social services and income support, a decent level of living for all of us. In paragraph 2 of Article 5, we accept the SYRIZA's position on non-discrimination based on sex, gender identity and sexual orientation. Indeed, we believe that this guarantee is very important, especially at a time when sexist and heterosexual voices are growing. However, we come to enrich it with the addition of the last paragraph as follows: 'Migrants and refugees enjoy the rights recognised by European and international law'. Nothing more. It is necessary and very timely to add such an addition, in our view, to the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, because it is crucial for the Constitution of a European country to guarantee universal humanity and respect for the universal rights, to convince those who promote the doctrine of aggressive defence to our weak and persecuted fellow humans who are forced to seek their fate thousands of kilometres away from their homes. It is crucial for our historical memory to remember that the term illegal immigrant, which we hear enough and unfortunately not just from the extreme right last, was first used by the Americans for us Greeks and Italian first colonists there in the 1920s. We were the victims themselves, and now a lot of us are treating themselves as our perpetrators in Greek and Greece of the enormous dispersion, migration and refugee, where it only fits to offer solidarity to those who have been, are or will be in the same position. That is how we honour our history and our quality, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, some of the historic members of the New Democracy party yesterday vanished from a reversal of the speech of the Secretary-General of our party, Mr Varoufakis. The revulsion was about what else? It was a revulsion about a enslaved state. That's what our secretary said. I can't really understand why they vented your vents. I think that to a certain extent - not in public - we all know that our state is not exactly free to do what it wants. Dear friends of the Couple, I'll ask you three questions. If one of you intends to answer, I will be happy to hear his answer. I think that these questions are a great deal of evidence of how much subspecies our state is. Question 1, do you agree with the primary surpluses - mammoth for the next forty years? As far as I know, no, you don't agree. And the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible for Finance, Mr Stagiras, have repeatedly stated that this is what needs to be negotiated immediately, but they will start it shortly later, not to be misled by the institutions that represent our lenders. Negotiation? What negotiation? Why should we negotiate our primary surpluses? I thought that the non-subscribing states did not negotiate their budgets and do not repeat the argument 'but since we are indebted and the lenders put it as a condition to lend us', because then I will answer that when I, Claus Gregoriadis, owe and since I am not a enslaved, my only legal and moral obligation is at some point to get rid of me and neither am I entitled to choose on my behalf what I will cut off, what I will lose myself to get rid of him. But if I'm a debt-flower, then it's a change. Then not only can my lender, sometimes acting as my owner, choose how I'm going to get rid of it, but he can, furthermore, if he wants, as we have learned, over the last eleven years, not let me get rid of him ever. Question 2: I hear that you intend to make the tremendously generous reduction in tax advance payments, get it to 95%. For now, you haven't done it, I hope you do it, but it's not serious, it's for the eyes of the world. So do you agree with the 100% tax advance for next year for all the companies operating in Greece, which, apart from a global originality, is at the same time, as you all know, an entirely suicidal and completely material tax practice? I really don't know what you're answering here, because you've been stubbornly refusing to answer. If you agree, say it so that the Greek people know it. In this case, our state, I must confess, will not be a substitute, it will be free, it will simply hate its citizens businesspeople. If again, as I hope, you do not agree with this case-law 100% and the future 95% tax advance, why do you not abolish it? So beautiful things and so much wonderful reliefs I hear on systemic channels that you are preparing us with your new tax bill. Why is it not that the abolition of this kind of thing is not at last included? Do you know why? Because they won't let you. Do you know why they can't leave you? Because our state is a submarine state. Do you know why your state is a submarine? Because if he were not, he would once again do the self-evident thing at some point, he would do the basics to protect us, his citizens and, above all, the very poorest of me. Do not forget that this is why the state exists, which is why we and our ancestors have recommended it in order to protect us. But not only Mr. Latsis, Mr. Niarchus, Mr. Vardinoyannis and Mr. Bobola. I say this because as you overprotect them, I sometimes wonder who will protect all of us other Greeks from your protectors. Question 3: Speaking of the Constitution tonight, did he have or did not have, ladies and gentlemen, a constitutional right by Alexis Tsipras, then Prime Minister and now Chief of Police Vice-Population, call a referendum in 2015? He had and was doing it, as you all know very well. Did the previous Prime Minister, George Papandreou, have the right to call a referendum in 2011? As you all know, he and he had such a constitutional right. Then why did you all fall on them to eat them? When I say, I mean all the conservative, systemic parties in Greece, but also all the informal and therefore completely illegal - I say not illegal, I say lawless - European institutions representing our lenders. You know who I'm talking to. I am referring to these happy institutions, such as the Commission, the Eurogroup, the EuroWorking Group, which are not provided for in any of the European Union's founding proclamations and as the legal service of Eurogroup itself has said to our prestige Minister for Finance, Mr Varoufakis, they simply do not exist. You know, that was when Jean-Claude Juncker told him: “Come out because you're a bad student. You're naughty, we'll stay the good in class now." Of course, Varoufakis told him: "You can't throw me out. We have a democracy in the European Union. I will stay here." Yunker told him: 'No, I can, because I am the President of the Eurogroup'. Then Varoufakis immediately asked for an opinion from the special legal agency that is there on such occasions. Do you know what this special legal service responded to him, as our Chief has stated publicly on several occasions? He replied that Eurogroup is not provided for in any Treaty establishing the European Union, so there is no way the President of an institution that is typically unable to do - and I am sorry for the expression - whatever he smokes. These institutions, therefore, who themselves admit that they do not exist, of course assisted by their local sites...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Gregoryde, you won't sleep tonight. You've exceeded the three-minute time you've said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u257	Excuse me. I'll be right over. They forced the first Prime Minister to take back the referendum, dismissing his self-evident constitutional right, and the second one that did not get it simply closed in the eye, the banks, "straining" our economy and forcing him - I think - to the well-known change of course followed by his government. Ladies and gentlemen, when two Prime Ministers of a state are blackmailed and at least one is forced to change their political actions, when two Prime Ministers of a state disagree with the primary surpluses that their country has to achieve in the next thirty years, but they cannot finally change them when all the Prime Ministers who have been ruling in this country have publicly said that they disagree with the way their citizens have been taxed and taxed over these years, but what they have to do, then I am sorry to say, but this state is a completely subspecies state or, as Saint Maximos the confessor would have said, lost their self-interest. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. President. I didn't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u258	For the night I said it, not for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Gregorydis was in his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u260	He said he'd be back three minutes. He only came back one, so I caught him to sleep. Mr. Antonios Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will confess to you something. I really feel very proud and blessed to be a member of this National Representation, which is called on to review the 1975 Constitution or - to say it better - to update it. The top moment of democracy is what is taking place this week and will be completed on Monday. This booklet with the 120 articles is the supreme and fundamental law of the state, a law of the state, the Constitution, which unfortunately in the past nine years of the memorials - was heard by Parliament's wings on either side, but also by Greek citizens - it had become a rag. Why? Because the governments were unfortunately carrying out orders from lenders. We've all been talking about it. But I would like to ask the SYRIZA's ladies and gentlemen: you have had the opportunity as a proposing parliament, because you had the majority, to bring to debate and update, if you want - as you say yourself - some serious articles, such as that of the election of the President of the Republic by the people - you have not brought it - you have not brought it - the establishment of a constitutional court that exists, ladies and gentlemen, in most advanced countries in the world, the independence of justice, so that we can all be judged as the ordinary Greek citizen, but also Article 16, on which you are constantly speaking, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, but only on the issue of the religion and teaching of the lesson of Religiouss and not on the private university, so that we do not leave our children abroad, so that they do not leave the currency in Bulgaria, Romania, Czechoslovakia, but also come to our home currency, a currency which is a great need. What is it that drives the left wing in here? Article 3(1) speaks of the prevailing religion. ‘Dominant religion’. She says it's her own phrase. We don't have to analyse it. If someone makes a golf to the Greek people right now, it will make 90% -95% dominant religion the Orthodox Christian religion of the Eastern Church. Why should we put ‘neutral religion’? What is it that confuses SYRIZA, the Communist Party, the Mera25, so we all understand? Even - even the ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, as I have heard Mr Ilhan and Mr Loverdo say that there must be an interpretation, that is, next to the prevailing religion, of putting an interpretation that is not above other religions. Apparently they mean Muslims, etc. I don't get it. So Article 3(1), in conjunction with Article 13, solves the problem. There's a disgraceful religion in our country. No one commits anyone to believe in Christ. So it's an issue that we've been talking about all day, no reason and no reason. I have heard this and I am surprised that we are considering - one thing that no one understands - the "dominating religion", "Christian religion" with "Greece, Greeks, Christians". What does one have to do with the other? Does "Greece, Greeks, Christians" have anything to do with the "dominated religion" of the Constitution? Of course not. So stop saying that, 'cause people put you in Civic Opposition, and soon you'll be back at 4% the way you go. It's unbelievable what's going on. Let's go see another issue, which is also very serious. Article 33(2), ‘Organised President of the Republic’. Why is it a problem for the President of the Republic to swear in the Holy, Omousia and Indivisible Trinity? What should we change from that? To abolish this, to abolish Article 59 which Members must vow - those who want to see Christians feel - in the Holy and Omposium and Indivisible Trinity, to keep the Constitution, the laws of the state, etc. and go to the political oath. I have the impression - and I think that the Greek solution was very clear from the outset and with the parliamentary representative and with the special speaker - that they do not change. The Greek people are inextricably linked to Christianity. The Greeks and Greeks are and will remain Christians. I left the family behind. Article 21(1): ‘The family is the cell of society. It is the foundation of the nation of the Greeks." What's family? He is the father - fatherhood - unless we question this - mother - motherhood and children, unless we start now and say that we can have two fathers or two mothers to have a family. The kids from where they come from, to understand. They are now ending the state-protected ones. I'll read something that we've forgotten. Article 21(4): ‘Acquisition of residence by those who do not have or who are inadequately resident shall be the subject of special care by the State’. Do you know what he says here? He's talking about people who don't have a home. We remember working dwellings, as some governments were building to enable people who could not obtain a residence were not able to live. How are we going to ensure this? By making massive auctions, gentlemen of the government? I ask and ask the law-approved, the majority rapporteur. Paragraph 4 of Article 21 is a serious matter that speaks of the home of the ordinary Greek citizen, who cannot fix it or stays in a house which can house his family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u262	Thank you. Mr. Kriton Arsenis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will talk about an issue that is very important in terms of rights. It concerns rights for young mothers and parents, for parentality in a way that we have never seen in Greek society. We have the most fragile age for a child, who is the first two years of his life. It's the age he needs both his parents. It's been scientifically proven. It's the most crucial years for a child's development. And yet, at the moment, we don't have the right for most parents to be with their children for the first two years of their lives. Parents need - in essence for work reasons - to leave their children at nurseries and to be separated, which means less breast-feeding for mothers and a number of issues for the development and hygiene of the child, so it is very critical. It is my proposal, as far as the Review is concerned, to put the part of protection and paternity, but also a separate reference to the protection of infants, apart from the general characterisation of the protection of children in the second theme. It is very crucial, because at the moment, with the dismantling of labour relations, we actually have parents who do not have the time to give their children. We have parents who will never be able to spend this time with their young children at this critical age of the first two years, so I think this proposal should be included in our Constitution and there should be a separate reference to paternity. If you want, it's also sexist to exist only for maternity. Also, there should be a separate reference to infants, to special care, special provisions for infants of age. Our Constitution should normally include a right, a human right - as the UN says - to breast-feeding. Greece was a country until recently that had disappeared the breast-feeding. Only very recently, with the establishment of the National Committee to promote breast-feeding, things changed a little and hospitals began to be used for breast-feeding and this started to be promoted again. Something similar has to be done for the part of birth, as regards normal birth, the right of couple and woman to choose how she wants to give birth. They are critical issues of public health as well, as demonstrated by the World Health Organisation. Thank you very much. I think they are very useful and I hope they will be included.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u264	Thank you. Mr. Pulas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this House has the honour and responsibility of voting for a constitutional review which should mark the entry of our country into a new era, in the era of the fourth industrial revolution, with the escalation of technology and the widespread spread of the Internet, with the shrinking of distances and the unobstructed dissemination of ideas and information, but also in the era that holds the citizens of economic globalisation, overconcentration of economic power in the hands of the fewer, political oppression, intact migration, the compelling of individual and social rights. After a decade of containment on the one hand by the economic crisis and, on the other hand, the budget sizes of the central state, citizens expected a Review, which would go hand in hand with their expectations of having a share of prosperity in the new era and being run by a state that is effective, dynamic and flexible. The provisions which could introduce an innovation, such as new forms of direct democracy, unfortunately remain incomplete. The dialogue that should be sparked into the Greek society for the Revision of the Constitution has never begun, so that the entire review process remains within doors and outside society, and we as parliamentarians at this time, instead of meeting the needs of the future, are politically unseen. In addition, the short period of preparation of the Review Committee and the debate on this important state project demonstrates an unnecessarily urgency for the government to end with this parliamentary obligation as soon as possible. Based on the above data, I fully identify with the assessment of the general speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Loverdou, that the project of this Review is another lost parliamentary opportunity without boldness and vision. Therefore, following the political tradition of PASOK defended by acts of democracy, reforms, progress and individual and social rights, the Change Movement tabled concrete proposals considering the review project as a unique opportunity for a brave change in areas such as strengthening the independence of justice and the rule of law, upgrading the legislative work, establishing the Board of Civil Heads, controlling the parties' economics, dealing with climate change, non-state, non-profit universities. Especially in terms of the latter, while in most countries in Europe and here near Cyprus there are State and non-State universities, Greece once again lost the train. Our refusal to self-evidently, despite the attempt of the Change Movement to review Article 16 of the Constitution, undeniably takes the country backwards. In this respect, we have repeatedly given our examinations as a party to the incorporation of the right to social security, the protection of the family and of the health of citizens who are the main pillars of the social state as set out in Article 21 of the Constitution. Ensuring minimum guaranteed income is extremely important if we consider that in the years of the crisis overnight economic planning has been overturned and the percentage of households living below the poverty level has doubled. Of course, the national legislature must, in accordance with this constitutional requirement, determine the income limit for decent living both at wage and pension level and take the necessary measures to ensure it. We therefore expect to see at what level the introduction of the minimum guaranteed income will be transformed into national legislation in the case-law of the courts and generally targeted social benefits. In addition, the safeguarding of the right to health consists of the constitutionally established right of man to provide the State with quality health services. In other words, the state is obliged to take positive action to ensure the prevention and treatment of physical and mental health. It is up to the national legislator to specialise this right each time with concrete measures and initiatives. The constitutional guarantee of the right to health is clearly in the right direction. In the years of the crisis, however, it was the health sector that suffered as much budgetary adjustment as possible. This is demonstrated by the substantial freezing of the recruitment of permanent staff to the ESS for a decade, by the towel of credits to public hospitals for the supply of medicines and materials, by the residual functioning of psychiatric health structures, by the inability to finance primary health care, by the transfer of much of the cost to the medicine from the State to the citizen, by the failure to complete e-prescription, by the failure to implement the e-patient file. So all this health problems are due to what? Insufficient state funding. How, then, will this constitutional requirement be fulfilled if the government does not generously fund the health sector? In addition, it is not a constitutional health protection unless increased protection measures are adopted by the national legislature for older people, for multitudes and for disabled people. In a country that is ageing, with young scientists leaving the country, with a large number of migrants protecting the old age, luxury, people with special problems, is a necessity. Therefore, in order to protect the health of citizens, there is no need for constitutional wishes but for political will to finally take place. Finally, I am in favour of protecting public goods. I think it goes without saying that basic social goods such as water, electricity and hydrocarbons and, in general, the country's natural wealth must be in public control and the state must ensure that all citizens can have access to them. Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional provisions must be simple, clear, so that they do not become vacant words and words. We take the political responsibility to support the provisions that we consider to be in the right direction and ensure political stability and strong democracy, and in this context we will also give our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr Poula, and respect for the time. Mr. Vitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u267	Mr. President, isn't it my turn? I had asked before and you told me I was going to talk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Famelle, Mr. Vitsats was in a meeting just like Mr. Arsenis was before. We had contacted as soon as he got into the room to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u269	I was in a meeting, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u270	Immediately after Mr. Vitsa, you'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u271	It's not a matter. You just said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u272	And in order to avoid any misunderstanding, Mr Arsenis was on a committee and had previously been consulted when he entered the Chamber to take the floor. Mr. Vitsats was also in a meeting. He just came to the room right away, we gave him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u273	It is solidarity between the Vice-Presidents!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u274	Then I'll say something about the Vice Presidents later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u275	Ladies and gentlemen, I will deal basically with the articles on social rights. I will also give an answer to the issues referred to in Article 3 but not to Article 3 itself. I hope that the proposals put forward by SYRIZA during the constitutional review are well known, what the New Democracy said after that they do not need. First, an explicit guarantee of equal pay for equal work regardless of age. Do I need to? If you don't have to, let someone explain to me how the underpaid wage was introduced. Secondly, the minimum wage should be fixed by the national social partners. If there is no need, as the New Democracy says, let someone explain to me how the government took a decision and took the minimum wage to EUR 586 and the minimum wage to EUR 516. Thirdly, safeguarding collective agreements by guaranteeing the validity of a more favourable regulation. Don't you have to? Why then did it need a whole legislative process in September 2018 to return the principles of expansion and more favourable regulation? Fourthly, the right to unilateral referral to arbitration. Looks like we have a lot of difference. Even now you're saying that if they don't go to arbitration, no one goes to arbitration. I mean, we don't finally have a new collective agreement. Fifth, protection of the public character of the insurance system. You said yourself today that the public insurance system is not constitutionally guaranteed. Sixth, constitutional safeguard, through universal social services and income support, of a decent standard of living for all. You recognize it with the minimum guaranteed income. But it's not just an income issue. We may vote for this provision as the last retreat, but, if you want, it is multifactorial. Seventhly, public control of basic social goods, such as water, electricity and so many others, is guaranteed. Do you remember how many people had left without electricity, without water, and without other common goods, which we must defend? Eighth, recognition of justice and obedience as principles governing the exercise and protection of individual and social rights. You don't have to! And what about the cleaner at Volos, who went to jail? What are we going to do with Grandma with the helmets, which she was selling without having a cash machine next to her? In such cases, which unfortunately aren't rare, shouldn't there be a leniency for these people? Or should the Minister or even the Prime Minister himself intervene, so that we can have a better situation? So these proposals or the most important part of them are rejected by the New Democracy on the grounds that they do not need them. And yet, the articles on individual and social rights are from the cornerstones of the Constitution, these articles that show if we go ahead, are those articles that show how we understand and cover new needs or shield self-evident rights. So why do you deny it? I want to make two points. The first is ideologically political. Classical liberalism connects freedom to property and even considers that property is the last refuge, the last line of resistance to power and its arbitrariness. But, even more, he thinks in life there are only two natural and inalienable rights. The right to property and freedom. So, now neoliberalism comes and combines these two. What are you going to find out from behind it? You will find the freedom to move capital, you will find the privatisations of public services, the dedication and the forcedness - I think Mr Vorides will go to get the paternity of the term - in essence the violence of the market, the degradation of the welfare state and others. On the other hand, we believe that in life there are five basic rights and that is the right to freedom, to work, to housing, to health, to education. Combine these and you will discover the welfare state and the welfare state, which owes an economic policy, favourable to work, which does not regard as a basic principle respect for the economy of the free market as a development measure not only the increase of GDP, but also access to health services, certain housing, public and free education, environmental protection. So here is our great ideological difference. I remember - and I say to you that I remember well - that, in the Charter of Rights of Nice, these rights were initially included. But the words of Tony Blair still ring in my ears, who said exactly - in translation from English - "We cannot include fundamental human rights, which we cannot guarantee." Immediately after these words, the right to work and the right to the roof disappeared from fundamental human rights and the other two basic rights to health and education. Labelling second: It looks like you don't understand anything or do that you don't understand what happened in Greece and Europe over the last decade, when, through the crisis, the promise of continuous rise through competition was abolished. I have already said a few examples from the Greeks. But, apparently, you do not understand that our society was constitutionally irresponsible. You did not realize that democracy was sacrificed, that democracy was replaced by a so-called scientific and technological management above criticism. Do you remember the government of Papademos? Do you remember the Monty government? And he goes by saying. And one final comment on Mr. Loverd's morning challenge to Article 3 and the distinct roles of State and Church. Mr Loverdo, it is my view that our proposal in this regard is 'partial and certain cowardly'. But it's a step. But are you, in your argument, entitled to say that your proposal is cowardly and partial? So, what are you telling us? That if we had included Article 16(2), Article 13, would you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u276	13 not. In 16.2 yes, we would vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u277	Would you vote for her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u278	Sure. We'd vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u279	Would you vote both?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u280	Second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Kamines this morning, speaking of Article 3, said you wouldn't vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u282	Article 16(2) would be voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u283	What do we have here now? I say - so that I do not remember another - that you are not entitled, since you do not vote on this argument. Keep the argument that you want to remain the same and without neutrality between the state and the church.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u284	Do you accept a friendly interruption?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u285	What about me? Please! The President if he accepts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u286	No, I don't accept any interruptions. This is not the case!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u287	I'll finish right up, so we can talk about it later. Does it bother you that it is not too daring, that our proposal has been won, and, if it were, would you vote for it? Or that your historical conservative tradition of both parties wants a church-based secular state, which has nothing to do with religion, nothing to do with religious conscience, but does it have anything to do with votes through the exploitation of religion and religious conscience? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u288	Thank you. Mr. Kamines has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, thank you. As regards the relationship between Article 3 and Article 16, we said that Article 16(2) has this provision on the development of religious conscience. The interpretative channel, through which the judge and especially the Council of State, essentially chose the homologous nature of the Religious Course, the Religious Course, is the "predominant religion" of Article 3. And that is why we said that once Article 16(2) is not revised under the responsibility of SYRIZA, because SYRIZA was afraid to touch it, and we jumped and we went to 5 to review and establish private universities, we put the interpretative statement in Article 3, which clears things out from this point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u290	Mr. President, can I have a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u291	No, no. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, that is not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u293	No, he didn't say anything personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, he has referred to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u295	No, not at all. There's no personal matter. Mr. Vitsa, Mr. Famelos will be misunderstood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u296	I won't get any misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, for a minute. It's not right what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u298	Come on, Mr. Felmele.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, this is not right!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u300	No, it's very right and under the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, under the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u302	It wasn't personal, you don't have the floor. You are neither a parliamentary representative. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u303	Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u304	It was not even mentioned in your name, it was generally reported. Please. Mr. Femmelle, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u306	Is that a situation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u307	I will only refer to one thing. I won't say anything else. As far as Article 162 is concerned, we accept the interpretation made by Mr Venizelos and Mr Loverdes. You don't accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u308	All right, Mr. Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, let me explain two things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u310	No, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u311	Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u312	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u313	But then I'll ask again why!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u314	But you say Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Loverdos. And think Mr. Venizelos isn't here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u315	For you, I ask for the floor to give you the opportunity to clarify it. Mr President, it must be understood, at least to Mr. Vitsa, who is a lawyer, that he is a legal person. Mr Kamines said - and I and all our colleagues said - that the other thematic section of Article 3 and that of Article 16. Article 16, like Article 13, on freedom of religion, moves in the field of rights. Article 3 moves in the field of symbolism. If we go through - I repeat what Mr Kamine said - the interpretative note in Article 3 that it is distinct roles and in nothing dominated religion affects Article 13, I do not understand the refusal of the SYRIZA to include it in the provisions under review. It's simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor. Please very much, gentlemen, a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will take the floor from Mr Javarra's initial position. Mr Javarras started by putting a number of questions on Members' participation in the debate on the constitutional review and, in general, on the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u318	President. - The next item is the
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u319	So I want to go on with Mr. Javarra's thoughts. I would like to ask the Bureau of Parliament and the Government, which has the initiative, how many bills do you intend to put into committees the week we discuss the constitutional review, showing your respect for the constitutional revision?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u320	The Presidents have not respected it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u321	Mr. Javarra, please. You will ask for the floor on staff later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u322	I know it's bothering you, Mr. Javarra. I know, but it's okay. Because I have been in a very difficult position yesterday to have a committee, today to have two committees and to put a new bill. So we have a choice of government, a choice of the Bureau of Parliament, for things that were not discussed in the Bureau last week, so that we can fill with committees this week so that Members cannot participate in the debate on constitutional reform. You know, the Constitution concerns and emits at the same time I would say in total in our operation and, in particular, in the functioning of the political system. If the Government does not respect the debate on constitutional revision, if the Bureau of Parliament does not respect the debate on constitutional revision, we cannot ask citizens to respect the Constitution. Of course, from there and then notice the very great contradiction, we are discussing the Constitution and the principle - Mr Vitsas said it just before - equal pay for equal work and at the same time in a committee of Parliament we are debating a government law that abolishes this principle! And PPC makes two speed workers and new recruits are out of collective agreement and do not have the same pay as their colleagues and all the other rights! In other words, the government comes in the same week as the Constitutional Review and cancels basic elements of parity, which it has done on other issues very quickly in the first three months. For us the debate on the Constitution is a debate on democracy and rights, because we want to broaden democratic processes and rights. A simple example is self-government. Is it possible to cancel both the simple analogue and the result of the elections, but also the powers of the communities? To cancel the communism and the right of people to care about their land? Of course, to tell the truth, the majority and the New Democracy have not only remained in it. He touched on all the debate we had on the constitutional review during the previous period. It has kept nothing of all the essentials that have matured in our society. However, I would like to clarify this in order to get to the specifics of the day, and in society the answer that the New Democracy will give to two issues will remain, whether the President of the Parliament will allow the President of the Republic to come out of a minority and whether or not he will accept the interpretative declaration on the responsibility of the Ministers. There you will be judged and judged very directly by the citizens. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that there are two perceptions in today's debate. A conception wants society with freedom and democracy, because it is a provision of creativity, of production democracy and freedom, and a concept that wants society with repression, a society of Ministers, which must be feared in the view of your Government. I find it hard to believe the cases of autocracy that have been made public over the past few days, and I want the ministers to confirm them to me. I read in a site friendly to the government today that there was a torture of a student who was filming the episodes, that his fingers broke, that it was hard to bleed, that they prevented his family from seeing other things like this. I read in another press, another newspaper, that there are monitoring devices and bugs entering human beings belonging to political organisations or protesting. I wonder how far this wave of authoritarianism will arrive. You are essentially questioning democratic ideals won by the Polytechnic uprising and guaranteed in this Chamber too. I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to return to these ideals. But the reason why I specifically spoke today is because of the basic social goods, which are included in the sustainable development objectives and in the dominant five goods that Mr Vitsas said, is water and energy. Although the United Nations is coming and decides within the seventeen sustainable development objectives for 2030 - it is this sign that I wear in the tower - to ensure that citizens have access to clean water and that citizens have access to cheap and 'green energy', the majority comes and refuses in the process of constitutional review to enter Article 21, which we are debating today. In fact, it is not just about another ideological concept at the level of a political sphere of mind, it is about concrete actions that you take by limiting citizens' access to water and to cheap and clean energy. In particular, the Government for a strange reason does not apply the water pricing and pricing regulation containing an environmental invoice, for those who do not consume too much, a social invoice for those in need, a reduction in leaks and a high quality. What we all need. On the contrary, majority Members come and tell us that it is very cheap water, which suggests that you do not just want to go through the Constitution to ensure access to the U.N., and you are at odds with the UN as regards clean water, but you also want to invoice it very expensively, possibly to sell to the water companies. This is what you do in Thessaloniki, where there is responsibilities and local government, because with Law 4555, "KLITHENI", there was a provision and there is that self-government can get 24%, which is now 51%, to participate in the ETH's equity capital and has not been activated since July 2018. And there the majority of the self-government are in the New Democracy. It is clear, therefore, that there is a provision that gives self-government the right to participate in the ownership, administration and management of water that has and cheaper costs for the citizen and access to quality data, but on the contrary neither the political leadership at the moment of the ministry, that is, the government nor the self-government. In fact, they proposed another action, which was abrogated during the formation of the Government by the Special Secretariat for Waters, showing where they have "written" clean drinking water and waters of our country. They do the same in energy. They sought to privatise IPTO and all the other energy networks between 2010 and 2015, and especially the Samara - Venizelos government, we saved the "little" PPC and did not allow our country's hydroelectric production to be sold particularly, one of the "cleanest" energy dynamics, we overturned it in the case of IPTO, and now come with the bill that is being discussed this week in Parliament to privatise the gas network. So access to a better quality, if you want, form of energy, such as gas, from hydrocarbons and lignite, will not be accessible to all citizens, because the network's expansion will depend on the owner's profit, which will be a monopoly. There will be no competition, no better prices, transparency and competition. A natural monopoly will become private, and the expansion of the network to the western districts of Athens will depend on whether the owner will make profit, not on whether the people need it, not on whether there is to be liberation, carbonisation and have green growth, but on the profit and therefore will not be done. And we see what the results are. Private providers take customers from PPC straight. Forty thousand customers have been lost in the past two months from the unjust and unnecessarily increased invoices made by Mr. Hatzidakis. The same is being prepared to do so in the "Greek Petroleum", because that is where people are judged access to, for example, oil, because the prices of crude oil depend on the ownership of the "Greek Petroleum". So the government comes along and proves today by coincidence - because we are discussing the article of the Constitution on access to water and energy and the relevant bill - that it has nothing to do with environmental policy. It is an environmental government, a government that works at the expense of sustainable development, because it has not accepted any of the provisions relating to water, energy, but other issues, such as access to health, the fight against poverty and hunger, equal pay for equal work and all those contained in the sustainable development objectives. However, there is now time with the least Members present in the New Democracy I believe that this debate must be reopened. We are obliged as a political system to give citizens access to the basic goods of life and sustainable development and the Constitution is the appropriate text to reflect this great democratic need for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u323	Thank you. Mrs Theanoo Fotioou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to make a statement. Mr. Brutsis made one of his well-known poachers. The figures he mentioned do not, of course, concern the minimum guaranteed income of the New Democracy, but the SYRIZA CRL do not relate, of course, to two hundred and fifty thousand families, as he said, another two hundred and fifty thousand households, because we put it in the CRL. The minimum guaranteed income established in 2012 by the New Democracy was your Memorandum. You had to put it from the second memorandum. It was no historical decision. You left it this way because you were completely incapable of implementing it and at the end of 2014 you took off a KHS, historically, as Mr. Brutsis said this morning. What was that? It was not for the application of the minimum guaranteed, it was for a pilot project of the minimum guaranteed for thirty thousand people. This programme was implemented in 2015 by us as a pilot project for thirty thousand people, rejected by the evaluators you yourself set, by Wells Bank and the IAB, and dumped it in the trash. We have designed it from the outset as a CRL, a Social Solidarity Income, and we have said so, CRL, not to change his name, but to point out that it was a social solidarity allowance, not this grand "minimum guaranteed income" etc. Indeed, we framed it with too many benefits, three pillars, and in addition we framed it with too many benefits, services and poverty benefits. We have, as Mr Brutsis said today, applied it to seven hundred thousand people at that time. Now, as he said today, there are four hundred and fifty thousand people who take the CRL. There is no more proof that with all of SYRIZA's policies we have reduced extreme poverty. Let us now come to the New Democracy's proposal on minimum guaranteed income. I would say, firstly, that it is about straightforward constitutionalisation of neoliberalism and the requirements of the memoranda and, secondly, that the fact that you include it in Article 21(1) to protect the family and keep this part of the family shows that you are not monitoring - due to ideology - the changes made to social relations. The crisis has taught you nothing. You rule out this way, as you did with what you planned, the younger than eighteen who live with their parents, since they are not registered in the Unemployment Fund and those who live with others without family ties. That is, three young people who are living together and who are unemployed cannot get this minimum guaranteed income. But let us see what the two proposals for Article 21 say. We want the full replacement of Article 21(1) to be written: 'The State guarantees through universal, social and income support a decent level of living for all. In determining the standard of living the legislator must use scientific methods, take into account the current objective social conditions. Special protection is granted to family, marriage, maternity, children, young people, the elderly, the disabled and the needy.’ What you say: "The family as the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation, as well as marriage, maternity and childhood are under the protection of the state. The State shall ensure that all citizens enjoy decent living conditions through the minimum guaranteed income system.’ We believe that the state must guarantee a decent standard of living for its citizens through universal social services and benefits and not through a programme of minimum guaranteed income, which concerns only extreme poverty. It is not quantified or defined internationally, such as the risk of poverty, which is quantified at 60% of each country's median income. He said Mr. Brutsis that the CRL gave EUR 213 - he said that the minimum guaranteed amount, but you are not bored - on average in each family. And in that he was wrong. He gave every housewife. Good. Are decent conditions guaranteed with that money to every household in the middle? Do you even refuse to increase it, in accordance with SYRIZA's proposal? The minimum guaranteed income is arbitrarily defined by each government, depending on what amount it can make available to the budget for extreme poverty, so it is unacceptable to prescribe it. You are original internationally, not just European. No country has included it in its Constitution. The minimum guaranteed income for the rich Scandinavian states was very high, but for the poor it is degrading and acts as a trap of poverty and as a mechanism for compressing the minimum wage. In recent years, with the imposition of memoranda in European countries, it has been evident that the neoliberal version wanted to replace all the privileged benefits given to the disabled, to the child, to the elderly, to the citizens without a private home and that concern not only the poor, but also the middle layers. You want to replace all this with the minimum guaranteed income. This is a mistaken of privileged rights, a social regression. That was what the IMF wanted to impose on us, when it said to cut down on allowances, save 1 billion and integrate them into the minimum guaranteed income. We didn't. We gave 700 million of the CRL budget, increased the child's allowance by 350 million, school meals by 70 million, exempted the allowances for the disabled from their taxable income, increased the budget to 100 million in kindergartens from the budget, not from the NSRF, to 350 million for the first time for the first time, we donated red loans to 150 million. Make the bill. So we fought not only the poverty and child poverty, but also the poverty that the middle layers had suffered when by 2015 they had lost 40% of their incomes and one out of five had moved to the poor strata. After your election to power you restored the announcements of 1 billion for the minimum guaranteed income, just as the IMF said and today you want to draft it. It's our great ideological difference. You have the idea that welfare is charity. You've explained it many times. As long as GDP grows, that is to say, we will also give the poor. But growth does not combat inequality. That is why in times of great growth in Greece, one out of four children was in poverty, because there was no welfare state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We found child poverty in 2015, based on ELSTAT's data, within two and a half years at the pre-crisis levels, with a set of services and benefits for the child. The provision for you is exclusively a customer mechanism for the reproduction of the political staff of bipartism. That's why we received her with fifty-three employees in 2015. He had fifty three employees in 2015, Social Services. We have created a digital prosperous state with two hundred forty community centres for all benefits and the OPEKA and, more than a thousand additional staff, to abolish the roussefetti, to give dignity to the Greek citizen to enjoy his rights. For the Left, the predictive width is not a charity mechanism, but a mechanism for intervention by the state against social inequalities to restore the equality of citizens. Care is not only protection against extreme poverty, but protection of the child, the disabled, the elderly, those who have no private home, with a set of benefits and services. This is what our proposal for the Constitutional Review declares. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u325	Be well, Mrs. Fotio. Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Stylianides, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u326	Because Mrs Fotiou said that there is no provision in any country, first of all, I would like to make it clear that no troika imposed this. It's our primary decision to recommend it to the Constitution. Secondly, the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany, the Bundesverfassungsgericht, in its judgment of 9 October 2010, adopted this logic in German case-law. The countries that adopted it and put this provision in the Constitution are Ireland in Article 45(2) of its Constitution and Romania in Article 47(1). Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, I would like the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u328	There is no political issue. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u329	It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Panas has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u331	I don't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u332	No, there's no point, Mrs. Fotio. The parliamentary representative will speak. It's not personal. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u333	I, too, shall submit to the House the document of the Citizens' Counsellor which insults exactly what you are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u334	Sit down. It's not personal, please. Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the second day of the debate on the Revision of the Constitution. As a newly elected Member, it is a particular honour for me to participate in this top of Parliament and in the democratic process. In the light of what has been said, there has been a feeling that we are once again losing an important opportunity to revise provisions requiring real review and substantial interventions outside the micro-party interests. After all, the Constitution is the supreme legal text of regulation not only of the country's political life, but of the system of principles and values. Our prolongation, the Change Movement, has tabled a package of proposals for revision of constitutional provisions in the direction of upgrading the state's institutional functioning, strengthening citizens and consolidating the rule of law. Unfortunately, artificial polarization between SYRIZA and New Democracy and the prevalence of climate of post-court settlements overshadowed the debate on the constitutional review, largely cancelling the historic value of the project. As a result of the debate, the historic opportunity for necessary sectors and brave steps forward, which were included in the proposals of the Change Movement, some of which concerned, I say, Article 24 on climate change. Our prolongation has proposed the introduction of the state's obligation to adopt actions to tackle climate change and to protect biodiversity. Article 24, however, remains out of review. Article 25, new technologies and fourth industrial revolution: We proposed that the Constitution should provide for actions to safeguard human rights and a fair distribution of the wealth produced in the modern environment of technological development and artificial intelligence applications. These areas, of course, also touch on the primary sector, the rural development sector, which I have the honour of addressing. However, let me focus on provisions which are part of the revised provisions and which are part of the wider theme of family institutions, marriage, maternity and childhood, as well as the rights of people with disabilities. These are issues which concern and raise a very wide part of our society. These provisions - in this case Article 21 of the Constitution - fall within the framework of the protection of human and social rights. There has been a lot of talk and a lot of ink has been done to protect these rights, which must not only be guaranteed constitutionally and legislatively, but essentially, through government policies and directions. These provisions lay down the framework for the protection of the freedoms of individuals, their rights according to the family situation, their social status, their particular biological and mental abilities. They are, in other words, setting a framework for the existence and coexistence of the individual in a democratic society, making it a community of democracy. In short, these articles cannot remain empty. They should always be a guide to policy making in a progressive and philosophical direction. So we are positive about the revision of Article 21(1) as a government obligation to guarantee minimum guaranteed income as a minimum level of decent living, and that is because not only is it an essential axis of our policy of prolonging the impotence, but above all because it must be shared with the institutions of the State the importance that the constitutional legislator attaches to this state obligation. Furthermore, when it comes to guaranteeing social rights to health, we are not negative in Article 21(3). Health is a very important real human condition and it directly refers to the relationship between healthy man and prevention. Finally, we agree that the addition to Article 21 of a new provision as paragraph 7, which will protect public goods such as water, should of course not be understood as a guarantee of bureaucracy and the interests built upon it. The question, of course, is whether these interventions actually promote the Constitution as a more progressive direction by giving added value to individual and social rights. Are individual and social rights strengthened in the protection of the social state and the rule of law? Do they give a substantial signal to the need for a more progressive society that embraces diversity? Do they aim to create a state welfare, social justice and fair services mechanism? The reflection should therefore be strong for all of us today as to whether the review process in which we are involved is necessary, useful and beneficial for the present and future of the country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity to revise the constitutional text, the absolute regulator of the policies of the respective government, provisions relating indeed to the citizen and the quality of his everyday life, unfortunately, has been lost. Provisions relating to bureaucracy in the country, the bureaucracy that is possible for administration and for justice remain untouchable. This review process does not care about the suffering that the citizen suffers as a persecutor, and that is why he unfortunately remains within Parliament's doors. It should be made clear, however, that this responsibility is borne by the sterile political controversy which took place in the previous House, which actually did not dare to focus on the real and burning political and social issues. He was caught in closed interventions to facilitate the respective system of power. The role of the Constitution, however, is super-party and must provide solutions, defending social goods and acquired assets, strengthening political stability, guaranteeing Greece's status as a modern European country on the international map. The new Constitution should recognise the need to adapt to the new digital age, to changing the social structures of refugee flows, to threatened climate change, to new economic and business events. In this light, the Constitution should be what always preserves the right of the worker, the unemployed, the luxury, the disabled person, to enter a new advanced society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr. Pana, for the time. Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA took the initiative in July 2016 to open the public debate to build the first Greek constitution after the memorials, in whose name were brutally violated by the social, labour and pension rights of Greek citizens. The Government of New Democracy today comes and rejects any democratic and progressive proposal made by SYRIZA in the first review process, although during the review debate it was indifferent to public consultation. Its refusal is revealing and indicative of the policy it wants to pursue in the economic, labour and social life of the place. It's revealing about her development strategy. The proposals of the New Democracy favour one single thing, the development of an inconsistent neoliberalism that the New Democracy wants to safeguard through the Constitution, which, unfortunately, will not take long to bring about its consequences. I am also going to talk about the second section we are discussing today, because I believe, as the SYRIZA Head of State at Work also said, that it has a direct reflection on the daily lives of citizens, compared with all the other issues we will discuss in the context of the Review. The decisions we will make are capable of protecting hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, workers, unemployed, insured and retired persons, and this is indeed the only purpose of SYRIZA, to protect them for at least nine years from the arbitraryness of political choices, whether it comes from outside mandate or because of ideological convictions and political choices of the governments concerned, such as today, unfortunately. And look out! This is neither constitutional inflation nor an attempt to give constitutional weight to the political choices of our prolongation. We are trying with our proposals to protect and maintain the current direction of the Constitution, following the reasoning of the constitutional legislature and empowering more comprehensive basic principles that have been systematically violated, especially during the second memorandum. In Article 22(1), we have only completed with our proposal one word, the word 'age'. And we said: 'All workers, regardless of sex, age or other discrimination, have the right to equal pay for the work of equal value.' Our proposal was rejected by the New Democracy and the Greek Solution. Why did we propose this? We have proposed this in order to avoid again being embarrassing and completely inexpensive regulations, such as the under-paid wage for young people under the age of twenty-five, which was introduced by New Democracy in 2012, and which led to an unpaid work for young people, although they provide equal work. Obviously, the New Democracy intends to reintroduce this shameful provision and that is why it rejects our proposal. Then the New Democracy has used as a pretext the reduction of very high unemployment and paid young people's wages to EUR 510.95 mixed, i.e. a 32% reduction compared to the EUR 751 threshold prior to the memoranda and lower than the EUR 586 communiqué. The Memorandum of Understanding that we will help young people to integrate into the labour market, from the result, was unfounded and completely inappropriate, not to say unacceptable, because it legalised the labour exploitation of young people and, of course, did not have the results pursued in figures and percentages. In Article 22(2), the proposal of SYRIZA is that the minimum wage must be fixed by a national general collective labour agreement and not by the law, as set out by an act of a Ministerial Council in 2012. What is the reason New Democracy does not accept this proposal? Is she afraid of free negotiations? Does it want to be able to intervene in order to determine and reduce wages? What about the Change Movement? Obviously, you are intended to repeat the second memorandum outside the memoranda and to reduce wages by legislative regulation, contrary to the existing Article 22(2), which defines the subsidiarity of state regulation. In Article 22(1), we want and propose that the principle of more favourable regulation of collective agreements, which was abolished in 2012, should be enshrined in the Constitution. In August 2018, as soon as the country came out of the memoranda, we restored this principle, which you effectively abolished by development law again. You, of course, do not accept this in your public positions and say that you have not abolished it. Then why don't you accept SYRIZA's proposal? It is clear that the constitutional safeguarding of the principle of more favourable regulation is also necessary in order to protect and support the world of work. It will have a direct imprint in the life and daily lives of tens of thousands of workers. Article 22(5) now states: 'The State provides for the social security of workers'. It is a general and vague wording that has been allowed several times because of it. We propose the following: 'Social security is a right. The State is obliged to ensure effective protection against all insurance risks through a single, public, redistributive system, universal coverage, which operates on the basis of the principles of solidarity and remuneration.’ Nothing photographic, no political manipulation. I think we all agree that all these principles come from the social security institution. Why do you reject SYRIZA's proposal? And the Change Movement agrees? Does the Change Movement not want to protect the public character of the insurance system? In Article 22(2), we have unilateral recourse to arbitration. We have talked a lot about these at previous meetings. Unilateral referral to arbitration is already protected by the Constitution. With the second memorandum you abolished it. The S.T.E. The Commission's proposal was based on the principle of non-constitutionality. With the development bill, we say that you have effectively abolished it. You do not accept this, you say that it is still true, and that is why you rejected SYRIZA's objection of unconstitutionality. So why don't you make it more constitutional? Why don't you come and shield the possibility of workers together? In Article 21(1), you propose to add a subparagraph that 'the State shall ensure that all citizens have decent living conditions through a minimum guaranteed income system', excellence. We propose that "the state guarantees, through universal social services and income support, a decent level of living for all". What New Democracy introduces is the notion of income alone. But it is not income, it is the limit, the level of living, which we must guarantee. Even if one receives the minimum guaranteed income, but does not have access to health services or other critical services, it does not guarantee a level of life that corresponds to the needs of the time. I really cannot understand why this SYRIZA proposal is not accepted. Will the New Democracy not ensure universal social services for all? The SYRIZA also proposes adding paragraph 7, the content of which is to say: "Basic social goods such as water and electricity and their distribution networks are subject to public service status and are public control". Show us your intentions. You'll privatize PPC. I hope it doesn't do the same with the water. I'm the only one who reminds you of this is S.H.E.'s decision. determining the privatization of HSY and the transfer to HSY and its last shares. As far as rights and freedoms are concerned and despite the opposite, supposedly progressive, rhetoric, the New Democracy in most cases was also costed with the extreme conservative positions of the Greek Solution. He refused to vote on SYRIZA's proposal to ban discrimination on grounds of sex or sexual orientation. What is lacking in the proposals of the New Democracy is the real debate, with lessons from the extensive memorandum period and from the new threats to social and political rights. Unfortunately, the New Democracy is solely responsible for the discount of the top parliamentary procedure, trapped in its ideological ideologies and political purposes once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, too. Mr Katsotis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance you have shown to put forward. This system of man-made exploitation cannot guarantee equal individual and social rights and equality, as you say, towards laws. We believe that the confrontation of the New Democracy and SYRIZA on who enlarges, who defends individual and social rights, is false. Neither one, nor the other! You both cut it. Invoke the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, its decisions on best practices, as you say. What and who are best practices for? Best practices are the logic of the minimums, which all of you serve. The working class that creates the huge wealth is at the bottom! You want to satisfy even basic needs, despite the enormous rise in productivity, science, technology. It has minimum income, minimum pension, minimum health, welfare, education, barely survive. Minimum for the many to ensure much for the few! Best practices for monopolistic business groups are cheap labour, work according to production needs, constant reduction of funding for health, education, social welfare, social security, the suppression of racing and, on the other hand, warm money to business groups from the robbery of the people. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Everything you've done away with, you call them pathogens of the past, causes of the crisis. And you accepted the BSE position which requires that it should not be restored, because it will undermine growth. So refuse to restore collective agreements. You rejected the JRC's proposal to guarantee full freedom of collective bargaining and collective agreements in the private and public sectors, the strength of the most favourable with the mandatory application of all across the country. Contrary to the Brutsi - Ahtsioglou Act, you abolished the collective bargaining for the lowest wage and will be shaped by a government decision and on the basis of competitiveness, i.e. ensuring profitability. Mrs Ahtsoglou has today attempted to renounce this SYRIZA class option, claiming that this arrangement would be temporary until the minimum wage reaches 751 euros. Really, where does that come from? From nowhere, it's words! With a tool to associations of persons you have achieved a overwhelming blow to collective bargaining. SYRIZA maintained the Act of Ministerial Council 6/2012 and the New Democracy legislated a few days ago the supremacy of the operational contract, the contract of association of persons towards the local, homogeneous, sectoral, abolishing any other arrangement. Your aim is to further reduce the average wages of workers, individual contracts of employment. There is no connection between this whole process and the guarantee of free collective bargaining. Do not, however, think that the labour movement will accept this policy. Protection of trade union activity, right to strike. You're saying it's guaranteed by the Constitution. The new Republic, through the development law, established the trade unions register, facilitating the control of workers directly from the employer and its people. That is why you rejected the JRC's proposal to ensure the confidentiality of personal life from the collection and processing of personal information and a total ban on the collection, processing of data relating to trade union and political action. Apart from demanding a majority of 50+1 at the general assemblies for the formation of a quorum - which is the work of the SYRIZA - the New Democracy is coming with the electronic vote to strike the live participation of the workers themselves in the general assemblies, in every collective process and in particular in the actual abolition of the strike, since the vote on the strike will be done electronically and in front of the employer. Protests are being curtailed in the name of market operation. That is why you rejected the JRC's proposal for a full guarantee of the right to meet and meet those in our country at the same time as abolishing any restrictions on public meetings. You take steps to prevent the reintegration of the labour movement, its class character against the social society, which wants consensus and compromise with the anti-government policy. Employment opportunities, public works programmes, part-time work, contractors and other temporary flexible labour relations do not constitute the right to work, as you say. Besides, no one believes it. You rejected the JRC's proposal to remove Article 103, which prevents it, cancels the right to fixed and permanent work by prohibiting the conversion of contracts into an indefinite period. Otherwise, you're talking about protecting work! The abolition of which protective measures, such as facilitating redundancies and groups, the abolition of allowances - after the trial period took place a year - the withdrawal of the so-called management right, i.e. imposing the choices of the employer, constitutes a protection for work? Young girls are obliged to sign a condition that they will not become pregnant and otherwise the employment relationship will be resolved. In case this is not the case, war begins to give rise to resignation. Elastic working relationships which outweigh, cancel whatever rights in the child's maternity leave, upbringing the child to the maternity allowance, provided that they are two days of insurance. There is also no way that self-employed and rural women are excluded. This is not all the protection of maternity. You're kidding when you say so. Thousands of children are out of childhood, thousands are workers from fifteen years of age instead of in the educational process, living their childhood. These, gentlemen, do not constitute protection granted by the state of childhood, as you claim. In Article 21 you talk about protecting the youth, old age, disability and the care of the most deprived. What are the special measures for youth? Are class barriers to education, terms of pay or work that are worse, or is the generalization of the apprenticeship in terms of a Franco-German? What are the special measures to protect old age? Or is there any public protection structures for the elderly? What protection does the state provide to disabled persons? Is the logic of functionality, which under the new regulations reduces disability rates by abolishing any protection? It's all your work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. And to come to the insurance that is linked to all of this and is a permanent front to the workers and the people. The objective of the capital for the abolition of the social, compulsory and public nature of the insurance is expressed and permanent. In view of the viability of the system, the alleged distortions, as described above, are deducted by the governments of the capital. You say that the state cares for the social security of workers. That's what the Constitution says. But with a tail of what? "As the law defines"! It's the window the people say. And what will the law define? The experience of reinsurance laws is high, breaking benefits, pensions, insurance expectations, years of age. The announcement of New Democracy's new insurance policy provides for the worker, the self-employed to know what contributions he will pay, but he will not know what he will get. He'll be at the mercy of the market and stock market gambling. Social security is transformed from a social right into a personal matter and an individual risk. The insured will be customers, private insurance investors, various occupational fund investment programmes. And you all agree on this. It will lead to the completion of the decommissioning of the state and of the employer by insurance contributions and guarantees, which, to date, they have provided. The reduction in contributions with the argument of non-wage costs will further reduce the wages of workers. You are committed to the objectives of capital, the European Union. That is why you rejected the JRC's proposal to ensure the public's exclusive nature of social security. There is no neutral attitude to the JRC's proposal to extend the right to strike, banning repatriation, empowerment and others. It's a purely hostile, class attitude in favour of business groups. You want to ensure the necessary conditions for the gun on the head, the movement on the plaster to have a so-called working peace, that is, the end of the tomb silence. The Constitution within this current power of capital, meeting its needs and integrating the commitments of the European Union and NATO, will become increasingly reactionary, harder to the people. The working class has a road to follow, to contribute with its struggles to the instability of the barbaric system and to the claim of its own power. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Please have the floor for Mrs Kallipe Vetta from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Constitutional Review is one of the crowns of our parliamentary action, and that is why it requires an increased effort for all of us to work constructively to take advantage of this opportunity. With today's debate, as with those that will follow, we come to a constant reflection of the evolution of the culture, the material corrections and additions to the constitutional text, the need to regulate issues arising from reality and social needs. Above all, the issue of the political fixation of the Constitution, to make a reference to the recent past, is its mistreatment due to the Memorandum of Understanding and Cheques. We have lived a period which, thanks to the sacrifices of the people and the policy followed by SYRIZA, is now a long time ago, when the constitutional reports have accepted, to say discreetly, significant pressures to serve internal and external-cycle requirements. With this experience we had to go out more wisely and shield the Greek Constitution with a regulatory authority that would ensure even more social and individual rights than antidemocratic practices. If we want to return fully to an era of institutional normality, we must shield our society, political practice and therefore the constitutional charter with regulatory references that broaden democracy and citizenship, strengthen equality, protect the whole population against injustice and discriminatory behaviour. Why, in order to make the connection to today's unity, which mainly concerns the protection of work, but also other fundamental rights, can one of the majority Members who are absent from the Chamber today, as you can see, if the introduction of the subordinate wage for young people under the age of twenty-five years which was made by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK in 2012 is constitutionally consistent with Article 22(1), which stipulates that all workers, regardless of sex or other discrimination, have the right to an equal pay for work of equal value? Or is it correct to exclude sectors and workers from collective labour agreements, provided for in the development law that you have recently voted on? We were critical and condemned by the relevant Council of Europe body to monitor the European Social Charter as a country of criticism and condemnation. In this context we have proposed that there should be an explicit guarantee in the Constitution that the provision for equal pay and equal work should be mentioned regardless of age so that young people will not be treated again as second-class citizens. Unfortunately you did not agree on this proposal. I just hope you don't have any thoughts of restoring this shameful provision. At this point in general, there is also the significant difference in our perceptions. You think even if you cover it in detail sometimes that the state should not intervene anywhere, that it should not commit society with restrictions and controls, even if it concerns checks on compliance with laws and rules that protect citizens' rights. We support the fact that there is a sphere of rights which are inalienable between them and social rights. These are the rights which fall within the particular section we are debating today, namely the right to personal freedom, to the protection of family, marriage, maternity and childhood, the rights of disabled persons and the protection of the working and social rule of law. These rights, I would say, are at the heart of the rights that the state must protect in order to strengthen the free will of its citizens. Why can an impoverished citizen, a citizen without access to health, social security and work be free from the environmental restrictions? My answer, as I hope most, is negative. Or, as our rapporteur says, in the constitutional review, the essence of our confrontation is that we regard social rights as a precondition for the autonomy of people. We therefore support freedom without protection of rights, so without a definition of the protection measures that the Constitution must describe is an empty meaning. That is why we want a Constitution that is more regulatory, descriptive and social law, a Constitution not regulating social relations, as we are accused of, but also a report of ideas, a constitution that will incorporate lessons from recent social and political history without evoking into a factual and consumable record of the context. That is why we are careful, but not out of date in the wording of our positions, and that is why we are seeking consent. However, there are examples which concern us about the mutual exercise of consensus required by the constitutional review. For example, we have made a clear proposal in Article 5(2) to incorporate the ban on discrimination based on sex or sexual orientation. However, the New Democracy has refused to vote in favour of this proposal. Did he consider that discrimination based on sex or discrimination resulting from sexual choices is a fashion, an excess supported by the majority rapporteur, so does not have to defend the Constitution? He wanted this to flatter the most conservative reflexes of society and parliament, I would say? Whatever the motive, the answer is disappointing for the world that believes in the freedom of the individual and his choices. We have also proposed that the public audit of basic social goods, such as water, electricity and their distribution networks, should be effectively safeguarded. Unfortunately, the New Democracy rejected the proposal because it supports the privatisation of social goods, as was seen by the recent increases in PPC tariffs from 15% to 20%. All this leads to the depreciation of the business. In conclusion, I should like to mention briefly the concern we have shown for a more substantial amendment to Article 21(1), which refers to the constitutional provision for minimum guaranteed income. Let me remind you here that we had made a proposal for a law since 2005 and had been rejected. We, although this provision is legitimate and necessary, have proposed that it be deepened by reference to the question of access to social services. For example, people with disabilities face many problems of equal access that are not just financially. I know that, for many years now, he has been a member of the Paralympic Committee and I know that it is not enough to have an intervention with a subsidy policy, but we need a holistic approach that includes structures, social services, access to public space, culture, sport, flexible working relationships and so many other elements that favour the integration of people, which are now, in one way or another, excluded from the public space and from the public sphere. The text of the revised article is a principle, but, in my opinion, it is incomplete and cowardly. We could do more. Ladies and gentlemen, the Revision of the Constitution is a historic moment, a celebration of democracy which our ancestors defended with struggles the last of which, the struggle of the Polytechnics, is the most recent one as a memory and experience. I call on you in this light of the defence and deepening of democracy to address the issue of reform on more progressive terms by giving the signal to a society that expects us to express that legislative power is lamenting its concerns and dreams for a better life, for a tomorrow inclusive and marginalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u342	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the top process of the constitutional review in which we have the honour of participating, gives the opportunity to all political forces to act creatively in a progressive direction and content the new signal of the fourth technological revolution. It enables us to overcome the country's global crisis at an economic, democratic, social and cultural level. Here, then, is the field of ideological confrontation and conflict, the introduction of new constitutional reforms for transition to the future with clear signal of defending the people's interests away from neoliberal populism. The current process can and must create conditions for overcoming many causes of the crisis. It certainly wasn't the Constitution for the Crisis, but it was one of its main victims. In the context of the crisis, a constitution or otherwise a constitutionalization of the memorials imposed, of course, by the hegemony of lenders was established. It required derogations in the field of social, economic and democratic rights. In this context, we seek to have wider consensus, despite the great ideological differences we have. We are against neoliberal dogma, we defend the social democracy of people's rights and freedoms, the direct involvement of the people in planning the future, the dawn that sets out the avenues of young generations, equality, social justice without human exploitation. In particular, in the area of social and democratic rights, our differences are great. This is not a subjective claim. It is reflected in our proposals, which you will obviously reject, because you are moving on the other side and representing different interests. We want social rights not to be poor rights in terms of regulation and not only the rights of the poor. Social rights, such as education, work, social security, health, culture and the environment, do not only concern the weakest. Precisely because they protect goods necessary for the development of personality, it is necessary to protect themselves with the same efficiency as individual rights. With the revision of paragraph 1 of Article 22 of the Constitution, the abolition of discrimination on the grounds of age is a deficit. It is very important that we also have a constitutional backing. We want the disgraceful arrangement of the underpaid wage never to be repeated again, which, of course, sent thousands of our young people abroad, thousands of our young people to immigration. You remember, of course, the provision, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and the Change Movement, it is the one you voted on, that you applied because of your obsession with the recipes of the International Monetary Fund. But you really have to explain why you now do not want this arrangement, this provision to include constitutional aid. With the revision of paragraph 2 of Article 22, we are shielding the collective autonomy and the basic principles of collective bargaining. They must have a constitutional dimension, since they are not only an institution for the protection of collective bargaining, but they also strengthen their function as a lever to avoid unfair competition that you so strongly support. I ask: why do you not want your principles, the principles of capitalism to respect them and include a constitutional provision? The functioning of collective autonomy has recently been affected by the multi-legislative draft you have voted on, the effective abolition of unilateral referral to arbitration, on which we have raised in plenary and a plea of non-constitutionality. It is consistent with our principles that the trade unions are a core of progress and should have the tools to perform their role. On the contrary, if you could, you would have abolished the syndication with the anti-gaut that distinguishes you. Although we have also made use of the provisions governing the minimum wage by decision of the Minister, we now think it is time for their workers and trade unions to recapture this place, never to be removed from a troika outside or outside again. With paragraph 4 we are proposing the abolition, once and for all, of the shameful provision for ordering services as a response to the sacred right to strike. Of course, we want to end the times that you have taken courses for workers in cleanliness, seamen and teachers, because this is slavery, ladies and gentlemen, and nowhere in the European area is maintained and there are no such anachronistic provisions. It is a reproach to survive in our legal and labour culture. Forced work is reminiscent of other times. It lets history go back to the darkest days of feudal societies. But a lot has been going on since then. Societies are moving forward and moving forward. This should be remembered by your hyperconservative components. I shall close my speech, ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal for a revision of Article 22(5). This proposal concerns social protection. According to our proposal, social security is a right and not a provision. We are in favour of a public, distributive, universal system that provides adequate benefits for citizens. The only reason why you do not vote for this proposal, as illustrated by your latest relics, is obviously because you want to give social security to individuals, to privatise it. This will exclude millions of our fellow citizens from pension, welfare and care. You'll turn the watch of history into the distant past. Our proposal is based on the basic humanitarian principle of solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposals speak at the heart of Greek society. They deplore the need for more democracy, for the protection of work, health rights, social security and education. Outside the crisis we learned - unfortunately, in the most painful way of society - that our Constitution is necessary to shield itself against the law of need. We must condone our supreme law with all those traditions that have contributed to progress, growth and prosperity. These, ladies and gentlemen, have nothing to do with either balanced budgets or the excellence of the few. It has to do with many, with humanity, with the needs and interests of the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u344	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. I now ask Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. Inequality is inherent to the exploitation system, because it ensures the concentration of wealth among the few of the exploitation of human beings. Therefore, it cannot be the Constitution of a philosopher, since it safeguards the interests, the privileges, the power of the dominant class, namely the bourgeoisie, and above all, it enshrines individual property in the means of production. Classic your policy, classic and Constitution, as much as you are trying to make it look good and impose its respect as something that promotes law, equality and human rights. No, he doesn't. Moreover, it is a timely example of the draft law which is currently being discussed in the committees for the liberalisation of the energy market, under this heading 'Modernisation of PPC, privatisation of PPA etc.', where you are speeding up the process of liberalisation of energy. What kind of social right do you say it's guaranteed? Is access to energy guaranteed? But you consider it a commodity that passes into the capitalist's jaws and sells it extremely expensive to maximize its profit. This, however, marks energy poverty for the people and the scanning of labour rights in the industry. In other words, we see in this example how wages, rights, intensification, the take-off of accidents at work, expensive tariffs for workers' people's households, a ruthless hunter of those who are unable to pay the bills - a fire that can reach the auction. The same is done with the privatisation of EYDAD and EYDAP, where not only does the right to access the universal good of water be guaranteed, but you also consider this commodity to be a commodity. There is therefore no protection of individual and social rights, because in practice you are stumbling them. Let us read the third memorandum and understand it. Here the previous SYRIZA government has also come to criminalise the protest in the auctions, which is of course being held by the current New Democracy government. You pretend, therefore, that individual and social rights are being guaranteed, while all that is guaranteed is the right to the capitalist, to its profitability, and to redeem social property, property belonging to the people. With concessions - privatizations over the last decade of all governments, move rapidly. That's why through the Revision of the Constitution, the one we're talking about, what are you trying to do at the same time? Modernise it with the capitalist restructurings that have taken place in the European Union and its legislation. That's what you're doing. In other words, you are integrating the development of the Euro-Union framework and of a constitution, such as liberalisation of transport, telecommunications, liberalisation of energy, the generalization of the flexible working relationships, and so on, which have walked faster through the memoranda. Therefore, the new Constitution becomes more reactionary than its review and, of course, you refused proposals from the JRC, such as the overtime modernisation of the separation of State-Church. What were you afraid of? In most Member States this has passed. You refused the JRC's proposal to abolish the reactive and disgusting provision of Article 107 on the privileges of foreign and armaments capital. Yes, you have, since 1952, provided special tax exemption privileges for shipowners and foreign capital. It is a challenge for seafarers to pay more taxes than shipowners. And yet, that is decades ago, or even have tax-free oil along with airlines and big-sizers, and there is no duty-free oil in the farm. That's your class policy. This article does not even touch it. You do not touch it in all the revisions that have been made. Why? But why the rights of capital are supported by people's rights rather than by people's rights. At the same time, you did not accept our proposal that mineral wealth, ores, hydrocarbons, as well as natural wealth, such as rivers, lakes, lakes and saints, caves, thermal sources and archaeological sites, should be exclusively public property and should not be granted for exploitation to third parties. Also, there should be social goods water, electricity, natural gas, the exclusive ownership of the state and not be granted for exploitation to third parties. As well as public areas in the mountainous volumes of our country, without prejudice to paragraph 4, it is forbidden to be granted to third parties for commercial and industrial exploitation. You didn't all accept them. Therefore this constitutional review is designed to further shield the same political system, to be more resistant to doubts, but also to contradictions created by your policy and not to safeguard the individual and social rights of workers who are hypocritical and wishful, since their reference has nothing to do with reality. It is therefore a story of strengthening the popular sovereignty of individual and social rights with this Review. Your aim is to recreate the prestige of the urban political system, which has been particularly shaken in the years of the crisis, due to a monument, because of anti-grassroots policies, because of the inconsistency of speech and works, so that it looks more beautiful. But no matter how many paints you use, barbaricity, inhumanity and cruelty are not hidden. It's only overthrown.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. I would now ask Mrs Agathopoulos to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Constitutional Review, the top political and parliamentary process in which we have the honour of participating, ladies and gentlemen, is a supreme responsibility, both for the parties and for all of us Members. Our Constitution contains all the fundamental principles, the rules governing the establishment and exercise of state power, but also the acquired rights, individually and collectively, of all citizens residing in that country. The Constitution of Greece is the fundamental law of the state, the charter of increased formality, with which all the rules of law of the legal order must agree. And why am I saying all this? I am saying this because with the debate we have been holding these days, it is the right opportunity to put things back on the right basis and to remember what really is the importance of this text of the Constitution. Because the Greek Constitution is what I mentioned above. It is not the barn which has been constantly stumbled in the time of the crisis with its memorials and all their unconstitutional provisions, which has led to their remorse in the eyes of the citizens, but also in its depreciation and frustration, during the legislative process in the years of the crisis. The most important reason why SYRIZA took the initiative to launch the constitutional review was with the country's exit from the memoranda, to create at the same time the charter for the new era that will take into account the lessons of this period, the period of crisis, and will set all those guarantees for the protection of all the fundamental principles of a modern democracy. It will shield rights, but it will also deepen even further to democratic principles that can finally restore confidence in the relationship between citizens and politics, but also protect against neoliberalism, which many here - it is true - are not renounced. And our proposal was just that. Unfortunately, however, with today's review proposal by the majority today, this opportunity to modernise the institutions and deepen democracy and rights is lost, because the proposal that we have today in our hands is, ladies and gentlemen, an ideological regression even for the New Democracy itself, since it is much more conservative than the proposal she had tabled in 2014. It is anachronistic and conservative, and it even rejects liberal ideas. We, ladies and gentlemen, have learned and know that the liberal groups are in favour of individual freedoms. They defend individual rights, such as equality, tolerance and, more generally, free choices. So where are your liberal ideas regarding the revision of Articles 3 and 5, for example? Is it possible in the 21st century that we dare not talk about a neutral religious state? Really, what are we afraid of? Truly, is there a man today who believes that everyone's faith must have a reference to the Constitution, or that it depends on this reference, or that anyone who defends the distinction between these two, automatically dismisses his national identity - have we heard this in here - or, respectively, his religious faith? Ladies and gentlemen, the state must ensure fundamental procedures, such as name, marriage, funeral, the type of oath per se and not propose, as basic regulators, a religious ritual as compulsory and as alternative to political processes. After all, life itself has been given the answer for many years. We are therefore in favour of respect for the religious beliefs of all people, but also of freedom of expression for all people and respect for and a rule of law. In 2019 again refuse to add to Article 5 of the ban on sex, gender identity and sexual orientation. We have ratified international conventions such as the Istanbul Convention, we have recognised rights to homosexual couples, such as the Cohabitation Pact, we have passed the law on essential equality and the legal recognition of gender - this without your votes - and you refuse to make this assumption in our Constitution? Where did your liberal authorities go? It's really a wonder. But there are other important things that you have refused. In addition to individual rights, you naturally refuse to defend both collective and social rights. You obviously do not agree with the fact that social rights, such as education, health and social security, concern the whole population and not just the weakest. And we have heard that from colleagues in your group. Just because these social rights protect goods necessary for the development of personality, they must be protected with the same effectiveness as individual rights. You deny universal and equal access to health. You refuse to guarantee equal pay for equal work regardless of age, because this shameful invention of the under-paid wage for young people under the age of twenty-five was not a mere Memorandumary obligation. It is a fundamental principle of your philosophy and you would have no objection to bringing it back. You also refuse to set the minimum wage by the national general collective labour agreement and prefer state intervention, one of the few state interventions you want. On the other hand, you refuse to guarantee as public goods and under public control water and electricity, but also to protect the public character of the insurance system. You are making us think negatively about you, ladies and gentlemen, thinking, for example, that you are envisioning the privatisation of the insurance system. I would agree with the fact that many colleagues have said that we have lost an opportunity to truly create a modern constitution that will protect and safeguard acquired rights and freedoms that have been so tormented in the years of the crisis. Obviously, there are positive changes, although limited. But there are also positive non-changes, such as maintaining Article 16 as it stands, ensuring public and free education and maintaining the high level of higher education offered by Greek public universities, because you will know, ladies and gentlemen, that they are too high on the list of universities in Greece. I have heard many colleagues talk about the missed opportunity to review Article 16, because some parents should continue to send their children abroad to study in private universities while they could do so in Greece. You know, ladies and gentlemen, in such cases it is very important to whom we have a mandate or who we are finally representing in this Chamber, because at least the vast majority of my friends, my fellow citizens, those I represent, do not have the opportunity to study in general the private universities, whether they are in Greece or abroad. For the vast majority that we represent, we must continue to support public higher education free of charge, and we are not feeling any remorse that we have lost the opportunity of revising this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Georgios Bored by SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Let me say that in the morning Mr Javarras spoke with a twisted man, I would say, argument, with fraudulent journeys, with historical reports of unconnected ones, thrown into a strange mixer, in an effort that he has made in my view to defend something that you yourself - in my opinion always - on the basis of your education, in the background you do not believe it, Mr President. We are depleting, in other words, a debate whether it will be religiously independent of the state, which, for the European states, belongs to the 19th century, Mr Javarra. We don't have to go back to Max Webber's help. We also need to give a practical dimension to the debate here, so that people understand that we do not have any theoretical searches and controversies between us. You don't have to go to Europe. You go to Armenia, where along with Georgia are the oldest Christian Orthodox states in the world and ask them the question, as I have made it to them. "Who pays the priests?". I'm trying to find out. They're looking at me strangely. It is a self-evident answer, Mr Javarra. The question is why are you sticking to these positions? In my opinion, the answer is very practical: because you consider that you have an election audience there. You have some extreme "crossmen" election, which can be recruited on a case-by-case basis, for example in the fight against the Prespecies Agreement, to go down the sidewalk and then flee to their beds and when your position changes, let's go for others. Can I tell you something? Do you remember what happened when the political marriage in Greece was guaranteed? Torpedo, from "torpedo on the foundations of the Greek family", "it is possible to dissolve the Greek society". And then calm down. What about the IDs? SYRIZA didn't do it, but a superior friend of the Syrian belief, Mr. Simitis. Do you remember what happened to this matter? What am I saying? Rear of history. That's the conclusion, and I don't think it's arbitrary. I now come to something you said in your speech yesterday, which had a theoretical formation and, in my opinion, formalistic, but we are going further. You wondered about the fact that there was talk of the post-democracy committee. I did not understand whether you put it as a reflection or reject it as arbitrary reflection of the SYRIZA. I think that here we are, we have to have a debate on this issue, because otherwise we are in danger of all this debate on constitutional review and what we say to the super-positive level of its history, can take ceremonial aspects on some of it. May I tell you what I want to make as a reflection, Mr Javarra? Berlusconism is a teratogenicity in democracy, the decision of a great economic power to seek people's legitimacy and rule the country. I consider it teratogenic and put it into discussion. Beyond blusconism, there's something more morbid. What? Don't seek people's legitimacy and want to go through with a representative. In my opinion, it is a morbidity, in addition to beerlusconicism. I'll tell you some examples of post-democracy, Mr. Voridis. For example, Mr. Voridis bails in favour of the forcedness of the wood. It is not a good expression, but the people would say it 'it needs a matsuki'. Mr Chrysochoidis is coming, who has no personal legitimacy and is trying to apply this doctrine, considering that he brings to the government know-how of subjection, because Mr Chrysochoidis may have probably made some higher school in it, and Mr Vorides does not do so much more effectively, but he is more ambitious to do so without legitimacy. Another example of post-democracy: Mr. Petsas has taken over the role of the government representative. You know what? I fear that, in post-democracy, politicians may be roles, faces and, above all, roles. You remember what you said about the Prespecies Agreement. You adopt her, and you do well. Mr Petsas comes in and says that for the first time Greece - listen to me - takes part in the Balkans. Why does it say so? I'll tell you why he's saying it. Because what I'm saying now may not be heard anywhere and what Mr. Petsas says - and it's a virtual reality - can become a flag. I'll tell you - if you want - a more intrigue example. The day before yesterday, Alexis Tsipras took part in the course of the Polytechnic. You can make your criticism of this. Mr. Petsas comes out, this role of the Government representative, and he says he went for tourism. When does it say it? When the Prime Minister of Greece goes to London to collect some crumbs from Chichipa's shine, because that's the essence, no matter how he's going to present it later. Some shine crumbs, the Prime Minister of Greece! Finally, what I'm saying 'the post-democracy' is not individual make news. It's a total, virtual reality, a glass world. Please do not consider this to be an attempt to monopolize a reflection. It is a struggle for the autonomy of the political system. I'll tell you something. Kostis Stefanopoulou, the unimmigrated, from space yours came from. It once made a courageous gesture in this Chamber, which had consequences for him. Eventually, however, the justice came and we were still at the early stage. What do I want to say - ending up - and putting it as a reflection of the whole? Finally, does politics and politicians end up being some communication totem, dependants, blackmailers, pressurized - or I don't know what else - and actually lead to the cancellation of politics and policies? And this would be a course of deterioration, which would result in a substantial - electoral, not only - denomination of the Greek system and a hostage, which, over time, would lead to neutralization of both politics and policies. So I say, until the very last moment of this debate, that we find - where possible - some consensus, some common place, in order to defend these concepts which I have just said, not by disregarding political differences, ideological differences. Because if there were no political differences, we would have no reason to exist as parties and as political forces. They exist, it's for granted, it's objective. Through these contradictions, the country may emerge to go a step further and this could also be recorded in the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u350	Thank you. Mrs Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u351	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional review process is a top democratic process, a great opportunity to deepen democracy, which will not be repeated for at least ten years. We must therefore all stand up to the circumstances, bearing in mind the responsibility that lies with us. It has been evident in the discussions before the committees that there are profound disagreements between the political forces. That's not bad. It is inevitable, despite the idea of those who want and dream about the end of history. It is not bad, because it very simply reveals what each political power is empowering, because it makes it difficult for party hypocrisy and helps citizens to understand the interests of which social group every representative of the people in Parliament is serving. So it would have been expected, in the 21st century, that the views on State and Church relations have substantially converged, that the wording that the Greek state is religiously neutral, that the prevailing religion in Greece is the religion of the Eastern Orthodox Church of Christ, with the interpretative, but a statement that the term "predominant religion" is not a recognition of official state religion and does not result in any unfavourable consequence to the detriment of other religions and, more generally, in the enjoyment of the right to religious freedom. You know, in the words, all the powers of the constitutional arch - I am naturally leaving the fascist voices - accept the religious neutrality of the state. In fact, however, this wording meets the reaction of a party that is supposed to embrace the theories of neoliberalism. The New Democracy and this time it is written with the most conservative voices of Greek society. He insists on wanting to use Christianity as a legitimate ideology of the state, denying religious neutrality. It calls for nothing to change in the current wording of the Constitution, although the broad interpretations of the existing wording create a number of problems. The decisions of the Council of State on the lessons of Religious Affairs are, moreover, recent. These decisions have gathered fires even of friendly authors to the government, as they insist on turning Religious class into a lesson in catechism. We, ladies and gentlemen, tell you directly. The transformation of religion into state ideology, because you wish to continue your flirting with the audience of "Greek Christians" of the seven-year-old dictatorship, has no place in a state that seeks to be called modern and neoliberal. It is not possible in Greece of 2019 for the Minister of Education to be the judge of objections when a Archbishop is elected or metropolitans to be appointed by presidential decree. It is not possible to teach the class of Religiouss at school in terms of religious fanaticism. With regard to the obligations and rights of citizens towards the state, all citizens must be equal, whether they are Christian or not they are Buddhists. Since everyone is equal, all of the state should be directed in a neutral religious way. The state must open its wings and protect all the people who belong and make up the members of this society. I now come to the debate on the religious oath. Since religion does not impose it, how, then, can this be claimed as a state obligation? It is obvious that the attitude of the New Democracy is due to a completely regressive view, which, in the final analysis, is in complete contrast with the teachings of the religion itself that is supposed to defend. What does Matthew’s gospel tell us? “ I say, ‘ You are like me, ’ that is what I ask you not to swear at all. And he continues: “Since I have reason to, he will. Most of these things are wicked in this.’ So, when you say yes, yes, it is. And when you say no, be no. Everything beyond that comes from the wicked man. And in James, what are we reading? “You shall think of me, neither of them, nor of them, nor of any of them; but you must do it; and you must do it; and you shall do it, and you shall do it.” So don't swear. It's just that your yes is yes and not be no. Yet here are supposedly supporters of Christian writings to defend in the Constitution something that is in direct contrast with anything they intend to defend. Hypocrisy. As far as social rights are concerned, the SYRIZA position is completely clear again. Our social rights include education, health, social security, which must concern the whole population. They are goods necessary for the development of personality, which are a prerequisite for human autonomy. It's not just moral obligation issues. It's not just charity issues. They impose specific behaviour on the state. That is why they must be protected with the same efficiency and perseverance, as should individual rights. It is of the utmost importance, of course, that the equal pay for equal work, regardless of age, is explicitly guaranteed, Article 22(1), which we are proposing as a party. SYRIZA has abolished the embarrassing underpaid wage for young people. We believe that we must protect their wage rights so that they do not harm the future, regardless of which government comes to power. Let the New Democracy dare join us in this proposal. Or does he just want to bring this embarrassing distinction back? Nor can I refer to the improvement proposed by us in Article 5(2), so that discrimination is banned on grounds of sex and on grounds of sexual orientation. Even in this New Democracy stands opposite, no matter what happens in society, denying the possibility of self-determination, but which is the highest and at the same time the basic stage of individual freedom. We, ladies and gentlemen, envision a free, truly free society, from stereotypes, from labels, from social structures that serve some and imprison some other, open minds and open hearts, with love and respect for the human being, whoever this is, because this is the left of SYRIZA. Sunday's grand gathering showed that we're here. He showed that we are present and present like a hot breath on your neck! We heard many colleagues from New Democracy yesterday say and say that Constantine Karamanlis brought democracy back to Greece. Indeed, Constantine Karamanlis was the first Prime Minister of Postpopulation. But you know what? Everything he writes doesn't erase. The insurrection and blood of students and students at the Polytechnic University brought democracy, the Left and the progressive forces, which always at the critical times of this place, always came out ahead to defend ideals, homeland, justice, freedom and democracy. That's how democracy came in Greece. So stop this lie industry trying to make the truth that you desire. Stop this industry and the constitutional review. Let this hypocrisy and encryption cease now behind empty words. Or say openly that the post-American state of the 1950s is the model of your so-called new regularity and rename from "New Democracy" to "New Era" or even the last moment here in plenary, take the opportunity to make progress. For a handful of votes you look forward to fishing in the blurred waters of the extreme right, don't hold us standing for another ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u352	Thank my colleague, too. Mr. Constantine Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. "Democracy is the worst city, but we have found no better than that." I'll start with what Winston Churchill said. He said something else, of course, that "the deficit in democracy is easy to find, just as long as you talk to a voter five minutes". Ladies and gentlemen, there are very important lawyers here. Legal is a science that goes everywhere, but that's no one enters. There's a lot of top lawyers here. I see Mr. Voridis, Mr. Javarra, Mr. Gerapetti. I thought with so many lawyers we might have one of the best constitutions in the world. And I don't see that. It's a Constitution with too many gaps. Just say this, making a historical regression. In 1822 with the First National Assembly held in Troizina it was necessary to become a Constitution, that is, a year after the Revolution of 1821. In fact, the Italian Vicentzo Galino did it, as I read. Immediately next year there is a National Assembly in Epidaurus. Then, in Astros, Troizina, we reach Nafplio at the command of Kapodistrias. A controversy begins. That is why we have short-lived constitutions in Greece. The conflict was whether or not the Constitution would support reigning democracy. It starts a monarchal autocratic regime from Otto, which does not apply the Constitution. The 3rd September 1843 is coming with military Dimitris Kallergi along with Macrygiannis and shouts - neither "Holy the Nation" nor "Haly Hellas" - : "Haly the Constitution". And it comes March 1844 and imposes upon Otto the Constitution, for the kings ruled God's mercy. Later, if we have time, we will talk about the infamous religious oath, because we are in trouble. In there I would just remind you that Makrigiannis put the Orthodox faith of the Greeks in order to become a revolution against the establishment of the time, if you like, with the constituencies and the cots. And if there wasn't a Gregory Justice or Papaflessa to raise the genus up in the name of Christ's faith, we'd still be a part of the Ottoman Empire. The tongue didn't unite us. There were heroes of 1821 who didn't know Greek. And yet he was there in the revolution. Love for freedom and common religious faith united them. Makriyannis, what did he write in his memoirs? He spoke of God and of Orthodox Greece. And we're going to another person who invokes him - and you're doing well - who envisioned the United Balkans: Antonis Kyriazis. Does Anton Kyriaz not write in about the Balkans' religious faith? Who's Antonis Kyrias? King Velestinlis or King Ferraeus. The "Hard" and the "Thurium" of King Ferraios are these. Because tradition is not delivered to us, we are delivered to tradition. It is not about where everyone believes, but about the fact that there is a story, a religious feeling, the link that played a catalytic role in the Greek Revolution of 1821. And now we're going to something very important to honor our ancestors from the Constitution. In the 1911-1915 Constitution which was finalised, although it was with the Belgian and French standards, what was the alarming difference between the Greek Constitution, ladies and gentlemen? Do we forget that? We have a debt to our ancestors. It was because it also gave the non-preferential vote. So only the landowners had the right to do so. The only ones who did not have the right by voting to elect were those who were economically dependent as domestic or circus. We do not like words, but dolls we have in today's era, and there are a lot of them, which specifically serve individual interests. So what did the Greek Constitution do? It was much better than the other European states, because it also gave the right to universal suffrage to the non-preferential, i.e. to all the free-thinking Greeks of the time. This has been done and this is the greatness of the Greek Constitution, when it was formed. And after a thousand million waves, until it was formed in 1975. In order not to forget history, how much the Greek Constitution has helped to have freedom of speech and thought. If we were to talk about the articles, we could talk for too many hours. Democracy, the French say, does not need either equality or freedom. Democracy - to agree on something - needs participation. There must be synergy and participation of the Greek. This was the Church of the Municipality as a composition of citizens, to decide on the commons. I want to ask the lawyers. What we say as a Greek Solution - and we tell you, because it is the cornerstone of a democratic culture, so that it can function as a body - is that the Constitution is the immune system of Greece, the state, whatever states, are the antigens, it is the resistance, it is the boulder. Democracy cannot have a boat with a machine. It must have sails, because democracy needs oxygen, to blow a wind of freedom, freedom, ideological perception to sail this ship. So democracy needs participation. Is it possible to speak of a constitution without a constitutional court? And I am addressing the lawyers primarily - I ask as the devil's advocate - where is that lawyer who will judge whether a law is constitutional or not? We're hearing about HISBIA. Is it constitutional or not? Tell me. We're hearing about the law of arbitrary nature. Is it constitutional or not? Tell me. How does the people say they are unconstitutional? Says who? You know, four hundred years ago Roman Catholics had put a man in it and, if anyone went to be sanctified, he had his doubts. He said 'no, not to be sanctified'. He is the so-called 'covenant of the devil'. So the devil's lawyer will come to a constitutional court and question the constitutionality of the laws if it is not for the benefit of the Greek people. Do we have a constitutional court? Oh, no. So how do we judge, ladies and gentlemen, whether a law is constitutional or not? Can we judge it? We cannot judge it because there is no constitutional court. It's a lot of articles. I'm coming to Otta. Is it constitutional to have a Memorandum of Understanding with the Local Government, which will control the budget of the municipalities, while it has passed through the Ministry of Finance's audit mechanism to get final approval? Do you know how many blanks there are? However, the Greeks must feel, through the Constitution, a gloomy, a protection for their social rights, for their motherhood. He's late to retire up to two, three years. Is that a constitutional thing? Isn't it what safeguards freedoms, ideologies and protects citizens? So where is that protection? Revision of the Constitution, but essentially! Why not put what we propose as Greek Solution, specific terms of Members of Parliament? Does it bother you? Mr Georgiou is already doing so in Cyprus, the President of the Legal Affairs of Cyprus. I have too much to say and I don't want to misuse time. What we are saying, not only under the supervision and protection of the state, motherhood, personal freedoms, the right to work, but with the guarantee, with the signature of the state. What we are saying is that there must be a guarantee, that the citizen feels confident. I want to ask, closing with it. Have we forgotten the farewell provision of the Constitution, paragraph 4 and Article 120? It is up to the Constitution to patriotism of the Greeks, if that is what one goes to destroy it by force. Lawyers know you didn't give a lot of interpretation. The legal science didn't penetrate. Maybe, fortunately, it didn't have to. And that's all it says, that it depends on the patriotism of the Greeks, when the Constitution is threatened by force. I close with the religious oath, because on the left you talk a lot about the religious oath. The monarchic regimes of Latin America did not have well with the priesthood. They had banned the religious oath. The religious oath, however, unites the peoples and this leader who did it in Latin America was Chavez. There's a saying that when you're not only interested in yourself, you're strong. When you're interested in others, you're a leader. And when you come back to save the rest of the rest, the remaining, then you're a leader. And a leader really needs to find a vision of how to unite and protect his people. Note what you will vote on in the Revision of the Constitution, because it wants radical, substantial changes. Mr. Tragakis said it very well. We're not representatives. The representative is a tool. We are representatives, we are clones of the Greek people, we represent the verdict of the people. We have to protect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u354	Thank you. The Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Lambroulis, has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece, from the very beginning of the debate on the Revision of the Constitution, has indicated that the current Revision not only does not affect previous reactive changes, but moves on to further shielding the civil system and aligning it with the current needs of the ruling class. In fact, he has tabled a series of proposals, without, of course, being delusional that there can be a progressive and democratic constitution within the framework of the current power of capital. And these proposals call on the people, through the working people's movement, to make them fight arsenal. It is one of the proposals that concerns health. We are talking about the proposal that we have tabled that the provision of health services is not a commodity. To ensure full supply of health care services exclusively from the public sector and completely free of charge, with a ban on business activity. Criterion for this proposal, for health, is that the exclusive producers of wealth, who are workers, have the right to enjoy fully free of charge from the state, complete and modern services of health, welfare and medicines, making use of all the possibilities currently available with the development of science, modern technological and pharmaceutical means, the skilled scientific potential. The fact that the development of a people's health care system is inhibited for full coverage of needs in health care, treatment, rehabilitation, with particular care for mothers, mothers, children, the elderly, people with disabilities, the chronic illnesses, serious or rare illnesses, or that we have drastic cuts in health care, medicines and, by extension, an increase directly or indirectly in payments by patients or the tragic shortages in equipment and personnel in public health establishments, hospitals, health centres, in the EMCDDA, in the PES, in primary health care, etc., is all due to the fact that the driving force of the economy and society we live in is the profit generated by the individual property in the means of production and the exploitation of workers. Just in these socio-economic conditions, whatever health system develops will not satisfy people's needs, because these are costs, both for business groups and for their state, they are an obstacle to their competitiveness and profitability. In fact, the health sector is seen as a lever for the economy and the market, that is to say one of the key sectors that can contribute to achieving the objectives of profitability and strengthening the competitiveness of monopolies in this area. This is achieved, firstly, by increasing the price of labour force - reductions in wages and pensions - but also by reducing non-wage costs, i.e. state and employers' and health services, welfare, medicines, etc. Secondly, it is achieved by the development of so-called 'competitive' and 'economicly viable' health systems. In other words, by strengthening business activity in the industry while deepening the business character of the operation of state health units, further commercialisation of their services. It is precisely these directions and measures that are being implemented that the positions and proposals of all other political forces, which do not question the criterion of business profitability, are moving in the same anti-grassroots direction, regardless of any differences in their programmes. Because only mockery, hypocrisy and extremism are any proposals for constitutional review, declaring words which are far from the reality of millions of workers in our country. Such an example is the reference to effective health services, the safeguarding of the ESS, since the ability and effectiveness of the public health system, in line with the policy of all governments - PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA - always respecting the commitments, the framework and the rules at the same time of the European Union, is related to the adaptation of public units to the rules on entrepreneurship, in order not to burden the state budget. Another example is the removal of disparities, which is cutbacks, so that the state and the insurance funds are uniform, so that state aid is limited to a minimum level of health services for a part of the population, those mentioned in the texts of the weakest and most vulnerable, mainly below the poverty line. However, these are defined in the anti-grassroots treaties, from Maastricht, the White Paper, the Stability Pact, the Europe 2020 strategy, which all other parties accept. These are the checks in the third memorandum, which it holds well. Thus, no government that moves within the framework of the European Union, regardless of the management mix - say the restrictive, expansive, etc. - it cannot satisfy the current people's needs in health, welfare and drug services, since this policy, within the walls of the European Union, is giving birth to and reproduces conditions and factors directly and in the long term the supply of the health of the people. They increase overall its standard of living. Thus, any measures taken objectively cannot exceed the limit of better management of poverty and impoverishment, without, of course, directly or probatively abolishing it, and any crumbs carried from the poor to the impoverished are not essential benefits. However, even these crumbs are dependent on economic indicators and budgetary discipline. Therefore, the margin for waiting, deceiving and compromise with poor house benefits in the name of patriotism and national consensus is not, and much more any constitutional proposals, reports are the gold wrapping up of deception, mockery and hypocrisy of the urban political system. Compatibility with the losses and the crumbs in health means to the people that he puts his own life as a fuel for the revival of the capitalist economy, sacrifice on the altar of the profits of capitalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr. Andreas Michaelides from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u357	Ladies and gentlemen, the timing of the constitutional review we are discussing these days has its own features, which are certainly related to the country's deep and protracted economic crisis, its multiple links with the crisis of political institutions, inequality and attacks on rights. Clearly, the consequence of these assumptions is that political parties must be lifted to the requirements of the constitutional review in a way that disarms social changes and needs, has a sense of historical and perspective and is clearly placed in the political arguments, without overlooking the need to achieve broader and wider consensus. I believe that SYRIZA's attitude to constitutional reform has been guided by these principles since the beginning of the previous parliamentary term. The very nature of our proposals with the three axes as determined, namely, the deepening and widening of democracy, secondly, the resurgence of neoliberalism and the strengthening of social rights, and thirdly, the restoration of confidence in the political system, marks our clear ideological and political position on the various issues, without any evasion. Of course, the attitude of the New Democracy, both during the previous parliament, as well as during the current, Revising Parliament, has effectively blocked any change other than a few articles, moving between conservative logics and attitudes and atmosphericity. Let me come to the first thematic section of the Constitutional Review, namely the one concerning relations between the Church - State, as described in Article 3. Our proposal, as we know, lies in guaranteeing the religious neutrality of the state. At the same time, the term "predominant religion" is maintained, but it is explained in our proposed interpretative statement that it is purely of an indictment and does not signify any discrimination in other doctrines. I consider this to be an extremely balanced proposal towards the clear strengthening of the distinction between the roles of the Church - State - which is extremely weak in relation to not only the European but also the global rule. On the one hand, this proposal recognises the historical and cultural weight that Orthodoxy has for the identity and collective life of the Greeks, on the other hand, that the Greek state is to be guaranteed as a religious neutral state, a state, that is to say, that is, it will not have a public religion, nor will it be legally prosperous towards a particular doctrine, no matter how strong it is to the majority of citizens. The New Democracy and, unfortunately, the Change Movement, which otherwise accuses us of lack of progressiveity, wonders what the reason for such a change in the settlement that has been historically achieved between the Church and the State. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the safeguarding of religious freedoms in Article 13 of the Constitution, it is obvious that historically a strong interdependence has been established so far between State and Church, which obviously creates unfavourable conditions for some citizens who belong to other doctrines or religions or who do not religion. As has often been pointed out, in the Greek case, it was the State that put the Church under its close supervision, effectively limiting its autonomy, but, as we all know, the Church gradually took advantage of this privileged position. Moreover, like the recent decisions of the Council of State on the teaching of Religiouss, it suggests that the culture of consciousness in schools is confused, precisely on the basis of the provision of Article 3, with the teaching of a confession course. We must not forget, too, that about 20% of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights concerning violations of religious freedoms are concerned, unfortunately, only with one state, Greece. An argument that is not expressly expressed usually, but implied, is about the possible weakening of religious emotion. In this regard, it is sufficient to see that, on the basis of international research, such as Eurobarometer, religious faith in the other states of Europe with official religion, Britain, Denmark, Norway, is clearly weaker than the European average. On the contrary, in countries that do not have official religion, such as Ireland, Italy, Romania, Russia, the religious feeling is very strong. In other words, the strength or not of religious conscience has nothing to do with official religion in a state. Finally, with regard to the correlation between Article 3 and national identity, a question which I have seen quite clearly by the Special Rapporteur of the New Democracy in the Review Committee, let me consider it an extremely weak argument. Apart from the fact that indirectly it leads to the position that non-orthodox or non-religious Greek citizens fall short of patriotism and strong national conscience, they cannot answer why in states with religious or dogmatic disparity, such as, for example, in the United States, Germany or even in countries with relatively increased percentages of citizens who say they are atheist, such as the Czech Republic, Sweden, national identity remains strong. Here, let me not forget the participation of other Greek citizens, such as Jews, black Greek citizens in the patriotic struggles of the Albanian Front and the National Resistance. For all these reasons, I think that the apparent non-voting of our proposal is a lost opportunity to strengthen the distinct roles of the Church and State, which would be beneficial to both institutions and also to the Greek society in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u358	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Manolakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of today's section of the revised articles clearly reflect the stress of Officer Opposition to balance between two boats. On the one hand, the Radical Left boat and on the other hand, the fishing vessel of the Progressive Alliance, which is about to drop its nets to voters in the wider middle area. This is a stress not creative, a panic stress I would say, in order to combine SYRIZA's views with the moderate views of the citizens who are moving in the wider middle space and in which the Civic Anti-Civilisation in recent months has thrown bridges. It has therefore tabled a proposal for Article 3 of the Constitution, which finds legal stipulations. This is because, on the one hand, he is reluctant to propose the separation of Church and State, perhaps because he is able to understand - even if he does not admit it - that today's distinctive roles with real ties between States and the Church are a guarantee of maintaining our national conscience and identity, especially at a time when illegal immigration is a major national problem, with multiple consequences. Of course it does not because it is unable to understand that the vast majority of Greek society are opposed to such a separation. On the other hand, however, he wants to close the eye at the left audience, so he submits a proposal that has characteristics of creative ambiguity, a proposal for a religiously neutral state, but with a predominant religion and what everyone understands. None of them, however, said self-evident that since the Greek state is religiously neutral, it is not understood that there is a dominant religion, even with limited legal consequences. The legal consequences of the prevailing religion, moreover, are very specific and have a limited extent. It is based on the holidays according to the Orthodox feasts, it is based on the celebration of the national anniversaries in dogma at the Orthodox temple, the organization of the Orthodox Church as a legal person governed by public law, but also on the state payroll of the clergy. And to remind us - not to forget - that some in the recent past were planning on this issue. As top constitutionalists point out, the proposal of the state's religious neutrality does not match the maintenance of reference to the prevailing religion. Conservation at the same time of the prevailing religion and religious neutrality of the state creates a product of political compromise for political and only impressions. I wonder in this evil proposal by SYRIZA does the interpretative statement on religious neutrality really stress? The answer is no, no need serves the proposed addition, no gap comes to cover, no meaning has such a change, because quite simply in Article 13 of the Constitution, religious freedom is explicitly and unequivocally guaranteed as an individual right, but also the prohibition of discrimination based on religion. It appears from the combined interpretation of Article 3 and Article 13 that the current constitution respects the diversity of other doctrines and acts the absolute freedom of religion, but at the same time the great contribution of Orthodoxy to the nation, to the institutions, to the democratic functioning of the state and to the preservation of our national identity is also recognized. There will therefore be absolutely no improvement from this proposal for revision. On the contrary, only risks such a proposal pose risks for our country's relationship with the Ecumenical Patriarchate, with the Embassy Patriarchates, risks for the relationship between the Church of Greece and the Ecumenical Patriarchate and, more generally, the Orthodoxy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to participate in a major constitutional change, from which there seems to be no benefit but suffering, and we have to do it either to satisfy those who, in reading the Constitution, only arrive until Article 3 and ignore Article 13 or, of course, to satisfy the Civic Response, who must reassure a particular political audience. We in this institutionally inappropriate review proposal are not going to co-operate. And we're not going to collide, because all that serves is the political needs of Officer Response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr. Manolak. I ask Mr. Dritsa from SYRIZA to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. Dear General, colleague, a consortium congressman Piraeus, your highlighting of SYRIZA's proposal and its connection to the Progressive Alliance is not at all appropriate. The proposal has been submitted since 2016. There was no Progressive Alliance at that time. Indeed, many decades ago it has been tabled and it is a permanent, permanent, firm position and a proposal on the left, in the various forms it takes at every juncture, precisely because the revision of the Constitution is not an accidental or compulsory procedure. It is planned that five years after the completion of the previous Review, a new revision of certain provisions may be initiated. This commits and obliges the political forces to assess and reflect on whether they really need or not and what kind of review they need to propose. SYRIZA responded and met this obligation in the best way and, indeed, with unprecedented responsibility a long time ago, not in closed procedures only within Parliament, but in society. He was accused of constitutional activism by Mr. Venizelos and opened up all matters before society, before the scientific institutions, before professional associations, before all the representations of Greek society and, of course, before Parliament. And we arrived right here, with a draft proposal that covers the time-conserved retrogressive provisions, namely those that prevent the completion of the democratic situation of the Greek state, as well as the evaluation of the new needs arising from painful conditions, which must guarantee the defence of society, democracy and the evaluation of an aesthetic perspective regarding what new data is produced for the future of our country and our society. These were our proposals and, when it was time for the process to be initiated in Parliament, we saw the New Democracy presenting a sum, about half the number of constitutional provisions, which were lastingly peaceable, without a coherent web, without an assessment, without a hierarchy, without even a proposal on the kind of review that each of these articles would have. And slowly, as we have all experienced, the concrete nature of the proposal. There is therefore no comparison of who comes into this process with full responsibility, with responsibility and meditation, in terms of the need. Of course, there are differences. We now come to the present issue, which relates first of all to Article 3, to the relationship between the Church and the State. It is an article that, anyone who reads it, if one excludes a phrase, will see that the rest is not mentioned at all in relations between the Church and the State. Regulatory provisions of the Church itself prescribe. This does not, however, create a relationship between Church and State - I do not need to go into details - and this article is revised. On the contrary, Article 1: "The State of Greece is a Presiding Parliamentary Republic, the foundation of the country is popular sovereignty, all powers come from the people, there are for it and the nation and they are exercised as defined in the Constitution", Article 2(1): "Respect and protection of the human value are the primary obligation of the State", Article 4: "Greeks are equal before the law", Article 5: "Each has the right to freely develop their personality and to participate in social, economic and political life", etc. and Article 13, to which other colleagues have referred, to cancel SYRIZA's proposal: "The freedom of religious conscience is inviolable" etc. is among the articles that make the Greek Constitution strict, i.e. it is unrevised. These and some others are unrevised. All this is unrevised because, on the one hand, it is a general agreement which is the basic framework and, on the other, it is what we call 'insurance of individual rights', which cannot be put at risk by correlations. Article 3 does not require protection of such a type, an unrevised article, because it does not refer to any right, nor to any national identity or to any supreme good. On the contrary, it has been used, precisely because of the political and other connections and beliefs which have been unfortunately prevailed, in this case to lead to the erroneous dominance of sovereign rights that the Constitution provides and safeguards, it considers them unrealistic and yet in practice they are not guaranteed, for it is precisely this genius and ideology of national identity with the interconnection of the prevailing religion. It is not surprising that this is the case, when one can understand that the Greek Jew in the religion is not equal in practice, that the Greek atheist in his religious quest is not equal, that the Greek Muslim is not equal, that the Greek Buddhist is not equal in the matter, that the Constitution also guarantees this equality. Why isn't he equal? Because the state itself, in spite of the great democratic conquests and changes, is discriminatory with regard to individual freedoms and undermines them, and precisely does not implement the other provisions, the unrealistic and the strong ones, which give the real substance to the Constitution and its democracy. It is precisely for this reason that this issue of anachronism must be resolved, against which, in fact, the Council of State comes - with one difference, of course - to make the correlation in paragraph 2 of Article 16, which speaks of the State's obligation to ensure religious and national conscience and all of that, but it does not determine which religious, but in any case in connection with Article 3. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the Council of State, by one vote, concludes - instead of the modern Greek state teaching the children of Theology, teaching a history of religions, teaching very serious and genuinely necessary knowledge, opening up minds and shaping modern citizens and strengthening social cohesion - so it ends up leading to the reproduction of a catechical confession, which usually - dominants say so, priests say so, I have heard and discussed it with them too many times - experience says that children are bored! And it is the experience of all of you, ladies and gentlemen, because it is precisely a direction that cannot stimulate the interest of students, Christian disciples. Nevertheless, we insist. Why? For the idea of national identity. My colleague, Andreas Michaelides, said so well before, and we do not need to repeat them. From this point of view, it is absolutely essential that the Greek State, regardless of and for the benefit of the Church and for the benefit of the State, ends with this hypocritical distortion of the national identity of the sovereign religion and distinguish the central issue of the role of the state, which we want. The state can only be neutral vis-à-vis all citizens. Can anyone imagine that the state of the rich or the state of the whites or the state of the blacks can be legal? It's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u362	Mr. Dritsa, please, finish up. You're in 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u363	The historical tradition, which is respected by all of us, cannot substitute the central necessity of state neutrality against such critical and serious issues. From this point of view, it is an opportunity to take a step forward in the direction of modernisation and democratisation of the Greek state, which has taken steps seriously, but still has many delays.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u365	I will not go into social affairs because I do not have time, but also because the New Democracy does not recognise the rights and gender identity and sexual orientation in the 21st century and says 'no, let it stay as it stands', it is - I am not talking about collective agreements, about everything else, and other colleagues have said - a sample of extreme anachronism, which one wonders how this government and this party can insist, in so many changes that have taken place, on returning to the 'ormban' and fearful embodiment of the national state, with an idea that no one can help...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u366	Please, Mr. Dritsa, complete! You've been over time for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u367	I'm done. One word, Mr President. And social cohesion puts it in extreme test, when such horrific and conservative views prevail, and that is very dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u368	Mr Christos Bukouros from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we have agreed to the slightest in any case, in my opinion, does not mean that we have taken the opportunity of this constitutional revision. Of course, the responsibilities are borne, in particular, by the majority of the proposed previous Parliament. And there is another opportunity for a substantial review, which will have a significant impact, both on the country's path and on citizens' quality of life in the coming years. The lost opportunity to revise, in particular, Article 16, with the responsibility of the former government majority of SYRIZA, which deprives Greeks of the right of all young people, all European countries, but also worldwide, to remain a spot in this constitutional reform effort. SYRIZA acts as if there was no historical development in the educational systems of Europe and the world, as if there were absolutely no need to incorporate anything into the Greek educational system, as if there were no need to break this state monopoly, depriving possibilities, opportunities and intensifying the loss of economic and human resources. Not even a word about Article 16. Nor will the previous government majority touch it. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] The same was, of course, the case with the other emblematic article of the Constitution, Article 24 on the environment. The previous majority acted as if we had no environmental change, as if we had absolutely nothing to harmonise, neither in what is happening in the world nor in relation to the coming climate change. It is a dreadful approach, which is proof of the preservation of what, in fact, they are saying progressively in that country. This is a lost opportunity, for which you will definitely apologize in future, even to the new generations that are close to your ideology. There has been a lot of talk today, ladies and gentlemen, about Article 3 on retaining religion, a debate which has brought SYRIZA's pursuits to the surface to put a touch of idealism on the country's Charter, precisely because it had nothing else to do with the basic articles of the Constitution. This effort has become evident through the distortion of reality and constitutional predictions. He refuses to accept that his proposal is not accepted because it is really projected as something that is not. And what do I mean? We all know in this country that the content of Article 3 of the Constitution is a historical record of the creation of the modern Greek state. It is the forefront of a tradition of the Greek nation, which was forged between the hammer of racing and the corner of time, a decisive element of the Greek idiosyncrasy, existing and present in time in the course of the Greek nation. It is a principle that has become established over time and certainly has nothing to do with either the religious neutrality of the Greek state or the adequacy of religion in the state. The neutrality of the state and the right of the axiety of Greek citizens are fully guaranteed by a grid of articles. I'm going to be a community. Many colleagues have referred to this. First and foremost, Article 13 of the Constitution fully guarantees the religious freedom of Greek citizens. But it seems the pretext - if you want - placement of SYRIZA executives and the following fact: They are seeking to change Article 3. Why not call for the change in Article 16(2) through the Constitution, which provides for an obligation of the State to form responsible citizens, including through the religious and national development of young people? But we said, Article 16 is an article that SYRIZA wants nothing to hear about. On the other hand, however, a number of other articles, such as Article 5, which ensures participation in public life, in common, in all citizens on the same terms and without any religious or other discrimination, are still - if you like - a confirmation that the state is in fact neutral. Article 2 of the Constitution also provides for the safeguarding of human dignity, without any religious or other discrimination. They are non-revisionable provisions of the country's Charter, which - if you like - disprove this account we have heard from SYRIZA these days, that there are discrimination and injustices in that country. Which country? Which country are we talking about? For a country where the rightfulness developed in the greenhouse of left ideological domination in recent decades makes any debate on discrimination, and in particular on religious discrimination too little convincing? In addition to all this, within the few revised provisions that we agreed with the previous House, there are two very important things, such as facilitating the vote of Greek homosexuals, in terms of terms and conditions, of course, but also establishing for the first time in our country the minimum guaranteed income, a proposal which ensures a decent living for the most vulnerable groups and thereby supports human dignity. I am proud that the party I serve worked hard to pass these two provisions into the new, revised constitution. They are provisions that provide solutions and answers to modern problems that concern both Greek and European society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, too. Mr. Neocles Cretan from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution is a top democratic process, as it is the descriptive framework of the foundations of the state, of those who make up and keep it up in time. The concept of constitutionality or the unconstitutionality of the laws of the joint legislator precisely demonstrates that any attempt to revise the Constitution must be made with substantial pitifulness. On the subject of today's theme, which the previous Members have analysed in detail, I will insist more on Article 3, which has dominated the speeches and the other speeches, and I shall mention some historical data. The different views that have been heard about the term "predominant religion" and the way in which it should be explicitly clarified are based on the view that religious neutrality and freedom must exist, a common attitude of the state towards the citizens with a different religion from that of the Eastern Orthodox Church. Although it has been repeatedly formulated by several colleagues of the Couple that the issue of religious freedom is clearly clarified in Article 13, where that provision incorporates it as an individual right, it is reverted by the lip colleagues of the Greater and Eleonian Repression who are insisting to give it irreversibility. It is certain that a foundation on which our genus fell firmly to devour the conqueror's bonds was faith. And the faith of the Greeks did not require any description and any protection framework from any state. When the unscrupulous King Velestinlis exclaimed to the "Hymnos Patritic" the "Hymnastic" "Whoever, therefore, is a good and Orthodox Christian with the chariots in the hand let him act as a deafness of his Genesis to save joy" or when in verse 108 in "Thyrios" he said: "High on the bakery pick Stavron", he apparently considered that faith does not need any protection, but regenerate internal foundations in man, he clarifies consciences and identifies man with space and time in the prospect for eternal eternity. Besides, the need for identity was as urgent as ever, as well as overcoming fear of rebellion. If we do not want to go back to history, I will give a modern example. The historian of the Left, Charilaos Florakis, said attributes: "I should have visited Mount Athos from a young man. It would have been better for me and for Greece." There are two questions here, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, why would it be better for Greece? Does faith affect history's evolution and especially political history? Sure, yeah. Secondly, does faith and Orthodoxy need protection, since it is alive and distorts, in the positive sense, of course, consciences even of its fierce ideological opponents? Definitely not. The maintenance or maintenance, again in the positive sense, of the term "predominant religion" as well as the preservation of the preamble to the constitution's biennial preamble and support, especially in a modern reality, which the search for identity within cultural liquidity is a matter of concern. Yes, we need an ID in the state. We don't want an indifferent religious state. We want the historical memory, which comes from and stems from collective memory, so from the people, to be expressed through the Constitution. And those who provoke religion, faith in Orthodoxy with retreat, by transferring unrelenting arguments of repentance, may refer to Apostle Paul’s meeting with the Athenians in Pineca. The key element that fuelled the interests of the Athenians was the message of hope against the domination of death. And this Paul created it with the Resurrection accountability. This hope and message managed to unite Hellenism with Christianity and thus to carry out the history of world history. The Greek virtue according to ecclesiastical writer Klemi Alexandreas is the demand for the truth. The truth sought by Greek philosophers and all the popular layers horizontally and vertically - which was fully expressed by the inscription "Recognized God" - was revealed in the face of Christ. Christianity experientially expressed the search for the Greek world, again denoting the final meaning of its existence and transforming its existence. He's unlocked! So he triumphed in history, so he withstand the Turkish yoke, so he will withstand any future threat. It is certain that the rhetoric of the necessity to change Article 3 to integrate into progression makes it clear that the procurers of this rhetoric are more flirting with zeroing, arguing that identity as a acquis is transformed through wrestling and that wrestling as a swimming pool changes identity. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that the intersection was once on the rock of Pineca and this change was emphatically confirmed at all the difficult times of our nation. The Constitution guarantees religious freedom and at the same time honors the collective memory of the people, expressly mentioning the Eastern Orthodox Church of Christ as a dominant religion. Whoever wants to follow us. The rest of you are free to have or not to have your own religions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u372	So do we. Previously I said we're closing, but Mrs. Cassimatis came, who was before Mr. Cretan, and we'll give her the floor for eight minutes. Mrs Cassimatis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the process of constitutional review, as many have said, is the most important institutional one and reflects political and social correlations, competitive programmes, incorporates experiences, expresses predictability, but also requires consensus and increased popular legitimacy. Not to mention extensively the Greek period, Solon, Klisthei or the "Corpus Juris Civilis" of Justinian, which is the foundation of the organization and functioning of modern Western states, the constitutional history of our country is linked to the course of the Greek nation already since the pre-revolutionary period and the "New Civilian Administration", in 1797, the nationalist witness of our people and all the Balkan peoples, King Velestini. The preamble to the current constitution, which is already in progress from the Constitution of Epidaurus, but also Article 3, are not entirely anachronistic remnants, as it sees a school of thought, a western account of the historical evolution of the nation and its institutions. Nor are they, of course, an anti-historic and conservative view, such as that of the New Democracy party - and the Right in general - on this issue. On the contrary, they are part of the particular historically shaped, Greek idiosyncrasies, our national and social traditions within the general movement of history. Otherwise, the Greek Revolution was first national liberatory and not socio-retrospective, as, for example, the French Revolution, although it had this dimension. But the evolution of the Greek nation - state is dominating - to this day. In various forms. Therefore, the issues of cultural idiosyncrasy and identity are modern and not obsolete, not of theological interest, but of politics from 1989 onwards in particular. It is the truth of our people in the face of the established powers of capital, and that is why they must be reflected in the Constitution, which fully protects the religious freedom of all those in Greece. In this sense and the oath, religious or political, should be given free choice of the oathed person, whether he is a state official, a MP, a President of the Republic or a ordinary citizen. As expressed in a leading version of the Constitutional Law of our country, as well as a protagonist in the great national, democratic and social struggles, socialist Alexander Svolos wrote in 1927 in the "Constitutional History of Greece", in view of the resolution of the Constitution of Abasilete or 2 of the Hellenic Republic: "The constitutional history of Greece cannot be complete, since it is not placed within the general political history of the country and is not found in the accurate portrayal of the social development, which is basically determined by the state." In other words, he defined the horizons of the Greek Constitution. From the "New Civil Administration" of the King, then, the Intergovernmental Constitutions, the Local Armies of the Struggles, the Revolutionary Constitutions, the so-called "Privat" of 1832, as well as the Constitution of 1844, as a result of the Movement of 3 September, the Constitution of 1864, as well as the review of 1911, which was the basis of the irreversible Venetian movement after the movement of Guades, the Constitution of 1927 of Abasem, 1952 after the Civil War, until the Constitution of 1975 and the Third of the Hellenic Republic, the history of our country, the struggles of our people, our people, national independence, popular sovereignty, democracy, social justice and progress pass through the provisions of the Constitution, our Constitutions, articles that have become symbolic, such as the famous 114. The Constitution of the Kypronamenos III Hellenic Republic, which seals it indelibly, has been formed with the revisions of 1986, 2001 and 2008. The latest review is more important for the article that has not been revised, the famous article 16 on public free education in higher education and which, in fact, has illustrated the dynamic and movemental participation and presence of the folklore as an actor subject to the constitutional review process. Since 2010, with the monumental subordination of the country, its institutional state independence and its guaranteed self-determination since 1975 has been critically affected. The country's dependence has been placed on the institutional structures, production relations and the functioning of the legal structure. Control is now being carried out in more modern and effective terms, establishing, on the one hand, the degradation of the independence of the country, on the other hand, the economic violence of the system in forms that are particularly intense. For several aspects of the memorandum policies relating to social and economic rights, such as pensions and subsistence, there have been decisions by the Council of Europe responsible for monitoring compliance with the European Social Charter and they have considered it to be infringing it. So, having the specific experience, which has been experienced by Greek society since 2010, SYRIZA in the proposal for revision, particularly in the articles that I will be referring to and which we are talking about today about about social rights, attempts to give a constitutional grid of protection to the vital cells of Greek society that were ruthlessly struck in the years of the crisis. On the other hand, the New Democracy, with specific options, to which I shall refer in greater detail, seems to be in the backwards of this liberal character that it wants to engage in. For example, I mention the amendment - an improvement in paragraph 2 of Article 5 that we propose to ban discrimination on grounds of sex and sexual orientation, which the New Democracy rejects. Obviously gender equality for the New Democracy is a right that should not be constitutionally guaranteed, and we are entitled to ask ourselves what century they live in. With Article 21(1), we, as SYRIZA, move towards the constitutionalisation of a universal social system, where the state guarantees through universal social services and income support a decent standard of living for all, unlike the corporatist model or, even worse, the remnant - liberal, according to the international typology of the welfare state, which New Democracy is proposing in its proposal. However, the existing Article 21(1), which does indeed need to be strengthened with what I have said and which we propose, welcomes the family as a foundation for the maintenance and promotion of the nation, because, according to the lessons of the crisis and of the shared experience, the family has played a decisive role in maintaining the dignity of the people who have suffered economic violence in the memorandum times, and it is a common place that the country is facing an acute demographic problem, which, manifestly, refers to the nation and its continuity. In Article 21(3), we are proposing that it be reviewed by a general reference which is now available for care, guarantee and obligation by the State for universal access to effective health services through the National Health System. Basically, we are attempting to institutionalise the public character of the ESS, a conquest of the 1980s, but not just that. The state of concern goes beyond the obligation, namely positive action as a constitutional obligation. This is a provision that implements the concept of solidarity in accordance with a modern legal concept - interpretation, even for reciprocity, conductivity of social rights, in general, and the right to health in particular. In Article 21, the addition we propose, as a new paragraph number 7, is essentially in the spirit and letter of the current constitution, specifying the provision of Article 106 in the natural monopolies mentioned, namely water, electricity and their distribution networks, and setting them under the public service and control regime. These are rights - public goods, for which we believe there should be a follow-up to their provision at affordable prices and high quality. In this context, I mention, for example, the 1906/2014 plenary session of the Council of State, which considered the privatization of the EEAS to be unconstitutional and canceled the transfer of the latest shares of the EEAS to the JAPD. With our proposal, the inalienable nature of these lasting resources for the life and well-being of the citizens is constitutionally guaranteed at a time when privatizations and, in particular, the pro-investing way of the New Democracy Government fits in with what modern political theory calls "symbolisation by expropriation". We do not want Greece to become a colony and we want to safeguard the natural, socially responsible resources. In Article 22, we are also obliged - apart from the fact that we want it - by the legislative practices of the governments of 2010-2014 to add the age criterion to the enjoyment of the right to equal pay for equal work as part of the principle of equal treatment, as you have legislated, both New Democracy and the area now called CINAL, the different age-related treatment at wage level, distinguishing, before and after the limit of twenty-five years, but also undermining too much the work of minors. The famous "substantial salary" is your neology, the New Democracy, is your offer to the new generation. Obviously, the New Democracy does not want this regulation, because it might want to bring it back to the future. In Article 22(2), we have proposed the constitutional safeguarding of basic principles of collective labour law, which, during the crisis, were severely affected, such as the principle of more favourable regulation, the ban on the overrun of minimum wages, laid down by collective agreements of employment, and the right to refer to arbitration. We did so not only because we had the experience of circumventing the above basic principles of collective labour law within the framework of the memorial line of internal devaluation accepted and fully implemented by the governments of 2010-2014, hitting the world of wage earner work, but also because we certainly appreciated that in the inaccessible case of the worker you came to things, New Democracy, that is, instantly, would manifest your anti-Fraud Revanism vis-à-vis the world of wage labour. And we wanted this, constitutionally, institutionally, to prevent it. Unfortunately, we have been fully verified, as already under development law 4365/2019, which you have recently voted on, the New Democracy, you have restored the labour monumental barbarism in its most far-reaching form, through a grid of exception clauses from the arrangements of collective agreements, making them extremely permeable and confirming to everyone, I believe, indisputably, that the arrangements of the Memorandum Programmes and of the time when the country was in direct and international financial control are the regularity that New Democracy is engaged in, promises it for the future in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, too. I will give the floor for intervention, not for denial, Mr Javarra, for two minutes to the special rapporteurs. Mr. Catrugale, would you like to?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, it may take two minutes myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u376	Mr. Javarra, you have the floor for two minutes and think about the world that's been outside this Chamber and are your friends from the past. They have to go home because they're back in front of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u377	Mr President, thank you very much. I want to deal with two issues. Firstly, I have to answer Mr Bored, who was kind enough to dedicate all his speech to my humility. Indeed, Mr Baroness, what you have said relates to my position today, but in a way that I honestly did not understand. I said today that SYRIZA should not make a wrong method, that is to say propose a revision of the Constitution, starting with its political values and ideas and going toward things, while Montesquieu said that the law is the necessary relationships that result from the nature of things. That is why we need to observe the evolution of events, as Mrs Kasimatis said earlier, which she referred to Spoolos, to talk about and to support social development and on it to establish constitutional changes. Today, then, you are doing the whole opposite. As far as the so-called post-democratic treaty is concerned, we have mentioned not only myself, but also colleagues from SYRIZA, in this definite work by Professor Colin Crowds. But, in the face of this, I said yesterday in my speech that we cannot talk about corruption and overcoming representative institutions or parliamentaryism. Parliamentarianism has the point and the task of creating the conditions for honest compromises between parties that believe in different values, come from different ideological origins and, above all, represent different interests. How do we do it? The Communist Party is clear. It treats the Constitution as a work and creation of the bourgeoisie, and, of course, it is important that it declares its opposition here. But you are something different. You also want to take part in the ideological example represented by the JRC in this Chamber, as well as in the Social Democratic or Central Left. Well, working on two ideological gentlemen can't be done. You will reach the point of irrationality, such as what has been heard today. I conclude with my last sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, your difficulty in understanding our objection to a revision of Article 3 lies in the fact that you are making a method error here as well. You are complicating two terms that are distinct, the term "Church" and the term "religion". If you take a look at the title of Article 3, it speaks of State and Church relations. These two institutions are homogeneous, they are institutions of political society, they have the organization, one of the people, and the other, the Church, the believers of Christ’s religion, the Orthodox East. These two institutions cannot and cannot stand up to this particular addition that you want to put in paragraph 1, by saying and demanding that the state demonstrate neutrality of religion, because the state of neoliberal, modern, what is organizing the Constitution we are talking about now, of 1975 is neutral to religious phenomena, because religious phenomena are not phenomena of civil society, such as all other organisations that group citizens, who believe in different values and, for religion, it is this relationship with each citizen, his care for the moment and for the purpose. This case is private and in the face of private affairs the state is by definition neutral, because all this current consumption of a parliamentary speech, which in no way has benefited us from understanding that you are indeed opposed to Christian religion. Because it is a dominant religion for religious, historical, symbolic and national reasons and you have your own political religion. Because that is the great contradiction: you belong to a political religion, while the believers who believe in Christ as a Savior belong to a religion that develops in society. So civil society and civil society can never conflict, except in the mind of some SYRIZA MPs. How do we do it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u378	I imagine, Mr. Catrugale, you'll want the floor. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u379	Mr President, I will try to be within the two-minute period. Mr President, in the state of modernity, the democratically organized state and the Church are not homogeneous institutions. Precisely because, in the state of modernity, the state institutions have only taken advantage of popular sovereignty, while, obviously, religions and churches have a transcendental, metaphysical reference system. For this reason, it is not a conflict of modernity that the New Democracy now brings back is a conflict that belongs to another century. If I was surprised - I might not understand and I will see in the Minutes - it is the rapporteur's intention to give us anti-religious feelings, which we clearly do not have. From the outset I said that the Greek left was never anti-Christian. Neither the Church as a whole against the Left. He participated in the NAM most of the folk clergy. For reasons of detail I mentioned in my suggestion, the issue here is not what our attitude to Christian religion is, but the introduction of the necessary new internal reform, which other states have already carried out in the 19th century, with the introduction of distinct roles of State and Church, which, after all, also responds to the Gospel doctrine "the Caesar's Caesari, the things of God." The conflict that had to take place in this Chamber should not be about issues solved in modernity and democracy, but about current problems, such as the neoliberal attack on social rights and conquests, and this attempt to stay alive and expand. Unfortunately, however, the majority seem to have strong anti-neutral elements within it, not only in its attitude with Article 3, but also in its position towards more general acceptance of rights and freedoms, as is the case in the case of Article 5(2), on the prohibition of discrimination based on sex and sexual orientation. We want to hope that, until the vote on critical issues relating to the lives of the citizens, as today's subject of the debate, all the wings of the Chamber will have the opportunity to reassign themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u380	Mr. Kamines has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u381	Can the voice of soundness also speak? Can the voice of reason also speak, Mr President? Because I don't want to abuse your time, I'd like to say two things. I was impressed by the New Democracy’s tendency to reject everything, all that had to do directly or indirectly with the relations of the Church - State. I believe that it is far behind and in the minds, from the point of view of the Prime Minister and too many of its members. On the other hand, I hear here Mr. Katrugalos talking about modernity and all of this and making us a categorical and functional, as we speak of Religious, when they had the opportunity to take the big steps, so, the separation of State and Church and what we have finally seen was a complete intimacy and the dismissal of Mr. Friends, which we heard today how exactly he explained it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u382	Thank you. The debate on the revised provisions of the Constitution is adjourned, which corresponds to the first and second thematic section of the Constitutional Review Committee, namely: Relations between Church and State, Religious Freedom, Oath and Individual and Social Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-19-S1-commons.u383	With the consent of the House at 22.03p. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 20 November 2019 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's proceedings, on the continuation of the debate on the revised provisions of the Constitution, in accordance with articles 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure (3rd, 4th and 8th thematic section of the Commission: Articles 37 par. 2, 38 pp. 1 and 2, 68pp. 2, 84 pp. 2, 28 pp. 2, 44pp. 2, 73 and 32 paras. 4 and 5), in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
