ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS One of the topical and urgent questions contained in today's newsletter will not be discussed because of lack of competence. It is the first question, No. 47/30-9-2019, in the first cycle of the Confederal Party of the Radical Left Coalition, Georgiou Tsipras, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'NN Hellas Co-operation Agreement solutions' and institutions responses'. Responsibility for answering is the Ministry of Finance. I assume Mr. George Tsipras will redeposit it. The first three topical questions will be answered by Mr Metarakis. Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Apostolos, the topical questions are almost identical. So, if you have no objection, we suggest that you discuss them together, both Members should develop in the time you have your question and in the Minister's answer to both questions. So, Mr Katsotis, you're going third while you're second in a row to facilitate the process. The timely question, therefore, which we will begin with is the second question under number 48/30-9-2019 of the first cycle of the Hercules MEP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Increase the insecurity of workers in public work programmes'. The relevant question is the first under number 429/28-8-2019 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Expand employment through the programmes of a mutual nature to protect the forest ecosystems of the country". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in 2018 the Ministry of Labour prepared two public works programmes for the first and second cycles. The first cycle stuff started about a year ago. As you know, the European Social Fund has accepted the Greek Government's proposal, since 2011, for the implementation of socially beneficial projects, with two main axes and conditions. First of all, reconnection with the work of the long-term unemployed, the people who have lost their jobs or who have not worked for a long time. The second axis is the implementation of small-scale projects, whether they relate to services or to specific projects. Of course, both in the municipalities and in the regions and in the other services of the wider public sector and in the public sector employed by the unemployed who are involved in public work programmes in practice will cover the huge gaps that exist in services. The question is whether, following the extension given by the previous government for four months and in view of the start of the second cycle, which will certainly have a large gap of four to five months from the end of the programmes - which is happening on these days 10 October - you intend to fill this large gap either by extending the programme or otherwise. I should like to point out that the unemployed in the Social Fund have, firstly, a difficulty since they are made redundant to join the Unemployment Fund, because of the over-measures - I would say - conditions. The second point, which concerns the substance of the programme and you must take into account, is that small-scale projects have not been completed in many cases and the condition laid down by the European Social Fund (ESF) to approve these programmes is not covered if workers are made redundant and this programme does not end, this public work project. We would like your thoughts on how to prolong or otherwise, you will incorporate the workers in the second cycle of the public works programme. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Apostolos, with his slight relatives, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I agree with the general approach adopted by my previous colleague on public-private programmes. However, I will specify my question in the programme concerning the participation of specific unemployed in the forest fire prevention process. We, when we received governance, particularly in the woods, found a very big problem and it was that of the absence of even elementary prevention in the anti-nuclear protection of forests. That is why we have taken a step forward, and we have promoted the employment of certain unemployed, of course, through a programme which would be supervised by the forestry authorities and a programme financed by the OAED budget. In August 2018, therefore, we hired in this process, in this activity, five thousand sixty-six unemployed. In other words, we have substantially transformed unemployment into work. That is very important and you must take this seriously, Minister. What performance did they have? It was such that their performance and participation, which at least the visitors of the mountainous countryside saw throughout Greece, everywhere, the workers concerned working and cleaning grass and branches and, of course, other forest work, very important in the prevention part. That is why we have just finished the contract before the end of the contract. We have extended it for eight months. So now we are a month before the end and the second period, where the workers cover prevention needs, not only by making cleansing, but also by taking part in other procedures. You should take this seriously. This programme has also included the acquisition of skills on specific jobs, of course with specific seminars to be carried out on matters relating to the subject of their employment. And the third is that the forestry services are under an obligation, at the end of the programme in general, to give a certificate not only of their working time but of their ability to do so, that is to say, to serve what we call the trade of the forester. Above all, what I would like to ask you is whether you have decided to extend the programme so that the obligations that I have told you and the needs that exist for this procedure can be served, and of course, as far as the answer you will give is concerned, because it is an activity that I would say is about the Ministry of the Environment rather than the Ministry of Labour, I believe there must be a consultation between you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u5	Before I give the floor to Mr Metarakis, I put a letter to the minutes of the House of Commons from the Secretary of State with two legs: one refers to the questions being discussed today and the other refers to the question that I said that because of lack of competence will not be answered. It is presented for the Minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the programmes of social benefits have indeed been created by co-financing from European resources, as Mr Kegeroglu reminded us for many years now, with the aim of facing problems of reconnecting long-term unemployed people with the labour market in order to obtain specific skills that will help the beneficiaries to reintegrate into the labour market. Because, as you know, public benefit from planning is not a permanent solution for people with unemployment problems. The aim, however, is to temporarily halt the phenomenon, which in recent years has been particularly high because of the economic crisis. These programs, as you know, are designed in such a way that they do not cover standing and constant needs. They come to cover specific projects carried out by municipalities or ministries to strengthen the provision of services to citizens. I started by saying that these programmes are co-funded by the European Union. But you know - and I would also like to inform the National Representation - that, if these programmes are extended, cofinancing is interrupted. These programmes are now covered exclusively by the national budget. These programmes are therefore called for in specific terms and rules and for a specific duration. As you know, the previous government had done Program I for identification centres. When the program was completed, it was interrupted. And the benefit came out of the community job program. So you know that these programmes are designed to be completed. The government is preparing to announce a new programme of thirty-five thousand beneficiaries with a view to tackling long-term unemployment. Let me submit a letter from the Minister of Labour, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, to the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece dated 19 September, which gives the main guidelines of the new programme. [[At this point, the Secretary of State for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. South Mitarakis, presents for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If you will allow me to make a political comment, ladies and gentlemen. For many years now, unfortunately, these programmes have been used as a trade of hope to the benefit of those who have been starting a programme of specific duration and are then facing them for too many years in the courts and are trying to find the way out of these programmes to become permanent in jobs. You know, however, that the Constitution in Article 103 has specific provision for the way in which the public operates certain work programmes. These programmes are therefore being completed at the end of the day. In order to address the problems that really exist, we are immediately moving towards the creation of thirty-five thousand jobs in the public employment programmes. There is no question of a four-month gap, as raised by Mr Kegeroglu, for the very simple reason that these programmes, as I said at the outset, are not designed to meet fixed and lasting needs. I cannot, however, refer to two specific sub-programmes, such as the programme to deal with immigration. Because of the upheaval we are currently facing in structures, there is a question of whether there can be a gap between the programmes, this four-month period that has been said before. It is something that the Ministry of Labour is considering and will take decisions quite soon. We also realise that the issue of forest protection also has one particular feature. Of course, we're currently entering the non-military period. We have asked the municipalities and regions for their comments on the needs that exist. We will also come back to this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u8	Before I give the floor to my colleagues, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question report to the House on Friday, 4 October 2019. I should like to inform you that tomorrow, the Prime Minister's Hour is starting and the Prime Minister will answer a timely question from the President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis. 'COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE (Articles 129(2) and 3, 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 51/3/1-10-2019 by the President of the MEDA Group 25 Mr. Yiannis Varoufakis to the Prime Minister on the subject: 'The abolition of a Moria and internal border camp'. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 53/1-10-2019 by MP Corinth of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Treaty of asylum seekers to the Corinth camp". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Evangelia Ligoulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "It is not possible to supply necessary medicines for oncology and haematological patients at the University General Hospital of Larissa". 3. The question by number 58-1-10-2019, by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, on "The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on tsipouro - tsikoudia". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 54/1-10-2019 by MP Fthiotidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Fulfilment of empty organic positions by EL.AS." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 49/30-9-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The necessary measures for the integration of public self-propelled skates into Greek cities". 3. The Question No 59/1-10-2019 by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Dues and problems at the General Hospital of Xanthi". 4. The Question No 45/25-9-2019 by the Deputy of State of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Creation of supervised spaces". 5. The Question No 60/1-10-2019 by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Serious deficiencies of earthquake shielding in the schools of the country". 6. The question by number 63/1-10-2019 of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The realignment of the objective values leads to a great increase in the tax burden for the majority of the owners of the Prefecture of Elias and the Greek region". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Argolidas Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Great concern and concern about the spread of the Western Nile virus". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I am surprised to hear the Minister make a complaint concerning the past, as he said, trade in hope, about the employment of workers in public work programmes. I do not know whether this is a complaint to the Minister, Mr Brutsi, who has run three socially beneficial projects during his term of office, or whether it is for the government which has made an extension of four months in a programme with specific reasons. And I will refer to what I have asked for in order to meet the conditions on the basis of which the ESF has approved these programmes. It is, of course, reconnection, as we have said, with the work of people who have been cut off for a long time. It is the acquisition of skills, but also the implementation of specific small-scale public-private actions and projects related to the municipality, region or body in which they are employed. If, for whatever reason, the objective of the programme is not achieved, then it is very reasonable not to cover this condition laid down by the ESF, so provision should be made for such an extension. This is the case in most cases. Where they have not been used, paradoxically against you, to fill out service gaps, you should see that the project has not been completed. For example, the digitisation of an old file, which is done successfully by workers in public work for specific purposes in this programme, to make the digitisation of a particular record of a service, a region, if it is in the middle, is not considered the programme complete. So it can't end, Minister, the program. The programmes must be extended until at least the programmes for which they have been created and planned are completed. Otherwise, if you think that workers are for a specific time rather than a specific project in order to meet needs in this time, then you are the one who supports with your position that they cover needs and gaps and tomorrow will cover these gaps. You understand the wrong logic, which you rejected. Let me say that, of course, the firefighting programmes and for the centres of migrants have not been completed. And there should be an extension. The same must be done for all the programmes, for the rest of the workers. Our proposal and our request is to extend, at least by the end of the year, to enable them to complete and acquire the skills in the middle, but above all to complete the programmes and projects and small-scale actions for which they have been created.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u10	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u11	I shall conclude with a phrase. As far as the second phase is concerned, you should, in my view, link it. If you tell me that the second phase will be completed, then the second phase should have the right to work for the same people to move forward. Both cannot be valid, the programmes must be different and the projects must be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u12	Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u13	We are therefore waiting for your answers to all of the thirty thousand workers and not just the seven thousand, which is well thought out, as it turns out, to extend their programmes and their work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u14	Mr Apostle, you have the floor and you will be tolerant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have finally sold hope for thirty days now when the leaks at least reached the ears of these workers were that you have decided to extend. Even yesterday's publications had the FEK you were preparing for the four-month extension. And today you come here and say: we will communicate with the municipalities, with the local communities. I want you to answer me: have you made any consultation with the Ministry of the Environment? Because this issue primarily concerns forestry services from the Ministry of the Environment. And when we talk about an amendment, as to what you said at the beginning that we would have a problem, I will tell you that we have no problem, because we had already investigated this issue and made the previous extension. In addition, I repeat, you are stunning an attempt to upgrade prevention when the Forest Service, by decision of our own, is now returning to the firefighting. It's not just us. There is the Goldamer conclusion, there are scientists, there is a world that has now realized that prevention must be the most important tool in forest fires. And all this work that has been done, you come and you're blowing it up. How, then, will the Forest Service implement these anti-nuclear projects that it is obliged to have for the next anti-nuclear period if the process of training, training, attestations, seminars, all that is necessary to enable these people to serve the needs we will have in the next anti-nuclear period is not completed? Minister, I tell you, it is a great responsibility you take if you do not prolong. And I insist in eight months, because if you go to four months, early April, when the next fire season begins, will you take such a burden, those people we need to get rid of them? This is a very serious matter and, of course, beyond your responsibilities in such a case, I am telling you another one and I am closing down. You are due, Minister, to support the environmental sword, which your Prime Minister has recently "were" at the UN climate summit, in general, on the great issue of forest protection. So, make sure that you do not show up, extend this programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, before I give you the floor, I was asked by Mr Kegeroglu, because as an old parliamentarian he knows that he could not take the floor again, and I would remind you that for these workers in these programmes, they have already begun and come to court decisions which are in favour of the workers and ask you to take this into account in your reply. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Kegeroglu for the last point, which I understand. Mr Kegeroglu, when I said that these programmes have been historically used as a trade of hope, I am not talking about the right logic of creating these programmes. There are right funds from the European Union, rightly there are programmes for reintegration of long-term unemployed, for creating skills and other social objectives that are achieved by this programme. They have only historically been used and enclaved new children or long-term unemployed for five years, decades and more in court for projects that were not created as an alternative to the recruitment of permanent officials, where required. I shall refer to the Forest Service and the Apostle and SYRIZA's responsibilities in this area. The aim of these programmes is not to create permanent jobs in the public. In order to create permanent jobs, there are provisions through ASPs, proper competitions, which must be respected. And I think that this criticism, Mr Kegeroglu, was more general and was not about the design of specific programmes which, as I said, were right and which is why the current government is preparing to proclaim the programme of thirty-five thousand jobs. I would remind you that the SYRIZA's first public works programme has ended and workers have left, extensions have been made to these programmes which have coincided with the election period. You realise that sometimes there may also be political motives behind the extensions given a few months ago. On the subject of implementing actions, I have stressed that these programmes are not designed to meet the fixed and constant needs of the ATTs. The persons, the beneficiaries of these programmes are invited to cover secondary projects rather than fixed and permanent needs of the local government or ministries involved in the programme. You raise a very interesting point, that there are municipalities who have not been able to make good use of the social work programme and to complete the actions that have been taken by staff through the programme of social benefits. You realise that this is an issue that the municipalities themselves must see because they failed to achieve in the time provided for in the programme to complete the actions. The programmes may have been wrongly planned, perhaps the workers who could not be implemented within eight months have been obliged to do so. But you realise that the OAED cannot examine or evaluate in a few days all the existing programmes and whether they have completed their actions or not. I stress, however, that, if they have not completed their actions, responsibility is not borne by the designer of the programme, which is the Ministry of Labour and the OAED. On the subject of the forestry programme, first of all, it is obvious that the previous government's failure to find permanent solutions to a problem that, as you say, is permanent. Badly created community labour program, if you ask me, if the needs are lasting. If the needs were lasting, the relevant Ministry had to meet these needs by recruiting permanent staff. In fact, five thousand workers were included - benefiting from this programme, without any training, without chairs sitting in the office many times, without any clothes, boots and anything else it needed. And we were found because of the total lack of planning to have incidents, like one that I will describe to you. On my island, Chios, the workers in this project participated in deforestation and cleaning, so as to reduce the risk of fire. They left them on the ground, there was no design of trucks to take, because there was no provision in the budget for trucks, and in August we were found to have wood cut as a fuel for fire, increasing the risk of forest fire. It was a programme that was designed with care, without taking into account the permanent needs. There must therefore be a more substantial approach to issues relating to forest protection. I stressed in my prototype - and I repeat - that I understand that, especially on this issue, as well as on the issues of the beneficiaries participating in asylum programmes in the identification centres, due to the exacerbation of immigration, there is one issue that we must address immediately. The general picture is that these work programmes are well available, they will continue to exist. A new programme, which will have a certain number of beneficiaries, will have specific accession criteria and will have a specific duration, because that is the point of the programmes. The point is not to encroach on a new generation of people who will try through the judiciary to pay workers for too many years to find a way to simulate themselves. These programmes were not designed as a replacement for the need for the public to create permanent jobs to meet fixed and constant needs. And the right planning is this, ladies and gentlemen, where the public has permanent needs, where the public has the financial capacity to finance these needs, it must call for permanent jobs. These programmes come with co-financing from the European Union, which does not apply in the event of an extension. They shall go against the national budget when an extension is granted. These programs are coming to help reintegration, not to hire people to the public. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, let me speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Apostle, not today, because you saw that we had to do it at 10:30 - that we wouldn't finish at 10:30 - to continue...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, give me a minute, because the Secretary-General has not understood that they are getting a degree - a certificate of right-wing forester. So tomorrow - tomorrow, when the Forest Service publishes work on prevention, they are entitled to participate. There's no one else if he doesn't have that skill. So we do not say that they will meet fixed and lasting needs. Needs are lasting, they'll only meet because they have the ability.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u21	Let's have it predicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u22	We move forward with the first under number 62/1-10-2019, a topical question by MP B3', South Athens Sector of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “For the workers in business “S/M Karypidis” (formerly “S/M Arvanitides”). Mr. Metarakis will answer. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know that since 2016 the workers in the Karypidis business - supermarket - have been fighting for their rights. Their invasion by all system rings has no precedent. Recently they were judicially justified. They are now ahead of the possibility of having to engage in new, long-term judicial struggles. We note that the Athens Poly Members of the Court of First Instance declared the company "Afis Karapidis Anonymous Commercial and Export Company" bankrupt. On the basis of that decision, a trader was appointed and that decision was published on 2 April 2019. The union started sending complaints of employment contracts in July 2019, with a date of dismissal not on the current date, but on the decision on bankruptcy, i.e. 2 April. This process began in July with missions to employees of the province's stores and continues until today with the workers of the Thessaloniki stores. This action, Minister of the Court of Justice, calls on the workers to sign redundancies even six months ago, has serious consequences for workers' rights, for example for receiving unemployment benefits. The worker must lodge an application for up to 40 days from the termination of his work. Otherwise, he's just losing the allowance. A consequence. Or he goes into the process to prove why he is tabling the request for unemployment benefit late. Let us remember that these workers have been very burdensome financially and that even today they have been claiming their jobs since 2016. Furthermore, Minister, this is how workers lose rights in the way they receive the company's dues, as the conditions of satisfaction are changed before and after bankruptcy. The law provides that bankruptcy is not a reason to resolve the contract of employment, that even after bankruptcy has been declared, the employee retains all his employment rights, such as, for example, his claims for holidays, leave benefits and so on. The demands of workers who were born before bankruptcy are, according to the legal framework, bankruptcies and, in fact, privileged, they are met by the law. The trade union, despite being responsible for delaying redundancies for six months, insists on neglecting the law and calls on the workers to move judicially. We ask you what action you will take as a government to stop, if you like, this illegal act of the judiciary and to vindicate the workers in the Karyapidis business.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, the Karyapidis case has multiplely dealt with Greek justice and the Ministry of Labour. And, as you know, the Labour Relations Inspectorate has filed press reports against the company and the dispute will be discussed at the Thessaloniki Chamber of Appeal in December 2019. There is the decision of the Monomele of Thessaloniki of March 2019 on the employment rights of the employees of the company, and it has also been granted exceptional financial assistance to the engaged employees of the company Karupidis. It is a more general issue, which, as a ministry, we are examining and announcing concrete steps towards dealing with cases where workers are incapable of being caught, unpaid for the long term in businesses that are facing serious survival problems or are in the bankruptcy process. As you know, there are articles in the development bill that come to support the work in these enterprises. You are asking specific questions, which are very correct. The first question is about the type of dismissal the trader chose to notify. First of all, you are right to say that it is not fair to resolve a work relationship in the event of bankruptcy. It is an option for the court to perform if this is deemed to be in favour of bankruptcy. As far as time is concerned, it is an object that will be solved by justice. There is case law, there are court judgments. In order for redundancies to be valid, redundancy must be of a proper type and compensation must be paid. On the issue of unemployment benefit, I contacted the OAED and the OAED's view is that they have the deadline from the date of notification of the dismissal decision. As a result, workers in the bankruptcy firm are not prevented from joining the unemployment benefit. You also said that there is this possibility of justification. The OAED's view is that the time of notification is sufficient to demonstrate that the request for unemployment benefit is within the legal deadline. I would also like to say to you that there is a request from the association which will immediately be implemented in order to have a trialogue meeting in order to resolve the problems that your question rightly raises that there are currently in the bankruptcy company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u26	Here, Mr Colleague, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, we did not expect any other response than the one you have given. It's identical to the answers before, with the previous government, that the Labour Inspectorates are doing this, we sued, we waited for the courts. That is the last answer, of course the government has so far. It is well-known that there are bankrupt enterprises and multipliers. The legislative framework governing the whole operation of the system above all guarantees the employer rather than the workers. And the working years are now fighting in such businesses, which is the result of this kind of organization of the economy, to be justified. However, they are faced with all these regulations governing bankruptcy law. You say about the time of unemployment, that the OAED can justify that it will be from the date of notification of the dismissal and not from the date on which it was made. But that does not solve the problem. The workers are in a very bad situation today. If you want, they don't enter the unemployment fund. So many months they've been in unemployment and without income. You said the new employment bill solves these issues. The new Labour Bill is well known to be a working rights scroller - so the working class described it - and that is why we had yesterday the strike, which, in spite of what you say, was not successful, has affected you very much, as a government, so that the Prime Minister himself can make unacceptable statements about the movement of workers yesterday throughout Greece. It is known that the labour bill abolishes sectoral collective agreements. It is known that the exceptions to sectoral collective agreements are many and such companies, which are even poorer, you will exclude them from the application of sectoral collective agreements, because they will be economically weak and the Minister will be the principal of this history, decide which company will be excluded, which association will be representative and all we have shown over this period. We believe that the labour movement will continue to fight to overthrow this draft law, so that it can guarantee its rights and the rights of these workers in those businesses that you are currently implementing, if you want, de facto, legislate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u28	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my protology, I have developed multiple actions taken by the Ministry of Labour to support workers in the bankruptcy company. I have spoken about the immediate tripartite meeting that will take place, so that we can resolve in a friendly way the problems that have arisen. I told you that the OAED accepts the date of notification as the starting point for the right to apply for unemployment benefit. I also told you that the Ministry of Labour has as much recourse to justice against the company and we expect the trial in December. Of course, in a favoured state judicial authority, the courts are there to base the rights of workers. The government believes, on the one hand, in modernising the legislative framework governing the employment relationship to support full-time jobs. On the other hand, we have made it clear at the very beginning that we will have zero tolerance towards employers who do not comply with labour legislation. Therefore, since the first day of the government's taking responsibility for the government's governance, the audits of the Labour Inspectorate and EKKA throughout the country have been intensified to deal with problems of infraction. On the question of strike, the issue of trade union law, Mr Colleague, we will be given the opportunity in discussing the bill to get into the details of this law. The aim of the Ministry of Labour is to support the trade union movement, the participation of workers in the trade union movement, which is the strength of the labour movement. Trade unions and unions with increased participation are a force for the worker. We also want transparency in the working of the trade unions. You already know that both the PCA and other organisations have denounced the existence of organisations - a seal, which affect the proper functioning of the tertiary organisations. So I imagine that you too will have a positive attitude to clarify what the trade unions actually express the workers, who of course have the complete freedom in a democratic state to trade. At the same time, we are strengthening social dialogue in every way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u30	We move to the second with number 271/8-8-2019 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement of Change Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Fighting the tuta absoluta and compensation for producers'. Mr Kostantinos Skrekas will answer Mr. Kostantis Skrekas' question. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have tabled this question in writing on a major problem created in the greenhouse-growing sector for the production of tomatoes. It is the insult that has been received by the tuta absoluta, which, apart from the major disasters, has also caused disappointment to producers who do not proceed with tomato production. They are no longer cultivating tomato and the damage is great, but also because they have not been covered by any programme. The cost of treatment is huge and, of course, nobody guarantees them that all that they will spend on cultivation will find a response. So let us say that the result is to reduce Greek production vertically, to increase imports and, indeed, to high prices. From the late response given to us by the Ministry, there seems to be a scientific way of dealing with the problem. Phytosanitary protection measures are proposed by the Ministry's services, but by a difference. It is a huge cost of this plant protection, so production in practice is inconsistent. The second element is that the 'ELGO-PIMITRA', which dealt with the problem, finds it absolutely clear. Of course, the services of the ELGA have seen it, as well as the Ministry of Rural Development. He proposed, therefore, that ELGO - PIMITRA, as he says in the reply, an innovative programme for integrated tomato cultivation - greenhouse-growing - which the Ministry of Rural Development has not accepted until now to implement. So the question is, while there is a scientific method of fighting, and there is the proposal for a specific programme, why is there not a way to fund this programme, only generally and vaguely referred to future programmes? So, when the tomato is essentially secured as an import product, then will you then come back and say that we have now received the authorisations? We also know very well from the past that there is a way of modifying the programmes and financing these actions. I would like, therefore, clearly to place the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on how it intends to deal with the problem. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u32	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, my colleague, the presence of the insect tuta absoluta was first found in the country in 2009 and specifically in the Platanos area of Chania Prefecture of Crete. In the short term, the presence of the insect was recorded almost throughout the country, while during the first years of its presence it caused significant damage to crops and outdoors and tomato, as is usually the case with the invasion of a new type of insect in an area, as the entry of a new vegetarian enemy cannot be dealt with and controlled with the usual agricultural practices of growers. Subsequently, the effects were limited through the acquisition and appropriate know-how and information of producers and agriculture as well as through the action of indigenous natural enemies of the insect. The insect tuta absoluta is now considered established in Greece. Apart from tomatoes, unfortunately it can also insult crops - such as eggplant, peppers, potatoes, tobacco - but also various ingenious plants. What has been done by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food? Firstly, chemical preparations have been approved to deal with tuta absoluta since 2009. The Directorate responsible for Plant Production reacted immediately at that time, asking the plant protection products companies to submit applications for derogations and then to grant definitive authorisations. At the beginning of 2010, the first 11 derogating authorisations were granted for seven different active substances. By way of derogation, a further two-fold licence was granted in June and December 2010. Subsequently, the procedures were completed and final approvals were granted to combat the insect, the number of which is constantly increasing. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] To deal with his enemy, the tuta, as it used to be said, in the cultivation of tomato, have been approved, according to our Ministry's database, a total of thirty-five preparations of plant protection products. There are also listed in the National List of Plant Protection of Macro-organisms that can be used in organic farming. That list should note that it is on the website of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. What should producers do? They must implement an integrated management programme, as recommended by the Benagic Institute, an integrated treatment of enemies and crops, in order to achieve effective and sustainable management of plant protection problems. The measures proposed for integrated treatment of tuta include first, growing preventive measures, second, biological treatment, third, chemical treatment and fourthly monitoring of insect populations and applying alternative methods, taking into account the management necessary to prevent the development of resistance to herbicides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u34	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I have referred to the problem with the disasters caused by the tuta. Of course, I have also referred to the possibilities available to address the problem as set out by the services of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. What does the Ministry of Rural Development say? There is room for plant protection, but the cost is too great. Secondly, the programme of sexual confusion, or 'COMUZO', can be implemented in other cases and is funded as an alternative environmental programme by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. These two are the services. Maybe one and the other. There seems to be confusion, but in political power. It does not adopt the sexual confusion programme and says 'we do not now have the possibility of amending' etc. But the damage is now being done, now the production is being destroyed, now Greek growers are being cut off from a traditional product, which was a matter of Greek production. What I am asking, then, is for you to review your position on the financing of the innovative programme, as proposed by the ELGO, for the management of the problem. And, of course, within that, as the services say, there may also be the sexual confusion program. The second thing I'm asking is to consider the possibility of indemnifying people. You only said - and you were right - that afterward the Ministry came and approved plant protection medications and methods of plant protection. Retrospect! What does that mean? That the Ministry itself has huge responsibilities that prevented producers from using plant protection to address the problem. So the responsibility of the Ministry, regardless of who was Minister, regardless of which party he was ruling, will not be transferred to the producers. You fully accept the responsibility of the Ministry. You said he came back and approved plant protection. So you will compensate the producers. You'll put the process ahead. Do not say that the ELGA regulation does not provide for this. They have come to Parliament at times arrangements to deal with specific problems. They have come and should in this way address this problem. Therefore, Minister, your response to the actions is not satisfactory. You raised your hands up. While the answer from the side of the Services, "ELGO - DIMITRA", ELGA and other services is fully documented, the Ministry says "children, costs to producers, children, the risk to producers".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Kegeroglu, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u37	What are you going to do? Will you discuss the winds and water there in the Ministry of Rural Development and will you not deal with your main subject, which is how you will support Greek producers to support Greek agricultural production? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, I would like to say to you that the intention and purpose of the Government and the Ministry of Rural Development is precisely that: to support the income of the Greek farmer. And, of course, not only this, but also to attract young farmers and, of course, to support Greece's primary sector, so that it becomes competitive in the coming years. And that is what we will do through actions and through the design of the new common agricultural policy for 2021-2027, which we are discussing at this time. Like you said very well, but as I mentioned earlier, a state and a ministry could never approve a medicine for an enemy of a crop that has not yet appeared in Greece. So in fact - and as I said to you - as soon as the problem arose immediately and exceptionally then, in 2009, the Ministry of Rural Development had proceeded with the approval of medicines to combat the specific enemy of tomato cultivation. On the other hand, as regards the inclusion of tomato in the eligible crops of Action 10.1.8 entitled 'Application of the method of sexual confusion of microplanes', measure 10, as is commonly called 'COMFUZE', I must point out that the inclusion of a new action in measure 10, presupposes, firstly, the budget required and requires a preparatory work on the planning of the action and the calculation of the amount of aid. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the European Commission and the relevant institutional framework, an amendment to the programme per year can indeed be made. But when can this be done? The amendment of the programme for the current year, for 2019, has begun, as can the former Minister for Rural Development, Mr Apostolos, who is in the Chamber today, from the previous government in April 2019. So, unfortunately, the amendment and the proposed regulations of the amendment have already been tabled by the previous government, by the previous political leadership and the current leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development cannot go any further than that, in particular as regards the integration into the hub of the fight against this enemy, in greenhouses - and I repeat - and not openly, because it already exists. The amendment, therefore, has already been approved by the Programme Monitoring Committee and is in informal consultation with the European Commission. Unfortunately, the previous government has already specified what is to come into 2019. Of course, for 2020 as a new political leadership and a new government we have the opportunity to move forward with a new amendment. This is what we intend to do, so that we can give another weapon to Greek growers to fight this enemy, which, as you said quite rightly, creates a problem with cultivation, eventually creates a problem with the production and income of farmers and, on the other hand, creates a problem with the self-sufficiency of the Greek market from domestic tomatoes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u40	We are now moving on to the third - and last - with number 61/1-10-2019, an issue for the first cycle of the MEP Evia from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Marinos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The Greek American agreement on military bases puts our country and our people at great risk". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece, with its current intervention in the Parliament, denounces the visit of the "Kear of War", the US Secretary of State, Mr Pompeso, to Athens and the New Democracy Government, which continues the strategic dialogue with the United States initiated by the SYRIZA Government, preparing for the conversion of the Greek-American agreement on bases into multi-annual, including new bases created by the SYRIZA Government, such as the Drone bases in Larissa, the helicopter base in Stefanovicio and the base for concentration of US forces in the port of Alexandroupolis. The so-called 'Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement' is very dangerous. It further involves our country in imperialist competitions and wars, puts our people at great risk and undermines sovereign rights. The government claims about national interest aim to hide that Greece's policy of involvement in imperialist planning, serves the interests and the upgrading of the position of big capital and turns against our people. With his intervention today, the Communist Party of Greece transfers to Parliament the strong voice of the anti-war, the working people's movement, which, in its struggle, requires that the Greek-American agreement on military bases be immediately condemned, that all the bases of death be closed and that our country's participation in imperialistic missions should be stopped abroad. So in our question, we ask the Minister how the Government of New Democracy is placed in these really crucial problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u42	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u43	Mr Colleague, I would first like to take down a misunderstanding. What is going on with the United States of America at the moment is not another basic agreement. Mutual defence cooperation between the two countries, the agreement which is to be signed, as a result of the wider relationship between strategic cooperation between Greece and the United States, is not just an agreement on the regime governing the bases. It's something deeper. First of all, we believe that it is beneficial to our country at the level of strategic cooperation. The reason being evolving at the moment and being upgraded - and it may take off, as I have described - is a different view of the United States of America as regards Greece, as a result of Turkey's behaviour. This feeling that Turkey is moving away from the West, this feeling that Turkey is not a reliable partner within NATO, leads the Americans to want to upgrade their relationship with Greece and strengthen their presence here not by troops, but by actions, synergies and with assistance in the development of infrastructure, which the Greek Armed Forces are ultimately fruitful. What I mean is that this is a society of interests. The American partners and allies in NATO invest in infrastructure they choose in specific and clearly defined Greek locations. At the same time, the coexistence of the Greek with American forces in specialists, as I said, and very specific facilities, significantly upgrades the level of education and experience that our Armed Forces can gain. What is being studied in Stefanovicio is a training centre for American and Greek helicopter operators, a base, that is to say, which will also welcome American and Greek helicopters to attend to. Other countries in Europe very much want to develop such synergies. Greece is chosen, because the conditions of coordination will also be more intensive and more appropriate, if you want, for both sides to get the best result. The investments made are for common use. They are used for Greek ownership US systems that exist or will be acquired in the future from our own side, as we have UAVs, unmanned air vehicles, for which there is an increasing need for aviation surveillance and surveillance purposes. There, then, further synergy is being developed. The Greek Armed Forces do not see this case as an opportunity to acquire other weapon systems at an opportunity price. This isn't about it. It is the development of a deeper relationship that develops as a friendship. He wants both sides to work on it. It is being tested in the difficult circumstances, but for the future it has only benefits and advantages and requires in-depth work. The coverage of the country's defence expenditure can be done in such a way that there is a scale economy in obtaining and supporting systems and added value in the economy. And this can only be done through the effective involvement of our defence industry. The upgrading of ODA - a basic condition for the existence of a modern and deterrent Air Force - passes through ten specific programmes - we will bring them to the House shortly - nine of which are American investments in the ODA infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u44	The rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u45	I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. It is enough to say that strategic cooperation is not the agreement on bases. It is a deeper synergy with investment in infrastructure, benefiting mainly from the Greek Armed Forces and a synergy that could bring about stronger defence shielding in our country in the present geopolitical context.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u46	Before giving the floor to Mr Marino, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers of Infrastructure and Transport, Economic, Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs submitted their 1-10-2019 draft law: “Incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives 2016/797, 2016/798 and 2016/2370 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions”. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, forty-five students and students and two teachers from the Elementary School of Gender. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Minutes of Monday 26 August 2019, Friday 30 August 2019, Wednesday 4 September 2019 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u47	The minutes of Monday 26 August 2019, Friday 30 August 2019, Wednesday 4 September 2019 were therefore validated. Mr Marinos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Greek-American agreement on bases, which you are preparing to convert into multiannual, already includes the Souda base. And your own posts, your interviews confess that the base of Larissa, Stefanoviciou and Alexandroupolis will be added. So this is the one prisoner. In this context, the country is further involved in imperialist planning and the presence of the Americans and NATO is strengthened and in other areas, as American Ambassador Piat has repeatedly said, with which you are tightened up. This cannot be overcome in the name of the various infrastructures or programmes of the ODA, because our people already pay 4 billion a year for armaments mainly for NATO's needs and cannot overcome this crucial problem with your own placement. The reality is painful. The Souda base is a basis for supporting US-Russian criminal projects in a wider region. And that's undeniable. For example, you know that in April 2017 there she loaded the Thomask missiles the US destroyer "PORTER" and launched them against the Syrian people. You know, too, that recently there was a publication of the magazine of the United States military base in Souda, which reads as follows: 'The expansion of the base airport is being prepared for new military operations'. It is a post in yesterday's "RIZOPAST", very revealing. There is no way that it will result in the pursuit of the government or any other party that will bend the anti-imperialist feeling of our people. It is the American imperialists who are responsible for dozens of interventions and wars, who have organised wars against Yugoslavia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya and Syria. They are threatening Iran today. And, unfortunately, you have promised that you will participate in the multinational force in the Persian Gulf four thousand miles away from Greece. The government of SYRIZA has paved the way and the Government of New Democracy continues this dirty work. The people must bear in mind that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u49	Mr Marino, I would ask you very much to complete this. I can't show any more tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u50	I'll be done. ...with your policy you have put the country in the eye of the cyclone. And you are familiar with the Russian and Iranian threats, that they will strike American targets when their interests are struck.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Marino, don't make me interrupt you. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u52	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u53	Not in a minute. Now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u54	That is why we want to call on the people of Athens on Saturday at 12 noon" in the great demonstration in the Constitution to assert its will against the US bases and agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Marino, listen. Because I'm responsible for keeping the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u56	There was a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u57	You're a new MP, and as I show everyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u58	I'm an old congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u59	You're new for today. I've never been presided over for the first time, and it's you. I know exactly what I'm saying. I showed tolerance. However, the tolerance of the Bureau, with whomever it sits here, does not take it as a weakness. It's kind, but don't abuse. The Minister for National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Comrade, you said in your dentistry about confession. One confesss to committing a crime. The government does not feel that it has committed a crime when developing strategic cooperation with the United States. I understand that we will not agree on that. But listen carefully to an example that I will develop and let this House judge whether it is criminal conduct on our part. I was in Alexandroupolis a few days ago, where - part of the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement, which provides for its partial use by the United States of America - work has been taking place to raise a dredge, which has been submerged in its port for many years and has never been able, with any attempt - although much has been done - to bring it up. The Americans came, they gave financial assistance and they are being carried out these days - the lifting of the dredge from the port of Alexandroupolis. We said that financial assistance is American, work is done with synergy between American and Greek companies, with Greek workers working alongside Americans, with American know-how working with Greek. The result is the solution to a problem, which has troubled the port of Alexandroupolis for many years. Who will benefit when the dredge comes out completely? Will the Americans alone mean the functional upgrading, the stimulation of activity in the port of Alexandroupolis for the benefit mainly of Alexandroupolis, the wider region and Greece? This is the synergy, which I am talking about, when I talk about deepening the strategic cooperation relationship. Greece is mainly benefiting from this case. And as I told you, there are other areas where this cooperation will be developed, which, until now, were, I would say, suppression, such as joint synergies in research and development, in new technologies, not in the market for expensive weapons, as I said, at an opportunity price. This isn't a retailer's case. It is an in-depth cooperation that has a perspective. It manifests itself with synergies and not with increased military presence. And as I finally said, it's like a deep friendship relationship. It comes from the past, it presupposes work on both sides, it is tested on the difficult side, it withstands the difficult, it is confirmed to be difficult and it shields for the future. This is strategic cooperation with the United States of America, this is the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement as a steward of this strategic agreement, which I think will upgrade our country to geopolitical importance, but it will also shield it as a society of interest, where if it is affected by the interests of one side and the other, with all that that implies, will enhance and shield our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK I would like to say first of all, because this is the first time for the newly elected Members to take part in an electronic vote, that I will keep it a little further so that, if there are problems, the officials responsible in this House can go to the chairs and help colleagues. We move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the following legislation of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "use" of equipment specified in 5A001.a. or 5A002.b., as follows: ‘Creation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the granting of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the marine region 10, Ionian Sea, Greece’. "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "use" of equipment specified in 5A001.a., 5A002.b. or 5A002.b.; or ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Repsol Exploracion S.A’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the granting of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the Ionian, Western Greece’, "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "production" of "production" specified in 1A003.a. or 1A003.b. ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V’, ‘ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V.’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’, to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the Southwest Crete Sea Area’, "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "use" of equipment specified in 5A007.a. or 5A007.b., as follows: ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V’, ‘ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the grant of the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the marine region ‘Western Crete’, Greece’. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Communist Party of Greece on the basis of the articles and all the above bills, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u63	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mrs. Konnakka Maria. Here. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Marinos George. Here you go. Mr. Papanastassis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Stoltides Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. In addition, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Mera25 in principle, of articles and all of these drafts, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u64	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Yanis Varoufakis. Here you go. Mrs. Angeliki Adamopoulou. Here. Mrs. Constantina Adamou. Here. Mrs. Maria Attmazidis. Here. Mr. Criton Arsenis. Here you go. Mr. Claus Gregoriadis. Here you go. Mr. George Georgiadis. Here you go. Mrs. Fotini Bakakada. Here. Mrs. Sophia Sakorafa. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. The application is therefore rejected. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. An electronic roll-call vote will take place at the outset, the articles and the entire bills of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Will the House agree to the four votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u66	The House has agreed. We would like to point out that - be careful, ladies and gentlemen, because you will be useful to the voting instructions - the vote includes a total of sixteen fields, from four to every bill. Each quarter shall include the principle, Article 1, the public office and the total for each of the four bills. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure you've voted on all the fields on the touch screens. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u67	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that we have received the Bureau of Members, Mr Panayotas, Mr Dunias and Mr Sophia Vultus, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'NAI'. Mr Irene Kasimatis, Mr Kyriou Malamas, Mr Nektarios Santoriniou and Mr Socrates Vardakis, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote "PAR". Mr Charalambou Kastanides, Mr Bourhan Barran and Mr Georgios Frangiides have also come to the Bureau, who know that they are absent from the vote and are drawn up with the vote of their party. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u69	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed. [[ELECTRONIC REMUNERATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to a five-minute break until the result is issued. Mr Athanasios will then come to the Chair, who will announce the result and then enter the procedure for the waiver of immunities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u71	I have the honour to inform you of the outcome of the roll-call vote on the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "A lease agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the company "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" for the grant of the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the maritime area of 10, Ionian Sea, Greece". A total of 282 Members voted on the principle. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAH', 181 Members voted. On the first point, 27 Members voted against. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "the Lease Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the company "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the maritime area 10, Ionian Sea, Greece" was accepted in the first place by a majority. A total of 282 Members voted on Article 1. In favour of Rule 1, namely 'NAH', they voted 181 Members. Pursuant to Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, 27 Members voted. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. Article 1 was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 282 Members voted on the agenda. In favour of the nominee article, i.e. 'NAH', 180 Members voted. In other words, 27 Members voted against the far-reaching article, i.e. 'OH'. 'Communities' voted 75 MPs. The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "the Lease Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the company "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the maritime area 10, Ionian Sea, Greece" was accepted in principle and on the articles by a majority. A total of 282 Members voted. In favour of the whole, i.e. 'NAH', 180 Members voted. On the whole, 27 Members voted against it. 'Communities' voted 75 MPs. The bill was accepted by a majority in total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Share Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the company ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ to grant the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the maritime region 10, Ionian Sea, Greece’ was accepted by a majority, in the first instance, of articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the outcome of the roll-call vote on the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: 'Following the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies 'Repsol Exploracion S.A' and 'Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company' to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the Ionian Sea region, Western Greece'. A total of 282 Members voted on the principle. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAH', 181 Members voted. On the first point, 27 Members voted against. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Undertaking of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Repsol Exploracion S.A’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the granting of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the maritime area ‘Ioniano’, Western Greece’ was accepted in principle by a majority. A total of 282 Members voted on Article 1. In favour of Rule 1, namely 'NAH', they voted 181 Members. Pursuant to Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, 27 Members voted. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. Article 1 was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 282 Members voted on the agenda. In favour of the nominee article, i.e. 'NAH', 180 Members voted. In other words, 27 Members voted against the far-reaching article, i.e. 'OH'. 'Communities' voted 75 MPs. Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. A total of 282 Members voted. In favour of the whole, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 181 Members. On the whole, 27 Members voted against it. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. The bill was accepted by a majority in total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Repsol Exploracion S.A’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the grant of the right of investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the maritime region ‘Ionian, Western Greece’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the outcome of a roll-call vote on the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Following the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies "Total E&P Greece B.V", "ExonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V." and "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the South-Western Crete area." [[Enter the text of the bill, p. 109a]] A total of 282 Members voted at the beginning of the bill. In favour of the principle, namely 'NAI', they voted 172 MPs. In other words, 36 Members voted against the principle. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. Consequently, the draft law: ‘Creation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V’, ‘ExonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V.’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the granting of the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the South-Western Crete’, was accepted in principle by a majority. A total of 282 Members voted on Article 1. In favour of the article, namely 'NAH', they voted 172 Members. In other words, 36 Members voted against this article. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. Article 1 was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 282 Members voted on the agenda. In favour of the nominee article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 172 Members. In other words, 36 Members voted against the nominee article, i.e. 36 Members voted against it. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law: ‘Creation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V’, ‘ExonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V.’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the granting of the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the South-Western Crete’, was accepted in principle and by a majority of the articles. A total of 282 Members voted. In addition, 172 MPs voted in favour of the whole. On the whole, 36 Members voted against it. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. The bill was accepted by a majority in total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V’, ‘ExonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V.’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’, to grant the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the maritime region ‘South-Western Crete’, Greece’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the outcome of the roll-call vote on the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Following the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies "Total E&P Greece B.V", "ExonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V" and "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the "Western Crete", Greece. A total of 282 Members voted on the principle. In favour of the principle, namely 'NAI', they voted 172 MPs. In other words, 36 Members voted against the principle. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V’, ‘ExonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’, to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the "Western Crete", Greece’, was accepted in principle by a majority. A total of 282 Members voted on Article 1. In favour of the article, namely 'NAH', they voted 172 Members. Against the article, i.e. 'Notice', 36 Members voted. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. Article 1 was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 282 Members voted on the agenda. In favour of the nominee article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 172 Members. In other words, 36 Members voted against the far-reaching article, i.e. 'OH, they voted. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V’, ‘ExonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’, to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the "Western Crete", Greece’, was accepted at the outset and on articles by a majority. A total of 282 Members voted. In addition, 172 MPs voted in favour of the whole. On the whole, 36 Members voted against it. 'Paris' voted 74 MPs. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy ‘Creation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V’, ‘ExonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’, to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons to the marine region ‘Western Crete’, Greece’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the protocol with the result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u76	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u77	The House has given the mandate requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for the waiver of immunity of Members: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament: Konstantinos Kyanakis, Dionysios Hatzidakis and Andreas Lovertou. The Report was announced on 1 October 2019 by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that the immunity of Constantine Kyranakis and Dionysios Hatzidakis should be waived, and unanimously, that Mr Andreas Loverd should be waived. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide by raising the hand or by raising the request of the public prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018, this procedure has triggered the new electronic roll-call system. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. The first case concerns Mr Konstantinos Kyranakis. The second case concerns Mr Dionysio Hatzidakis. The third case concerns Mr Andreas Loverdos. Does the House agree to propose Mr Loverd's case, why is there a coma from the President of the Change Movement to withdraw?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u79	The House has agreed. The President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats), therefore, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, thank you very much. In fact, in very short time, I would like to say a few words about the request to waive immunity from our Parliamentary representative Andreas Loverdos. I would therefore like to make three things clear: firstly, our parliamentary group is totally opposed to this request. We oppose it because it is clear that there is absolutely no evidence at all against it, but it is also clear that there is also a question of the legality of the whole procedure, and that should also be done by the Bureau of Parliament and by the other parties. Secondly, I would like to make it clear that it is clear that the case of NOVARTIS is not just a part of the scandal in the neuro-algal field, but also a political signal. Every day that passes it turns out that it was set up and operated a derogatory dark circuit, which was born in the inner parts of the right, but it was adopted, supported and wrought by SYRIZA. I have said - and I repeat - that justice cannot remain vague in the face of these developments which are a blow to the institutions and thus to the very functioning of our democracy. Thirdly, I would like to make it clear that all of us, the entire parliamentary group, will actively contribute so that in this pre-inquiry, the responsible parties in this dark case will be revealed. And let us not forget that the citizens are watching us and judging us all strictly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Loverdos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u82	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I begin with my saying and unambiguous request to waive my immunity. I don't need any parliamentary or ministerial privileges. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I'm going to crush the manufacturers with the weapons that all Greeks and all Greeks have. We have been targeted, my party and I, by our political opponents, and we have been used against us as an uncovered today, as Mrs Gennamas said, an offense ring with involved prosecutors. These dark circles I will crush them without parliamentary or ministerial privileges, because I don't need them. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Besides, the truth already shines without these privileges. Because we are the fourth time in this Chamber on this issue, one could argue that in the atmosphere, for us who were in the previous period of the House, there is a climate of déjà vu, that is, a sense of repetition. I am referring to the sense of repetition, ladies and gentlemen, because the meeting of 10 April 2019 has been preceded recently, during which Parliament once again considered a similar request, which concerned the lifting of my immunity. And then, at that meeting, I had quite clearly said that I do not need to call parliamentary or ministerial privileges and I do not want to benefit from either Article 86 or Article 62 of the Constitution. That is why when I left here after the vote and went to table my explanations, I did not raise my ministerial status and therefore their lack of competence. I wanted to go again, like all Greeks and all Greek women, even though I had said it - because for thirty years the case law has said the same - I had the most chance of my objection being accepted. I have broad and uniform case law. I don't need her. Face-to-face I will crush the pattern and before the face I will contribute to revealing the inspirations and performers of this knitted, whether they wear hood or not wear hood. That's what I said in April. But that's how it starts to happen. The resistance of honest judiciaries brings to light the lousy political, outrageous, raspberry, raspberry, which organized political and moral extermination of ten to the beginning of political persons, who, through their destruction, were also sought to destroy their political parties. Ladies and gentlemen, do not miss anything. We are aware of the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council. When the litigation was excursed from the Ministry of Justice to the Parliament through the Maximus Concert Hall, outside the Maximus Concert and said that this was the biggest scandal since the birth of the Greek state. That's what's left of it. But that's not all he said. He said that as former prosecutor - he invoked his experience - and with his partial knowledge of the file - this was forbidden to happen, how does a minister know what the file says? - He tells us it's the biggest scandal and he called on the political parties to clean themselves up. Mr Papagelopoulos has called on the political parties to be self-cleared. I think it is revealing now, after two years, what the plan was and how it was being implemented. I'll say more, even harder, on this matter. They thought our parties and ten of us were going to destroy them. And their media parrots were also talking about overthrowing the political system. Now, however, they will give reason, as the Constitution and the laws impose. So today, ladies and gentlemen, I am once again at the National Representation once again after my request for the waiver of my parliamentary immunity. Because that's the only way to defeat the goods will be overwhelming. Because that's how they're gonna have no pretext, how we've been hiding behind privileges that you, themselves, have been hiding for five years. The Ministers of the SYRIZA - ANEL, when such a matter was raised, told us: 'Article 86 and therefore not Article 62'. Five years of humiliation, the ministers told you that. You continue to do these a few weeks ago. So in a better way, when the way is transparent, I will help to pay for their crimes, as the law lays down. And as the first and greatest Greek poet has written for those who have been mistaken and destroyed, "...they have been incapacitated all..." that is, they have been destroyed by their own mistakes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is, of course, quite clear to me and to many people that I am in front of you today, because those involved in this dark case are trying to diversion to cover up their own methods and justify themselves. They are trying to remove their heavy criminal responsibilities and to use something as a leaf of figs or alibi for those prosecutors and the moral perpetrators who have collaborated in the upheaval of the country for two years and have attempted to discontinue the operation of the House - because the House is demanding Collapsation and Opposition - and to have them say: 'My child, find something found. Let us see it," ignoring that the seven cases have already been filed. It hides from those who become preachers that, in my case, the most disgraceful of a man's crime in this washing has been filed, not in April that he passed us but now. They filed it, after allowing some parrots to speak with whispers about money that - supposedly - were found to me, to others. For me, however, they had said at times. As the Secretary of our parliamentary group, Mr Kegeroglu, said, we are experiencing the last spasm of Rasputin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to go to the point of order for a moment. I'll speak lacquer today, because I've said it three more times in the House. I think that for older colleagues it is a repetition of well-known things. Who was I as PASOK Health Minister? I was the one who imposed e-prescription for the first time in Greece and I created EOPYY, which, if not there, would be a useless instrument. Because twenty-eight funds how to check what was going on in the field of illegal prescribing? I was the one who, from corruption and wastefulness, recovered on behalf of the citizens, on my own initiative, around EUR 2,000,000, with the help of Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and Mrs Katseli, and at the initiative of Mrs Katseli at first. When I delivered the pharmaceutical cost from the insurance funds, from 5,400,000 euros, I delivered it 3,300,000 euros. Then, Mr Salmas, Mr Georgiadis and Mr Vorides, handed it over to the government of SYRIZA about EUR 2 000 000, as much as it was for our population in relation to the other European countries. I was the one who, together with the two other ministers I mentioned earlier in PASOK, established the pricing based on the three lowest prices criterion in the European Union, while SYRIZA a few months ago made the system more expensive. It was done on the basis of the two lowest prices in the Eurozone, which are more expensive than in the European Union as a whole. This is how the invoicing of drugs worked. I was, I was, the one who, by one act, one day of 2011, reset the positive list. Did you wonder when he was abolished and why he was abolished? And I imposed tolls to get a drug in there. In one day, with a signature, we got back 262,000 euros from the companies. I started the electronic auctions at the hospitals. They didn't move forward and I don't even know where they are now. I have been presiding - I have repeatedly said that MP Constantopoulos, who is in our parliamentary group, ate a reel instead of me, sat in the hospital two months and has not yet come together -'rebate' and 'clawback' and the closed budgets on the medicine, i.e. the state giving EUR 2,000,000 and everything else, regardless of what doctors prescribe, is not paying for the state. Finally, I recovered many billions from all of this from waste and corruption in the field of health without support, with my office for months under occupation, and me acting as Minister in a car. I was, however, the one who resisted all five years of SYRIZA - ANEL. In this five-year period, I was ahead of the antipopulation front. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now convinced that this was my ticket to get into the pool, get into the tank of ten politicians hit by the construction. The blow to us, Loverdou, Venizelos and Kutrumanis, was the blow with which - I have said - the PASOK would be destroyed. Yes, though. We are here, we are alive, we are standing, we are the third political force of the country. Now, listen to the following phrases: "Give them," "Don't be afraid", "Don't be a MP again", "They won't win their parties in the elections", "Other party wins the election", "Or you will never see your children again." That's what the prosecutors said to a blackmailed witness who had a hood. Take it easy. He didn't say that. He didn't give me. He didn't give Samara, Stournara, Georgiadis. He was chased for it. They took his hood out and turned him into a defendant. We were conducting political, moral and personal extermination contracts with orders from a minister of the previous government, as the honest prosecutors say - how do we say so and what do we know about it? - for not accepting and not accepting to become a part of this circuit. These phrases will be heard by the Committee of Inquiry. The man who threatened him so - and he did not give in - will testify here to the pre-request committee. And listen, since December 2018, he had not been invited to tell the prosecutor about this. He's sitting. They haven't called him yet. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber, as far as I am concerned, there can be no legal doubt that the abuse of power has occurred. That's why I've filed a lawsuit for abuse of power against corruption prosecutors. I have the obligations of the Greek citizens and their rights. I don't want any objections to that. Greek and Greek have obligations and rights. I don't want ministerial, parliamentary. I will exercise all my rights in the most appropriate way, not by vengeance, not by repetition - despite the natural and moral suffering I have suffered for two years - but because I believe that nothing and no one can and could never stand above the truth, at least for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened must not be done again. The punishment of the guilty will dissuade them. No one will dare repeat such crimes. For all the years that pass, this case, as the parties or the MPs call it, will be taught in the constitutional and political history as the construction of an outlawed circuit, whose wretched vessels have been severely punished. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, that today's request for my immunity to be lifted is being discussed for the second time, but this request I would like to tell you that it is more serious and with less information than the previous one. I cannot tire you with many details, but I will tell you a few things that are really revealing and will help you to have an opinion, whether you are in the Couple or you are in the Opposition, for what has been done. Again, the most disgraceful offense, the rinsing thing, has been filed for me as well after a year and a half. While in April he had come here, they knew since that time that there is nothing, they put it. It can't be done! Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, they have been hidden and have not been assessed or in the file, but they have not been evaluated at all, five crucial documents, which I shall be tabling to you. First, it concerns Professor Maniadakis, who in March 2017 – there is a seal of Ryku and Toulupakis in this document - filed a multi-page report saying he had no relations with the Ministry of Health for at least a few years. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He testifies to these by his name, Nicholas Maniadakis. But even though he's being accused, and that's illegal, he's been prosecuted in a public interest witness. It is protected, that is, by anonymity. As a co-ordinator of the United States, he is presenting an extensive report on these matters. I have no right to present to her pages concerning other political persons, even though I have all the petitions. This is all in my hands last week. In the report, he states: "In Minister of Xinogiannakopoulou, Loverdos, Kitta: 2009 to October 2012. At this time with these three Ministers I had no formal or informal relationship, and they never asked me for anything." And underneath it says: "If anyone implys that I was Mr. Loverdos' advisor, it does so either because he does not know or because he has other purposes to serve." This document did not come to the House either. He's not in the file. He's missing from the file. To understand what you blame on the channels, what exactly is what you're talking about. I submit the relevant document. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A witness who was used against me, without a hood he testified to the judge responsible, that as long as I was Minister, he had neither listened to me nor seen me, even though he took part in in invoicing committees. That's file paper. He didn't send it to us, he hid it. I'm filing it. Another witness also states that what he said did not concern ‘NOVARTIS’. He generally talked about his theory of invoicing, and one more accused one of the "collapsers" of taking the money as a mistress for the advertising work he gave him. This is in the folder and you can find it, but it wasn't evaluated at all. It's like she doesn't exist, like she didn't say it. For two years this story has been dragging away and these are hiding. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One last thing that - if it wasn't tragic because it concerns me - as a lawyer who's a client's case, I'd laugh. They say that I had evil dealings with the manager - the Director-General, the deputy, I do not know what was - 'NOVARTIS', Mr. Froze. I, as I have said in the House three other times, met him a few weeks before I left the Ministry when the president of the multinational pharmaceutical industry was elected. I met him, and our conversation lasted for as long as there was a handshake, 'congratulations, Mr President, I'll see you.' The government's down, we haven't talked about it. But why did that happen? Why didn't I see him? Because I didn't see any representative of multinationals. I had asked for whatever matters they have, for their presiding office to tell me. So there was a delegation with Mr Philotes who was president, while I was Minister, who was President, who was Mr Philiotis. That's as far as it goes. I neither knew him nor knew what his name is nor where he is. On the road wherever I saw him, I wouldn't know who he was. They have in the file that he was asking me for an appointment in September, October, 2011. I was supposed to know him - false witnesses say - since 2009, and he hasn't been given a date, because I didn't give anyone, not that I didn't give him anything - I had nothing with him - I didn't know him to have anything. They record this and listen to how they evaluate it. Because he's asking for a meeting I don't give him, they're giving him a clue that I knew him. They say that because you refuse to see someone, you're presumed to see him. This cannot be forensic, this can be a procession, which produces people who are deprived - in front of their passion - of carrying out a mission - and elementary logic. Finally, ladies and gentlemen - my last technical phrase - I have described in this Chamber how medicines are invoiced and those who have made health ministers responsible for the medicine know that well. You get an act from behind it and it's - when I was - about twelve and a half thousand medicines, drugs. You're signing an act. I never asked - and I was not in a position because I was neither a doctor nor a doctor - how is one and how is the other medicine, how it is invoiced. I was asking if the committee was unanimous - it was always! - I was asking if the millions that had to be saved were to be saved, they told me that they were being saved, and when the troika came back, but also we, our statistical services, to verify that this savings were actually being made, I was satisfied because I was achieving my goals and trusting the people who did this job. I said they didn't make fun of me, so they said, so much was the reduction. From these twelve and a half thousand drugs stand out for three, four, to say something strange has happened here. I oppose this attempt to say this also by Ministries to try to falsify something, but it cannot be ignored, ladies and gentlemen, that these procedures concerned many people who had achieved in their work, institutional committees - I have read here documents on who participated - from all the bodies. It was very few of them to say that they were representatives of the Ministry. It was a heavy, institutional, multitude committee and always a unanimous committee when I signed it. There was an examination of objections and it was the final act that resulted from all these processes. There is no case at all the slightest thing that anyone could say to me and have a basis for what he says. But I would like to mention one, one that is very characteristic. I tell you that anyone would laugh if it hadn't been for him, as far as I'm concerned, if he was handling a client case and he would say 'these are stupid, we'll prove them'. There's a medicine that I learned when this case came out called Avastin. I don't know what disease this is, I don't remember. There was a claim in the case-file that we should also use it for the eyes, for the macular spot. They say on page 201 of the finding that I was glad to accept that this medicine should not be available - that it is illegal - for another purpose. On page 201, therefore, they say that this macular patch medicine should not be given. Then they forget what they've said and they ask why I didn't put it for the eyes, like the Minister puts a medicine on. Medicines enter for the diseases from the European Pharmacopoeia Organization and from the Greek Pharmacopoeia. It's not the ministers who put it. They wanted me to use a ministerial decision to put a medicine on? If a minister did this, how would he stand today in a similar case? Because I'm legal, am I wrong? Do me a favor! One question: did the next ministers change that? Nobody changed it. Why aren't they persecuted? No matter what you say about what they've assembled. Now, Mr. Tsipras. I am the first to say when the pre-examination 'No Tsipra' was discussed. Why not Tsipra? I was the first one to tell the media. Because, as far as I know, there's nothing that photographs him and therefore obliges the law to be observed. He took a political interest in it. Pacts from this Step in 2017, in response to Mr. Theodorakis, before they came out, began to say "NOVARTIS invoices". Pacts, in its central committee in January 2018, before the parade came to the House, said to Mr. Tsakalotos: "Ekylidis, what you will hear..." etc. etc. Okay. But the lawyers know that, to get involved in a moral automobile, they should help you with some evidence. If you don't figure that out and you're wrong, you're gonna pay for it, because when the judges take the case, they're gonna see it. No, therefore, it was wrong. Secondly, we were living him to seek it, to want to be charged with obtaining an agenda, to have something to say. That's why they preferred the Committee of Inquiry. Because in the Committee of Inquiry, there is no criminal pre-examination, and you say what you want. It was a top mistake for those who thought that this was how they should handle Mr. Tsipras. But he took advantage of this case until his last interview with SKAI, a few days before the elections. What did he say? When the case-file came here in April, it had the comedian thought, resulting from a testament of a hooded man, that in December 2010, I see at the headquarters of the MPs of SYRIZA and my former colleagues and colleagues in the then-government - that neither the Troika nor the Greek Government discussed the issue of bond haircuts, I knew that 2012 would be a haircut and I told them. The word "haircut" of bonds for me at that time was a hostile word. From our place, Mr. Simitis shared it first in March or April 2011 and I was one of the first to be hostile in his intervention there. He was right, it turns out, but it turned out years later. The haircuts were made since the summer of 2011 and were completed in February 2012. But I've known and told them since 2010, I haven't even been the master Calhas since I was, and that's how they took advantage of it. This ridiculous argument was raised by the judges in the case. That's not what he could stand. The former Prime Minister even says so now. So we have to understand how he tried to take advantage of this misery the man who had in his hands the fates of the country. Ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude - I have said twice to the Committee on Revision of the Constitution that if a Greek, Greek, student, asks: "Happy this Article 86.", which I have taken the first initiative to change, "... why, my child exists in the Constitution? Why is this article provided for in the Constitution?', I will show you and say, 'For them! For Greece has had such people who have done so for many decades and the political system, already from the beginning of the establishment of the Greek state, has provided for defences against the competition of political parties, where one opponent wanted to destroy the other." You are the explanation why Article 86 exists, which will eventually change with what you have done. It will change, while the mist of the behind the scenes has begun to dissolve and the light of truth to penetrate the dark curtain of the preparations. In this direction, ladies and gentlemen, I am the first to vote for the second time for the lifting of my immunity, even though I know that this month that has passed since the file came to Parliament that I am your alibi, so that you can say something on television in return for Mr Papagelopoulos and what he has done. Do not forget, however, that King Ferraeus said that all nation is wrong, when even one citizen is wrong. Whilst, ladies and gentlemen, in Arios Igos, a preliminary criminal investigation is being conducted for prosecutors, to check whether they have violated their oath, and while the House will recommend - and has already become a proposal of thirty Members - such a committee to see the responsibilities of the Minister, but also those who have committed the main offence of misuse of power, which are the prosecutors themselves. While these things have been done, they continue on me and on two colleagues who have not yet filed them, to carry out their work, while they had to prove their impartiality to have abstained and said "two years they trouble us, we wait two months to end this" and then do what they do. Any concept of impartiality and objectivity has been violated. So I could - Mrs Gennamas, you said - 'no, wait until the other cases are over and then...' as I could say what I said in the Ethics Committee and they called it three parties. Today, Mr Venizelos says this in an article in the best possible way - I would like to say this - that what we are doing is contrary to the Constitution, but it must be done, ladies and gentlemen, because this is the path that I have followed, and that is what I ask you all to do, to vote for the lifting of my immunity, because that is why I will be able to defeat them in a state without having the right to say anything, the slightest dilemma against me and to keep discussions for a long time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Everything is judged to the extent of ungratefulness and those who have done what they have done with vulgar announcements against my face, trying to overshadow the responsibilities of Papaggelopoulos, will be judged. It's over. The other measures and other weightings, but for you other things for us, are your actions for many years. Don't remind me of the recent immunity cases. That's enough! However, I would like to close by reading a passage from my speech here in Parliament's plenary in May 2018. I said: "An act of a merciless knit and a plan to exterminate political opponents with their position outside politics, i.e. by transforming them into persons who are involved in criminal law and not in politics, not in parliament, is another act of a merciful knit that contains the most disgusting element that can be imagined, which reminds of other dark times and which remains in history as a black part of this story, a black part, a black chapter" - I said at the time - "The first pages of it are written in 2018, because the main theme will be written in the next few months, when the leader, the subordinates, the members and the perpetrators of an old people who have organised this vulgarized knit". We've already learned a lot about who the hooders are about how they were blackmailed or enticed by some of them. In clear words, the pre-examination will hear them about the existence of a close relationship with the NOVARTIS case or with some other cases of some of them, which prevented them from becoming witnesses to the protection of anonymity. But all of them, ladies and gentlemen, have their time. Everything will be revealed on time. The members of the coil do not forget: Here it is Greece, it is a small country and nothing remains hidden. The insult and wounds they opened are only treated with punishment, with nothing else! Ladies and gentlemen, my last word. If my persecutors saw me as an easy victim because I belong to a smaller parliamentary party, if they promise to use me as a riot victim and an alibi for their addictions, which have begun to be revealed, I am able to reveal them and I declare them I will crush them with the power of my will. This power is not a metaphysical or personal estate. This power stems from the truth, which I know well. That power stems from my honesty. This force stems from the clarity and clarity of all my political path, and even this force is based on the revelations of the honest judges who refused to abuse their authority. Most of all, however, ladies and gentlemen, this force comes from the citizens who have stood and stand beside me. Ladies and gentlemen, with the strength that the Constitution gives me, the laws and the citizens, in the previous House, to two hundred and fifty Members, as it is about today, I had given my word of honour that those who were inspired and implemented the 'NOVARTIS' will be accountable. I repeat the same oath today before you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u83	The President of the Change Movement has asked for the floor for a minute. Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, listening to Andrew Loverdo after what he said, I would like to add that he is honoured by his attitude. He's not asking for any protection. He is not trying to hide, because he does not need it, as others have done the previous time in this Chamber. I would also add that we will vote in favour of the lifting, only because it calls for dignity for reasons of emotionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Varoufakis, I'll give you the floor immediately. But I would like to say something about a point that Mrs Genders and Mr Loverd have raised in relation to the procedure, as to whether the prosecution by the Prosecutor of Corruption could be carried out in view of the complaints made against her. I understand that it is a moral issue and has an ethical and ethical background. However, I would like to tell you a few things which relate to the validity of the Ethics Committee. Until July 1, 2019, the Prosecutor of Corruption, according to Law 4022/2011, when receiving an appeal, indictment or petition for the execution of an act of Minister not covered by Article 86 – whether or not it falls, the House said "no" and now came - for these cases which it did not act in accordance with Article 43 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and ordered the prosecution of criminal proceedings. However, under Article 36(1) of the new Criminal Code applicable, it was laid down that the Prosecutor of Corruption orders a preliminary examination, at the end of which it acts as laid down in Article 43. In other words, it shall order the competent prosecutor to exercise criminal prosecution or place it in the file by order. In other words, he does not exercise the same authority as Law 4022/2011. However, now on 9 August 2019, Law 4623/2019 suspending the application of the provisions of Articles 35 and 36 until 30 September 2019. The previous provisions of Law 4022/2011, read in conjunction with Articles 13 A and 263 of the Law 4022/2011, have also been reintroduced. I may bore non-legislatives, but these are necessary, to be understood, and perhaps they will be useful later on. Regardless of now of L.4623/2019, which was provisional, the prosecutor for corruption - and in this case Ms. Toulupakis, regardless of what you think, because I am not really in favour - had all the responsibilities laid down by Law 4022/2011 in the period from 9 August 2019 to 30 September 2019, when your case-file comes here. And regardless of Article 36 of the new Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which the competence to carry out a preliminary examination has not been removed, that is to say, the document by which the prosecutor of corruption has requested that the House rule whether or not your immunity is lifted...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, what do we care about? You've exceeded your role!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u89	You could've said it with two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u90	Listen, this document is not an act of criminal prosecution, nor even an act of preliminary examination, but a mere procedural act provided for in the Constitution. In fact, this act is done by the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow. I say this to settle the question that this was legally done, regardless of anything else. We had to put things in place. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in attending such debates on the lifting of parliamentary immunity, we in Mera25 confirm our position, our full opposition to the idea of parliamentary immunity. It was our pre-election commitment and remains our position today that none of us are entitled to immunity, whether we are MPs, ministers or former ministers. Let me have two words. The reason why parliamentary immunity is useful is that citizens out there are defenceless in the rain of prosecutions that our judicial and legal system allows us, firstly, to block the judicial system, the courts and, secondly, to leave the citizens in constant, multiple sues, actions and conflicts. The reason why, perhaps, we could not do our work as parliamentarians and as ministers, without immunity, is precisely the fact that citizens are defenceless in the context of a judicial system which is not working as it should be, so that I can justify our position, with regard to the specific applications for waiver of the three colleagues' immunity, is based on these two dimensions: the abolition of parliamentary immunity on the one hand and protection of citizens, whether they are parliamentarians or not, on the rain of sues which prevent the judicial system from operating properly, nor on the officials to be able to fulfil their duties. As immunity has not been lifted for all of us, we as a PART25 have not been abolished, and we are obviously not going to find ourselves in any way in the way of a colleague calling for his immunity to be lifted. We shall vote in favour, although in the specific case of Mr Loverdos, I would very much prefer the persecution of the positive women to whom the current Minister for Civil Protection has contributed. As regards, for example, Mr Hatzidakis, let me not think there is another citizen of the Old Faliroe in the Chamber today. If there is, I'm sorry. Because I know what an excellent mayor he was...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u92	You're talking about another Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u93	My mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u94	The President makes one overall position on all three cases. He won't talk after.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u95	He doesn't say about the minister. He's talking about the mayor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u96	I'm talking about the mayor. Is there or isn't there a case for a grave in the Old Faliro? As I know the course of the mayor, I would like to say that it is a good example of how the judiciary works, so that it does not allow the citizens to find their point of view when they are suing an authority, such as a municipal authority, or the mayor to be able to operate in circumstances where at any time anyone can judicially relinquish that official rather than the municipality. I conclude by saying that in this particular case of lifting, we will in fact agree with the Members calling for their immunity to be lifted. And we will start and continue our efforts to convince you, the rest of the MPs, regardless of party position, that we are not entitled to have immunity when citizens are defenseless in the face of a rain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u98	You will be given the floor, Mr Colleague. Mr Velopoulos, President of the Greek Solution, has been asked for the floor. Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I've known Andreas Loverdo personally for many years. I am not going to go into this story, I am honored, as is Mr Kyranakis and others, that they want their immunity to be waived. But I have to remind you of something. Another is the use of one sue and another the abuse. And I am against the immunity of the MPs. We all have to be. Let me remind you, of course, of some settlers today who tell us about immunity, that, when they were government, they have never done so, they have never decided to lift this shameful thing. When we go to Opposition, however, we remember shamefulness. When ruled, we forget it was shameful. So there is no suggestion that immunity should be lifted in here and that we should be a little serious, whether we are parliamentarians or party presidents. We're actually going for Mr. Loverdo. For me, it is not the essence of injustice towards Mr. Loverd's face, no, but the wrong message the citizen receives. A group party messed up with some politicians. I don't know if people had any evidence, but they lost the essence. billions of euros were lost, they went to doctors, to corporations, they went to various seminars, to various conferences and no one "paid it". These billions must be repaid, starting with the substance. Many doctors, Mr President, have been acquitted because the offences have been dropped. We sit down and discuss without proof whether Lover is guilty or not. This story is honoured by Mr. Loverdos, as is the case with other colleagues. But I have an objection to Mr. Kyranakis. It provides an honor to Mr. Kyranakis for wanting to waive his immunity. But wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. The MP won't be able to speak freely? Mr. Demetras represents a body that no longer exists, gentlemen. The Helsinki International Covenant Observatory has been denounced since 2007 for a number of irregularities and economic scandals, and its president has been in prison for millions of euros to be embezzled, and he represents a body. And because a Member of Parliament said something in his own parliamentary capacity, he sued him and dragged him to court. Do you know how many lawsuits Mr. Dimitris has done, Mr. President? Dozens. He's sued me, too. And what do we do? Are we going to make the referee whenever Demetras and each Demetras decide to sue and accept abundantly potent of this inappropriate attack on the parliamentary right of the Member to speak freely? Is that what we want? Should we have a barrier and a barrier? He's an outlaw, sir. I told you the Helsinki Watch is over. There isn't. The President-in-Office has been expelled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u100	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u101	Wait a minute, Mr. Pleari. You, too, voted in favour. Wait a minute. Don't be in a hurry. And I'll tell you what we'll do here, Mr. Pleari. We will vote against. Because no Demetras has the right to put Kyanaakis, Athanasios, Velopoulos in this size for no reason. Why am I saying that? Who's this gentleman? It is funded by George Soros, Open Society. Am I? And keep going. It is in favour of the Macedonian movement in Greece, in favour of the Turkish minority. This guy, then, drags a Member of Parliament to court. And I will vote for Mr. Dimitris against Mr. Cyranaki, against anyone in here. No, Mr. President. I'll testify to the Minutes what the Constitution says. He's talking about freedom of expression, parliamentary acquis. Not to think that if I say anything, someone's gonna sue me. Clearly, we have to say some things. There should be care, but not like that. 'Cause this gentleman has done the suspension industry. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In Article 52 in the Constitution - you know it, Mr Athanasios - it says 'free expression of popular will'. He says a number of things about the congressman. So if I'm talking, and I disagree there's a Macedonian minority in Greece, the guy will sue me. He's been suing me so far. If I disagree there's a Turkish minority, he'll sue me and drag me to court. It's my view. I might be wrong. Allow me. And I need to drive Cyanakis, who said something self-evident in court. I'll never do it! I'm figuring out in the Minutes who this gentleman is. Because he regulators Mr. Demetra of what we're going to say in here, I'm not going to make him, Mr. President. That's the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, it would be easier to answer your questions if you read Article 1 of Law 927/1979, as amended by Law 4285/2014, which is in line with what you said. But we are not responsible. They'll call the courts. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I will be simple. I think that we should respect the procedures, take up the credibility of the political system and also respect the personal positions of each of the Members who came here today to waive their immunity. We respect their proud and clear political position to come out to society and honor, clean up, defend their honor and reputation. Especially for Mr. Loverdos, I'll be very simple. We have also been placed in the committee in public too. While she could go with Article 86 of the Constitution, as Mrs Gennamas said before, she chose the straight path, she could go to society, essentially, so that she could go to the courts so that, as he has said, he could develop his overall position, which is not today's history to analyse it and be placed on both his and his political dimension. So our position is clear, we support their choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u104	Good. Another speaker did not ask for the floor. We shall now proceed to the first case, where the immunity of our colleague, Mr Konstantinos Kyranakis, is sought. Mr. Kyranakis has asked for the floor. I don't know if a colleague from the parliamentary groups wants to speak. Mr. Kyranakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't have much to say. I would just like to remind the House what this whole story is about. Two weeks before the elections on 7 July, I gave an interview on a well-known website, where I referred to the huge demographic problem facing our country in recent years. If one looks at the official evidence, if one sees the birth rate and death ratio in the country, births are thirty thousand a year less than deaths. We are practically losing as Greece an entire city, the size of Rethymno or Corinth or other cities, and this cannot leave us indifferent. That is why the New Democracy has proposed an integrated plan, part of which was a one-off allowance, a single aid of EUR 2,000 for every Greek person born in our country. As we have made an election commitment, the allowance will be given to the parents of all the children who automatically acquire Greek citizenship at birth, that is, even one of the two parents being a Greek citizen. That is why I also talked about the measure in the interview I made on the Internet. In reply to a number of questions about the beneficiaries of this allowance - and in the case-file this phrase is in - I explained that the allowance will be given to Greeks. So, for some reason, a NGOs considered it racist, considered it a rhetorical hate. And based on reports from the official media of SYRIZA, but also on an official announcement from PASOK, which accused me of a far-right agenda, he filed a lawsuit on July 3, four days before the elections, without specifying very clearly exactly what the offence is. I propose to the defenders of this message, who come from the Left, to create a dictionary of acceptable terms from the Left, to inform us whether or not this term "Greekopoulos" that you, Mrs Fotio, have used many times, is racist or not. We should at some point inform new couples who want to have children here, in Greece, how you allow them to call their children. I would therefore ask, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for my immunity to be lifted, not only because I, too, oppose the measure of parliamentary immunity, not only because I want to be tried like every Greek and every Greek person, but because I want as a member of this Parliament this decision as a member of the National Representation - whatever outcome it may have - to be a part of the case-law. Because we cannot all, every NGO, every person who regards as racist any national, just like that, for reasons of his own self-promotion, sue someone. So, explaining to many of my fellow Members who ask why I ask for the waiver of immunity, I want this case to come to the decision, which will be part of the case law, so that in future...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u106	The House doesn't think so. It's Parliament's law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u107	The courts, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u108	The House doesn't think so. The courts are counting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u109	That's what I'm telling you, Mrs. Canelley. I wish to go to the courts to be tried and the court's decision will be part of the case-law. That's exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u110	Don't interrupt, please. Basically you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u111	And this case-law must be used by anyone who wishes to use it in future, whether the Left allows it to use the term "Greekopoulos", Mrs Kanellis. That is what I have to say, Mr President. On the basis of what the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament provide, I would like to ask all colleagues to vote for my waiver of immunity, which I am the first to vote on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being followed by the diplomatic theories, after it has been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, a delegation of ten Members of the Australian Parliament. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of the House.]] We shall now proceed to the third case concerning Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis. I would like to ask whether there is a colleague who asks the floor, in accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u113	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I was really moved by what the President of Mera25 Mr Varoufakis said, coming from the Faliro, knows me. Indeed, the citizens are defenceless, but I too am a citizen, and I am defenceless. I've been to the courts twenty-seven times for duty violations, and the twenty-seven I've won them. You know there's a tendency for everyone to sue against others. Anyway. I want you to know there was a daughter's conflict with her father. The daughter had misplaced an aunt from stress. Families are in a tense state and father... I have to read this to you to understand. It's two words, Mr. President. "My daughter intentionally, secretly and in secret...". I looked to find out what "surprise" means. He did, he says, in a way beautiful and sweet as the priests do and passed through the burial. So they're against it. We asked the Legal Service and the Revenues about what to do and they told us that the right was in father's. The daughter has lost it. And he filed a lawsuit in 2014. In 2019, however, the municipality was relieved, but the law was ‘run’. Ladies and gentlemen, because I have learned in my life to fight with my powers, and because I do not want to see the citizens created in any way that, through my capacity as a Member of Parliament, I avoid the suffering of the courts, I ask for your vote to be taken to remove my immunity. I repeat, I ask for my immunity to be waived. And I know in the courts to fight and not to let some smart lawyers ask for mental pain, because we took the bones and put them in the osario. I won't let them! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to point out that the vote includes three different cases of the waiver of immunity from Members. I will now explain how the procedure is being done, although some information has been distributed to you. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one, press the arrow on the right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened and that Members vote on applications for waiver of immunity. [[VOCATIONAL TRAINING]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the electronic counting, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have also been sent to the Bureau. Ninas Kasimatis, Socrates Vardakis, Nektarios Santoriniu and Sunday Malama, who know that they will not be present in today's roll-call vote and make us aware of their intention to vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u118	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members. A total of 233 Members voted on the first case by Mr Constantine Kyranakis. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 219 Members voted. On the question of immunity, 14 Members voted against the motion for a resolution, i.e. 'NOVO'. 'PARON' voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. A total of 224 Members voted on the second case by Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 194 Members voted. On the question of immunity, 18 Members voted against it. "PARON" 12 MPs voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. On the third case by Mr Andreas Loverdou, they voted as a total of 225 Members. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 224 Members voted. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OR', he voted 1 Member. 'PARON' voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that tomorrow is the start of the Prime Minister's time. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-03-S1-commons.u121	With the consent of the House at 12.59 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 4 October 2019, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
