ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 7-32019 authorisation, its minutes of Thursday, 7 March 2019 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the adoption of all draft laws: 1.'Modernisation and Reform of the Private Clinics Institutional Framework, the establishment of a National Public Health Organisation, the establishment of a National Institute for Neoplasms and other provisions' and 2.'Research, exploitation and management of the country's geothermal potential, the establishment of the Hellenic Geological and Mining Research Authority, the ownership of natural gas distribution networks and other provisions.']] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Special session of the House for World Women's Day. First of all, I would like to thank the chosen guests, who have the honour of presenting themselves here, including Mrs Thanos who is Chairman of the Competition Committee, Mrs Papaspourou, who is a Public Administration Inspector, Mrs Kuneva Parliamentary of SYRIZA, former and current representatives of women's organisations, women's unions and former Secretaries of Equality. Thank you very much for your presence here, because we are always celebrating Women's Day, as a Greek Parliament, but today is an incision, because for the first time our country is taking part in the global strike of women from work and home. You know, this institution started in 2016 and has been established. Over the past few years, too many countries have participated around the world. It was impressive for women to participate in the general strike in Spain in 2018, in which five million women had participated. For the first time this year, this institution is also being honoured in our country, because it connects us with the struggles made by women in New York, by the textile workers in 1857. A massive and emblematic demonstration that was ruthlessly struck by the mechanisms of repression and, since then, it was considered necessary to honor the woman and her struggles, even though it began after 1910 to celebrate as an anniversary. In any case, I think that the declaration of participation in this global strike by parties - such as the women's part of SYRIZA, the women's section of KINAL, the women's section of KITSIOS, the women's section of the Occupied Alternatives - and the surprise for the Greek society will perhaps be this institution to be honored every year. The GSEE and the ADEDY and unions belonging to its power and at 14.00 hours the time is taking place a demonstration in the Propylaea, in order to publicly declare this special day to society and especially to women. Every year, as you know, the Greek Parliament honors the day of the woman. It is not typically honored, but essentially, by highlighting every time the different content and peaks of 8 March each year. Wanting to make an account, I went back to the Minutes to see what the Greek Parliament had to do with the anniversaries from 2015 until today. So in 2015, which was in the second month of governance, SYRIZA, when this day was celebrated in Parliament, the emphasis was placed on women who participated in the struggles, on politics, on women who were active citizens and who, in the years of the memorandum, had participated massively in the struggles that were held throughout the period. In fact, a series of women and representatives of the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance who have for years been protesting and staying on the street in tents outside the Treasury were awarded at that meeting. In 2016, on March 8th, as today, this day was celebrated and emphasised on refugee women. It was then the great refugee current to our country, where we were surprised to see women with babies in our arms or pregnant women using boats and crossing seas and fortresses in order to seek a safe haven, a shelter of freedom and solidarity. So we highlighted 2016 to these heroine women, war refugees. 2017 was a day dedicated mainly, by all speakers and speakers, to racial violence. There were a lot of incidents of rape, assault, felony abuse. In fact, there was the'moto' that today 'we are not celebrating or accepting visitors'. In 2018, the emphasis was on demand that our country ratify the Istanbul Convention. Indeed, this was a month later - not even a month later, it was on 5 April 2018 - where it became a law of the state and so we have this weapon in our patronage as women in claiming our rights and our self-defense. Before we even entered 2019, in November 2018, Eleni Topaloudi was murdered in Rhodes by aspiring rapists, which caused a global shock and a few days later, on 2 January, a woman from her father's hands was murdered in Corfu because she did not approve her love relationship with her partner. As soon as yesterday, in Crete, another young woman, a mother of two children, was murdered by her divorced husband. Women's organisations, women's organisations, are concerned about whether this is to become a social phenomenon, and so they are now talking about 'female murder', because it is not always possible to produce such phenomena, in addition to the other abuses and attacks that women are taking at home, at family and at work. So, today, through this timelessness of recent years, we want to point out that the problems of women are over time, as they are time-consuming, and the struggles she has given to defend her rights. This is very important. In fact, I wanted to stress that the Greek Parliament is also systematically dealing with women. He has organised talks - speeches and the Foundation of the Parliament, as well as reports on the women's movement in our country. Also, Parliament's TV dedicates many broadcasts to the woman, to honor her, and we have the joy today of having tabled a new draft law on effective equality, against racial violence, which in a few days' time will be the law of the state. But together with the institutional, and women's struggles have gone so far that conquests are constantly created and the vast majority of women awakened. However, we all understand that neither the institutions nor the international conventions nor the laws that are being passed are enough, because, unfortunately, prejudices and stereotypes are much stronger in society and are dominated by all these conquests that have taken place in recent years. That is why I think that women should take the case in their hands so that they can actually claim more rights. I hope, therefore, that in the next Parliament there will be more women MPs, more politicians to bend to the anonymous woman, to the majority of women, to speak of women who have no voice, to fight for women who do not have the power to fight and thus also to assume their role. I believe and wish women politicians also to create a women's political speech, a female political attitude, and not to copy male standards. Because what is special can be moved and recruited by women in politics, becoming political attraction for young girls, for students, students, women housewives, those who were all these time in the memorial age, because by dissolving the social state they took up all the duties themselves: to stimulate the unemployed husband and the unemployed children, to guard children, the elderly. For all the things that the Greek woman, this heroine woman, has achieved over the years, we must pay particular tribute and wish, through the institutions and through the struggles of the women's movement, that she can actually participate in politics and that generalised violence, abuse and violence against women, and their rights to widen. Let us never forget that a society is judged as democratic, solidarity, open, colorful, pluralist, on the basis of what the woman has in the context of society. Thank you very much for your attention. I shall now call on the Foreign Minister, Mr Marina Chrysovelonis, in Stepma, to welcome the government for ten minutes. Come on, Mrs. Chrysosvelloni.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr Angeliki Thanos, chosen and invited, it is a great honour and great responsibility to address the National Representation today 8 March, a day dedicated to women's struggles around the world for equality, rights, justice, sometimes for elementary and self-evident, but not least to us Europe's citizens - unfortunately, this is still happening - and in many corners of the earth in the first century, such as the right of girls to access education, women's request to participate and to enjoy evenly the product of their work, a job often undisturbed, but unequal, often inhuman and degrading conditions. Of course, apart from these cases, there is unemployment, which is also discriminatory, that is to say, the unemployed women are more than men. However, we are not working or claiming equality in unemployment, but equality in work. Today 8 March our minds, our thoughts, our interest, our hearts turn to women of every age, every country, every living level, social origin, education, religion or language, sexual orientation and any other characteristic and possibility to those who are more and more frequently denied, even the right to life, because of sex. We welcome and turn our actions on women who are struggling every day to respond to their multiple roles. Mostly we welcome women who are deprived of the opportunity to speak, to listen, to be seen, but are here, there are, fight, fight, fight, have a situation and hope for a better future that will not exclude them. We honour the struggling women of history, such as those in the late 19th century, and the beginnings of the 20th that have claimed through demonstrations, imprisonment, sacrifices with deaths and even revolutions to become discreet, to force them to establish for one day only a year a year to reflect the position of women in society. We welcome the World Strike launched since 2016 at the initiative of feminist and female organisations and the participation of millions of women throughout the world in it every 8 March. We encourage workers in our countries to participate today, since our country's organisations and unions have adopted this initiative for the first time. The problems are common, although they are not always the same, but the claims must be common and dynamic, to put an end to discrimination, exclusion, inequality, violence and gender-based murders. Every day we witness incidents of racial violence, abuse, exploitation, traficking, bullying, discrimination and murder with women because of a misguided mentality and stereotypes who want women to be submissive, negligible, always accountable, entrepreneurial, objective and property, second-class citizen and when inexistent, self-light, equal and free. In our country, there are no cases of racial violence, exploitation, discrimination and even murder. Eleni in Rhodes, Lina in Thessaloniki, Myrto in Paros, Angeliki in Corfu and just the day before Katerina in Sitia is just one of the recent cases that shocked us as individuals and society. Many others are playing behind closed doors, perhaps at the moment we are talking about. Every day, silent crimes that we understand as social and must concern us all and all, racial crimes that we receive as crimes against social cohesion and peace, against prosperity and development, against fundamental rights and human values, in the end against democracy itself, But there is hope and effort to deal with these phenomena. Every day there are many of those cases of racial violence that completely handle our structures in women's advisory centres, hostel houses, on SOS 15900 telephone line. Every day are the appointments of women of victims of violence, discrimination, inequalities with scientists from the Gender Equality Secretariat and the Equality Research Centre, the two pillars of state policy supervised by the Ministry of Home Affairs. There, in cooperation with municipalities and regions, the real battle that encourages and protects women from silence, break the cycle of violence, believe themselves again, change their lives, feel safe themselves, often and their children, become what they dream and realize what they want. For the first time in decades in Greece, a framework of conditions has been laid down in each Ministry, every organization, every company, to ensure gender equality in every area of modern social activity in Greece. It is an important step forward that Members and MPs, at least in the democratic arch, must vote and support, giving a message of equality on equality issues. Of course, we will also accept proposals for improvement. The National Action Plan for Gender Equality 2016-2020 was drawn up with the coordination of the General Secretariat for Gender Equality. Every day, action and policies are launched to support women in the family, in the work, in the rural economy, in unemployment and in specialization. The Istanbul Convention, namely the Council of Europe Convention setting out the code and the policies to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence, was ratified by law. I note that this convention was signed by the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 11 May 2011, at its centenary 20th meeting in Istanbul, but in the Memorandum of Greece the crisis and the implementation of neoliberal policies - not accidentally, in my view - had remained on the shelf until it was ratified by this government. In the next few days, once again, I will have the honour of representing our country and its voice of reaction to gender equality at the most important annual meeting at ministerial level, which takes place at the UN headquarters. There we have been preparing in recent months to promote the transnational dialogue on women's support issues and to develop partnerships in Europe, but also in the Mediterranean countries, where it interacts with the serious problem of refugee and immigration. Of course, in my opinion, gender equality will go through struggling until the functioning of the economy is, as far as possible, democratised. With neo-liberal, tax-free, unfair economic policies, let alone with the determination of the economy, equality cannot exist, neither of the sexes nor any other. Therefore, the major step by exiting the extinction of economic surveillance and the logic of the memoranda achieved by the Government in August 2018 creates a roadmap with a very good perspective on both gender equality issues and women's support. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have reasons not to celebrate, but to reflect on where we are, what we have achieved and how much we still have to do. However, we have reason to be content and content and to have hope. We do not think that we are advocating the unique and excellent one. We don't find out about America. We're not bragging about our sensitivity. We are rings of a long chain that will continue to unite people, baths, visions, goals, goals, struggles, efforts to consolidate equality in every aspect of the public and private sphere. We recognise and respect what has been done by predecessors, institutions, movements, organisations, scientists, individual citizens, men and women for gender equality. We address a large, public 'thank you' to those who have worked and worked in order to establish acquired rights, acquire rights, explore and often specialize, protecting the whole, the great, the Catholic, but also the unique, the personalized, the individual. I am addressing the National Representation in the capacity of the State Secretary for Home Affairs to work on gender equality and the elimination of racial violence, in other words, by implementing the government's decision to politically raise the issue of equality, for the first time at the State Secretary's level since last August. I am addressing you today, International Women's Day, at a time when we are discussing the new gender equality legislation in accordance with the parliamentary procedure. For the first time after many years, together with provisions on citizenship and reform of KLITHENHEN, after exhausting, painful cooperation, consultation and dialogue with representatives, institutions, movements, organisations, political parties, scientists, we bring to the House a bill setting out the framework for public and private spheres in which equality policies will be implemented, not optional, not selective, not random, not occasionally, not occasionally, at will and exception. We are introducing provisions which define the framework within which every municipality and every region, every ministry, every undertaking of more than 50 employees, every media, educational grade, health structure and any other body - a service - should be required on a permanent basis, with control mechanism and funding, to design and implement equality policies. We ensure the sustainability of the Gender Equality Secretariat and ERM structures, which are transformed into privileged structures. We maintain their human resources and valuable experience with funding from the state budget. We are introducing a quota for the participation of women in the national elections from 30% to 40% on all candidates for each combination of the electoral districts, as has been laid down by the 'CLISTENH' for the municipalities and regions, as will already be the case for the administrations of agricultural cooperatives and sports federations, after the legislation of the relevant ministries, in which colleagues have moved forward. We are laying down strict ethical rules for the removal of any gender discrimination and the removal of negative stereotypes from public documents, programmes and media advertisements. Finally, we are building a protection net for women victims of racist, sexist and discrimination, and we are strengthening cooperation at all levels, as has already been done in accordance with the intentions of cooperation we signed with the CEDEFOP and EIA on equality policies to be implemented by the young elected representatives after the May elections. We are in cooperation with all the Ministries for the implementation of equality policies, their assistance in the protection of victims of violence, the education of public officials, education from pre-school age, the information and awareness of pupils and every citizen. We are convinced that gender equality is an obligation on political action. It can unite us as citizens of Greece, Europe, the world, respond to violence, division, conservativeism, racism and new fascism, because just humanity, prosperity, development, democracy itself go through gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u3	Now I'll call the parties' representatives for five minutes to say hello. Mrs Vaguea, Member of the Larissa Parliament, has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u4	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Great women invited. Each of you proves in practice every day our power, our ability. Thank you for what you are doing, not just for women, but for all of the Greek people. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see that men are more in the Chamber today, which means that you recognize us. We will also deal with your own issues after we have resolved our own issues. Thank you very much, however. I could only say the song of my partner, Lucianos Kilaidonis - you will allow me to report personally - the anthem of the woman, Mary Panayotaras and get off of the Step, but I will not just say that. I'll make a short greeting. 8 March, International Women's Day, Day of Remembrance of Races of the Women's Rights Movement. It took many decades, many struggles, a lot of effort to gain the self-evident, equal rights between the two sexes, which the differences between them actually complement and constitute an invitation for the union, cooperation and association of their powers. The demands of the movement for women's rights, such as the right to physical integrity and autonomy, the right to be free from sexual violence, to vote, to hold public office, to conclude legal contracts, to have equal rights in family law, to work, to be paid with fair wages and equal pay, to have a reproductive right, to have property, to form, all of this was justified, that is, they were satisfied, in the sense that they were institutionally and legally registered. Good. Thank you very much. But what is going on in practice? In everyday life, in our society? Today, on 8 March 2019, International Women's Day, I wonder whether the struggles have completed their goal, whether the self-evident right of women to equality in practice has been achieved. The balance sheet is rather disappointing. Looks like the power of the female sex is scaring. Perhaps it always frightened those who grew up and grow up with stereotypes, to which they are invited to respond. "Be strong, be a hunter, have no sensations." Do you feel, like, the power of another man in your environment? That's equal to a threat, and you're invited to hit it. It is a social, broad and deep-rooted problem and the individual incidents are only the symptom at the top of the iceberg. The numbers speak for themselves. We still have a long way to go in the workplace so that we can talk about equal terms. See the percentages of women who attempt, occupying high-ranking positions and positions, which are found. It may be more, perhaps the road is more open than ever, but we are far from being able to talk about equality and equal opportunities. Even motherhood, the miracle of nature and human existence, is today, for many working mothers, cause of anxiety, fear and insecurity, and there is a reason for adopting an apologetic attitude to the more personal choice of their lives, that of motherhood. In short, our very strength often sees itself transformed into a hypothronic and ill way in weakness, in pain, in downgrading, in lack of freedom. Responsibility for this phenomenon burdens us all as a whole and as a society and as individuals, each and every one of us, which starts with the small choices of everyday life. So women have to overcome more obstacles and make a greater effort to prove their value, precisely because they grow up in a society that has not actually rooted out very strong stereotypes. For example, a beautiful woman is excluded from being smart and when a beautiful woman succeeds in any area, they are looking to find out which man is hiding behind the success of this woman, wife, father or even worse and lover. So for the woman even her beauty is considered suspicious and criminalized. You know, if she's pretty, that automatically means that she's causing men. Here we come to the woman's true freedom to manage her body and her love desire. Things for the man are self-evident and often termed as cheek and manhood, for the woman are provocative behavior and defiance. We come to the sad phenomenon in Greece of 2019, as the ladies who spoke before, women being abused to death by their husband, father, friend or acquaintance, as indicated by the tragic murders of Helen in Rhodes, Angeliki by Corfu, who was killed by her own father, Katerina from Sitia, who was killed by her husband and - to leave Greece - the twelve-year-old girl in Argentina, who was subjected to caesarean - because abortion is not allowed there because of catholicism - to remove her from her own fetus that her grandfather planted. To these martial women I dedicate from the Step of the House - which is the greatest, most important institution for democracy and which I have the honour of speaking today - Women's Day. But today, apart from an important occasion for an overall account, it also offers an opportunity to celebrate the strength and beauty of every woman, mother, daughter, sister, wife, friend. Besides, the woman means a lot more than that, because we can now choose what we want and what words we want to be described. Still today is an opportunity to honor all those women who, with their lives, their work, their social and/or personal struggles, have helped to reach what has been conquered so far, and even the simple and humble, many times unwritten women of our people, our mothers, our grandmothers, from whom we all come. Finally, I want to address all the women who are out there and who for whatever reason have lost faith in themselves, and say to them: "You are not alone, look around you. We're a lot of people. Don't be afraid of your strength. In the background, each of us knows very well what he wants and what he can. We're a lot and we're together." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u5	Mrs Sophia Vultesis, MP in Athens, New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u6	Good morning and many years to all women around the world. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in 2019 and have certainly changed much and improved, but today the day has to be dedicated to a very important fact, in spite of the progress that has been made over all these years - already since the beginning of the female movement - in recent years there has been a paradox stagnation. We don't miss the laws, we don't miss the Constitution. What we lack is that we do not face the problem in the face, no matter what we vote on. And since I have not learned the wooden language, like all women, to tell you that I do not personally like a law that is supposed to promote genuine equality and that he is compressed between arrangements in local government and in matters of citizenship, because this law loses his value. I would also like to point out, because there are ministers here, that the Amnesty International condemned the fact that the provision of the Criminal Code is getting worse. You have consulted the new Criminal Code. As far as Article 336 is concerned, there is no provision for the definition of rape to be determined on the basis of the absence of consensus. We are going back to the great and immediate danger, and it is even worse, because now it is only when there is a threat to life or physical integrity. So we don't miss the laws and we need to improve the laws. Non-progression, stagnation in the case of women is a regression. The European Commission's report shows that there has been an absolute stagnation for over a decade in all areas, such as the wage gap, which has been standing at 16% over all these years and on the issues of employment and employment, which are 11%. That is why I do not like these issues to be linked to the economic circumstances, the memoranda and the crises. There is another problem, and if we do not deal with it, we will not deal with the problem. Women in the European Union are more concerned with higher education institutions, but they are fewer in other areas. Greece has one of the smallest percentages everywhere, both in politics and in the digital economy and how many and who should care for the home and the children and for the issues of violence, which continue to be very important, in entrepreneurship and in the technology sector, in the issues of unemployment and in the areas of responsibility. There was a law on the administrative boards - which was never implemented - for the participation of women. Mostly the pay gap remains. There are, of course, the greatest differences in the European Union in the harmonisation of working and family life. I would like to say with this that the starting point between men and women remains different and the world and Greece continue to go on without all their machines on. However, we must also answer the question why this stagnation has been taking place all these years. I have come to the conclusion that the inclusion of women's rights in the general cedar of rights has removed momentum from this struggle. Of course, we will defend everyone's rights wherever they are and whatever they may be. However, the female issue cannot go in there. Women are more than half of the population, and they need to get back out of this frame and get back into it, alone: "Women's rights, equality, women", because we have no right to continue to progress without half the population in skills, skills and intelligence. And we have no right to underestimate women anymore. The fight for women needs to be restarted and distinguished from all other struggles. Because we have here the ladies who have been elected, and who represent us in various areas, I would like to say, Madam President, only one incident which is very important. As you know in Greece, women acquired the right to "election and vote" in 1952, but in that year they did not vote, because the electoral lists had not been completed. They voted in an alternate election next year in Thessaloniki, when a Thessaloniki MP suddenly died. And here there's a very interesting background. This alternate election was held in Thessaloniki on 7 December 1952. In those elections women took part for the first time and were in 1953. The way for the first female candidacy had been opened and five women rushed to test their luck, Helen Scoura from the Alert, Virginia Zanna from the EPPO and three independents. The two major parties, i.e. the Papagos party and the Plastira party, decided that a woman would enter the House - which is why they only put candidates for that alternate election - the world would lose. I have to tell you people are broken. The men's establishment of the time was uprooted and for the first time the politicians of two rival parties who fought long and hard, united with a common slogan "Or the woman or us". But what happened then? Marshal Papagos renounced the rebel MP who ran, an Aidon and deleted him from the Alert. And the Maker in America, because he was sick, renounced and erased his own rebel, an Anogiannakis. Then, after that, women entered the House with their sword. But it took many years to arrive in 1974, when the late Virginia Tsouterou was elected MP after the dictatorship of the colonists. He came out here and tried to get in and when the guard saw her, he said to her: "Women and other relatives on the gallery." It says that Virginia: "But I am not a husband, I am a MP." And then the police officer answered: "My lady, do not tire us any more, go up to the gallery." The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) of the European Democratic Alliance (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party They said to her: 'You will decorate our team'. Virginia, of course, did not want to decorate her team, wanted to throw walls, so these incidents she described in her book with the eloquent title "When the walls fall". So in order for the walls to fall - and I end up with it - we do not only need women, we need men who go in front of women's rights. We only need men who go in front of women's rights! The more these men are the better, and if all men are with us again, the better. Happy birthday again!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u7	I call in Stepma Mr. Scandalides, who is the exception. KINAL has a representative man, and I hope he'll say the best. Mr. Scandalidis, there is also equality in time. You have the floor for five minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u8	As far as I can tell, I have a huge privilege today! Ladies and gentlemen, the Women's Day is usually an opportunity for the announcement of messages and declarations on equality and the position of women in modern society, for the proper honour of the constant struggles of women and women's movements, which have led to great conquests for many decades. This Anniversary Approach is due to an explanation. Wakes up memories and points out new policy obligations toward the other half of the sky, reasons, measures, controversies, comparisons, announcements of new goals. I have the honour to represent at this step a profoundly progressive extension of the role of women in economic, political and social life in the country, which respected, supported and supported feminist movements along its way, strengthening their struggles and adopting a multitude of their proposals, an order linked to the abolition of the privilege, equal pay for equal work, political marriage, child care and working women, support for single mother, the restoration of gender equality in our legal system, strengthening political participation. We are proud that we have established one of the most progressive frameworks in Europe. Family law, labour law, pensions, in particular the guarantee of rural pensions, have changed evenly the type and letter of gender equality in our country, with the culmination of the ratification of the UN Convention against Discrimination in all areas. Since then, and always with the feminist movement, we have fought for equal rights and taken all those initiatives that strengthen the liberation of women. However, ladies and gentlemen, this Anniversary Approach, the presentation of a report, I do not think it suits the current situation, does not exhaust it. The problems, old and new, remain unsolved. They are not solved by opportunistic and election regulations. In Europe of the euro and equal opportunities women are still less rewarded than men. They are still victims of rape and sexual oppression. They continue to be treated as second-class citizens, because they happen to have a child in the world. They are still wrong in giving their rights for a long time. Women - object, male racism, violence, rape, prostitution, insecurity of motherhood, artificial fertilization, the need for social recognition of the dual role, are always present and warming problems. If the nail in the eye of our time, in the self-sufficiency of our daily culture, is social exclusion, condemnation to the margin, the impoverished masses of migrants, then the woman in the garbage of the development of our culture has the first reason for unemployment, drugs, the lack of housing, the condemnation to the margin, in a life without light and horizon. The abundance society coexists with disease, malnutrition, oppression, cultures that in the name of tradition condemn women for exploitation or use. The images of every foreigner are to us, where we see an immigrant drowning by hugging the child of the patronage, watching a young girl walking from the use of drugs in Maiandro, watching a working mother begging for a place in a public child station, in a village or in a town in our country. Let's not be fooled. Feminism, a progressive idea of the last century, has brought one of the greatest and beneficial twists, has opened a long path that has not completed it. The equal opportunities and merits society still has a way to go. The right to dignity, the basis and the foundation of true gender equality has not yet been conquered. That is why I repeat: the Anniversary Approach does not suit us. Women's Day is every day we fight to guarantee equality of opportunity and to eliminate discrimination against women, every day we try to create the conditions and conditions that allow women to participate in society and politics, not to be caught in the walls of the prejudices of traditional structures, traditional roles. Women's Day is every day we share a struggle for a new daily life that recognizes the change in our conditions of life, personal requirements, needs and obligations. Women's Day is every day to raise public awareness, to cooperate with international organisations to mobilise protective mechanisms against sexual exploitation, poverty, abuse, social exclusion of women at every corner of the planet. Gender equality is a prerequisite for democracy, development, cohesion and the dynamics of a modern society. Women have known for years to exploit every new conquest. They don't need protection. They only need the unobstructed and full recognition of their rights. Entities of a new culture of equality, solidarity and peaceful coexistence women are helping to build a more humane world. And if Europe would like to live a new era of rebirth and humanism, it would be a good thing to begin with equal rights, equality and equality. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to express a final thought looking at the future. In the world of open borders, in the world of post-feminism, there is only one way to go. I'm going to make it completely customary. Not in strong sex, yes in powerful, authentic and equitable relationships. Not at the level of differences, special roles, innumerable aesthetic pathways, different choices and experiences. Yes to guarantee coexistence through equal opportunities, equal rights, coexistence through different roads, genuine relationship through equal roles. Just as a man is not legitimate as a father - master, so the woman cannot and does not want to replace and copy him. There is always the place, the way, the opportunity for a life of measure and harmony, which connects equality with freedom, respect for dignity, ultimately the joy of creation. And Greece absolutely needs female energy, the speed of perception, the intuition and sensitivity of its women. If any prosperity - as everyone claims - can only rely on our knowledge and human resources, then the Greeks are not just half of the sky, not a quantitative entity, it is the measure of harmony that allows it. Look at the new generations of women in our country, the girls who parade, the things they work, the things they study, looking for life streets and the ones that have already won their lives and the distinction here and everywhere around the world. Species, form, content, mixed on the face of the new generation, on the face of a woman, from our best human, cultural and aesthetic traditions. In the dark of times we can look again at the future and fight for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u9	Mrs Eleni Zaroulia, MP in Athens of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u10	For us Greek nationalists, the woman celebrates all year round and not only a day that some have created for consumer reasons. The woman today is thrown from everywhere and is more vulnerable than ever, because she can only follow the decline of modern times. So where he was supposed to have won some acquired in historian history, he sees today, in the era of insurmountable liberalism, all of her struggles fall into voids and follow the common destiny of all our fellow humans by deterioration and exploitation in the field of work. The humiliation of moral and socialism is inconceivable from the falsification of the internationalists, those who do not believe in anything. So we see the woman, which gives life, abolish and convert to 'parent 1', 'parent 2'. Speaking today of women, I wish to refer to a model woman, because the example is more than anything. I will talk to you about the sister of Paul Mela, the hero who the ethnic leaders want us to forget and erase him from the books of history, Anna Mela - Papadopoulou. Anna Mela - Papadopoulou was the fourth of the seven children of Michael Mela and Helen Voutsina. The death of Pavlos Mela's brother in Macedonia on October 13, 1904, and the sad circumstances of the family then affected Anna deeply and decisively. After the martyrdom death of Paul's brother, the purpose of her life is to liberate Macedonia. When Balkan War I was declared on 11-9-1912, she left her two children in adolescence with their father and joined the army as a volunteer nurse. He served throughout the 1912-1922 ’ s, i.e. the two Balkan Wars, the North Mainland War, the First World War and the Asia Minor Campaign. Her amazing action, the one that made her legend not only for our fanatics but also for the Hellene, began in 1912 at the beginning of the First Balkan War. What he can't perform as a soldier fulfills as a nurse. When in surgery, when at night next to the wounded, it follows as a nurse the campaign in Macedonia and in the middle of the Balkan Wars it stays there to help those suffering from lots of infectious diseases. The woman who stayed in the history and consciousness of our people as the "military mother" and licked the pain of the injured, comforted the mutilated, read to the surgeon the letter of his beloved, was not other than the sister of Paul Mela, Anna Mela - Papadopoulou, a psychotic, dynamic but also extremely sensitive and religious Greek woman. On October 10, 1914, the Ministry of Military Staff of the Government of the Autonomous Epirus awards it the Iron War Stavron. For its action in Serbia during World War I, as head of the Greek Red Cross Mission, King Constantine I gave her the Silver Cross of the Saviour in December 1914. In the spring of 1915 she received the Serbian Medal of St. Andreas and the Cross of Empress Elizabeth of Austria for her services to the Serbs' captives. In Greece and Serbia, she was the first woman to become this honour. He even received the Silver Metallion Aretis and Sacrifice from the Athens Academy. During the post-war period he dealt with the huge problems of refugees from the Asia Minor Devastation. He fought to deal with tuberculosis, which scourged refugees and war fighters. He contributed to the extension of Thorakos Hospital of Diseases "Saveria", organized the Polyclical Athens near Omonia and the Association of "The Progress". For her and her work, English tourer Mabel Moore wrote. Anna Mela - Papadopoulou died in Athens and she was also subjected to tuberculosis. In the face of Anna Mela - Papadopoulou the Greek woman is honored, as should any true, virtuous woman. Today, however, in the time of decline, this woman has been neglected. Instead, the model that prevails today is a hermaphrodite fake, which, on the one hand, represents "the victim" and "pressed" and, on the other hand, thinks she's liberated, because they told her she could unravel the female species and that she must be proud and above all of the fate of women's nature. We golden women have bright examples of women like Anna Mela - Papadopoulou and we are trying to save the honor of the modern Greek woman in the years of our decline.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u11	I will give the floor to Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, MP for the Second Piraeus Party of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u12	Today's World Women's Day is a symbol of the struggle of the workers of the last century, for a better part-time, for human working conditions, to reduce working hours. It is a world day different from the others, which was first established in 1910 by the socialist conference, on a proposal from the great revolutionary Clara Chetkin. We are also honouring women who, with their struggle and struggle, pushed the wheel of history forward. We honor them, drawing from their example of strength, courage and optimism, to give today's struggles for work with rights, free and creative time, social protection of motherhood, public and free infrastructure and services for the needs of the family and its members. In this way of today's and future struggles we call on women, who, in their work, contribute to the production of all the social wealth, because only their own participation, thought, will and action can make the real difference, to start radical changes in the economy and society, to get rid of social discrimination, exploitation and oppression. Today, at the end of the second century of the 21st century, women's needs and rights are seen as luxury by their urban state and governments. Maternity protection is a cost to the State and to energy, a burden for the competitiveness of businesses and the economy. The current and yesterday's governments are also serving this policy. They strike every right of the working woman, equating downward wages and pensions, in the name of gender equality. Is it possible to speak of measures of fundamental support and protection of maternity, without conflicting with the European Union and the flexible working relationships which it promotes, namely part-time and temporary employment, fixed-term contracts in the private and public sectors, the misguided status of rental work? How can the mother who works under a one-month or one-day contract be protected if the laws allowing businesses to deprive them of leave for pregnancy and childbirth are not abolished, throw them into unemployment when they consider motherhood to be counterproductive? When the policy of the European Union, the current government, yesterday, closes the slang of state funding for public health, welfare, family support, protection of human life and the environment, for which woman, in fact, are they interested in what declarations and declarations are being made today? And all this at a time when scientific and technological development can ensure that all, based on the subject of their qualifications, work hours, working hours with fewer hours of work, increases in wages and pensions, through measures to protect maternity, the women's organization at work, with limits on retirement age for women at fifty-five and fifty-years for those working in heavy and decent pensions. As far as we are concerned, let us not forget the dozens of working women's accidents in the cleansing of municipalities, the redundancies of pregnant women, the disgrace of being dragged into the courts of working women, trade unionists, cleaners. As for the debate on the emergence of women in the institutions of governance and management of businesses, topicality is enlightening. Let's not hide behind our finger. The employers' instructions to supermarket workers smile because they have - they say - a job and they are paid at EUR 300, they have the signature of a manager. So the attack on women's rights has the signature of those defending the bloody path of capitalist development, the directions of the European Union, regardless of gender. The participation of women everywhere in the labour unions, professional associations, rural clubs and women's associations, but also in municipal, regional councils, in Parliament, may be essential to serve labour interests in everyday class struggles. Modern and progressive is the common struggle between men and women for equal rights at work, social life and action. Conservation is the cultivation of competition between sexes, sowing polluting values that lead to a downward equation of the working, insurance rights of women and men. To satisfy the modern rights of women as a whole is not a luxury, but a need. And we, the Communist Party of Greece, claim them consistently and firmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two teachers attending from the 4th General School of Corfu. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will now give the floor to Mr Mario Georgiadis, I will be Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens of the Central Association. Then he will speak, the Minister for the Interior will make a brief closure, Mr. Alexis Haritsis, and then the President of the Parliament will say a short welcome. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President, and many years. Ladies and gentlemen, I too feel lucky, as Mr Scandalidis said earlier, to speak as men for women rather than women themselves about their rights. The woman’s value and contribution over time from human history, even from ancient history, is undoubtedly important. This can be seen from the ancient Greek tradition, which the Athenians gave Athena the name of the city and dedicated to the women's goddess of wisdom and productivity rather than to the one that symbolized the fence and power of Poseidon. Another example is the Aspasia that, according to Plato, was excellent in writing rhetorical reasons and perhaps Pericles was trained next to her. Good Helen, Penelope, was a mistress for Homer. Our national poet Dionysius Solomos, although known for his “Hymnos to freedom”, wrote one of the most beautiful love poems about his “Grouped” goddess. Hypatia, some centuries later, changed the world's perspective of mathematics and astronomy, while in the century that Margaret Hamilton spent on, she wrote the code to send the first people to the moon. Whatever the stone of culture and science, and if you pick up on the achievements of art and letters, no matter what you see, I wouldn't say underneath, but beside and from behind there's a woman.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u15	Never in the front!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u16	And forward! The woman has always been first in all areas of human activity - in which case, despite the fact that in a male-dominated society many times the recognition was not attributed to her. Unfortunately, humanity has passed dark times - and it is still going through - which have been stigmatized for gender inequality. A characteristic example is the recognition of women's civil rights first introduced in New Zealand in 1893. Russia and Canada followed in 1917 and America in 1920, while in Greece women gained the right to vote and stand for election in May 1952. And as I mentioned earlier - Mrs Vultesis, if I am not mistaken, mentioned it - the first Greek MP, the Volitiss Eleni Scoura, was elected in Thessaloniki with the party of the "Greek Alarm" and in her first statement she raised issues about the rights, which demonstrate the timeless sensitivity of women to the social awareness and the citizens in need. Unfortunately, however, even today there have been countries in which the rights of women in the West have been acquired. In many societies, women are treated as a thing or an object or a recipient of violence. The multi-advertised gender equality is not a reality for advanced countries, for example our own. And we saw recent events, killing women, rape them to death or even recently, yesterday, a few days ago, supposed fans to stab a woman in the street. These are unacceptable on today's day. I cannot imagine that there is any - either a man or a woman - any human being who is being convicted of another human being, let alone one woman. Survival and evolution in the workplace of women are not necessarily dependent on their cognitive skills, as a man must fight twice as much as a man can to prove himself. We must finally get away from all these social stereotypes and recognise the woman not only her multiple status but also her particular abilities. In our country the average age at which the woman decides to give birth is growing and we see in the last few years since the 30.5 years that were in 2011 at the moment it has reached 31.4 years in 2017. Last year one of the four women concerned a mother of thirty - five to thirty - nine years old. Unfortunately, our population is ageing and growing and the Greek state must take serious measures on demographics, which will be one of our country's biggest problems in the near future. Women give the struggle every day, and the state owes not only the International Women's Day but every day to adopt measures and make it their best help in their difficult work. It's beyond, as I said, my imagination of touching a woman different from the way we should touch her. I wish you all - and I appeal to men - to find your own "Good Helen", to find your own "Penelopi", to find your own port. I've found it all, and I think I'm lucky in life, because I have next to me and my mother, I have my side and my daughter, and I have my side and my partner, and I wouldn't change them with anyone in the world. Behave in women like flowers, take care of them and do not abuse them either physically or verbally - there is verbal violence - and I urge you to be kind to them, because it is the most beautiful thing in life. Thank you! I wish you many years! And thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u17	I will now give Mr. Haritsi the floor. Minister, as you are in a ministry that has all the structures and institutions of equality and protection of rights, tell us two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a hundred years since the first celebration in 1910 at the Congress of the Socialist International of Women and a hundred and sixty-two years from the historic strike of the workers of New York calling for better working conditions and equality for women in distant 1857, which also triggered the establishment of March 8 as World Women's Day, the struggle to eliminate discrimination against women and achieve substantial equality between sexes remains timely. We see this in a number of areas of public and private life where discrimination persists and equality is still being sought today. We see this much more in a series of worrying trends that make their appearance internationally, which challenge women's rights and threaten to turn us back to a shameful past where women were on the sidelines. We also see it in the rise of far-fledged political forces that have made their flag of uncovered sexism, the deterioration of women, and even violence against them, an extreme right that blames both feminism and gender equality as responsible for the multifaceted crisis of modern societies. But also in our country, of course, we still have a long way to go, so that we can be proud that we have left the discrimination and inequality against women behind. Because, of course, it is unacceptable for a country such as Greece to catch up in the European Union's latest positions in the gender equality index, with men showing up as the least willing in Europe helping to raise children's and household jobs, with the employment rate of men in our country being 61% and the corresponding figure for women being just 43%. In addition, women get less paid than men in almost all professional categories, in percentages starting from 5% to at least 20%. Not to mention, of course, other aspects of this inequality, unquantitated forms of discrimination and the degradation of women, such as their sexist representation and their provocative objectivity from a portion of the media, sexual harassment at the workplace and violence in the family environment and much more. So we have a long way to go. The fight for true gender equality is not about the past, but about the present day. It is a struggle that we must give at all levels, in cultural, ideological, social, political and, of course, institutional level. And as I spoke about the institutional level, after the very important ratification of the Istanbul Convention about a year ago, we have tabled, as the Ministry of Interior, a bill which, on Tuesday, is introduced into the committees of Parliament, which is important to promote essential gender equality and to combat racial violence. The bill contains a number of provisions that strengthen the representation of women and the House, as we have recently done in the area of self-government, embody the gender dimension in the preparation of public documents, but also in all phases of planning, implementation and evaluation of public policies, while ensuring that gender equality and employment are effectively guaranteed, stating that employers are obliged to eliminate factors which favour gender discrimination in the working environment. It includes additional measures to promote gender equality in the media, the advertising and the responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council. More critical, however, are, in my opinion, the arrangements for operating an integrated network of local structures aimed at preventing and tackling violence against women. In particular, there is provision for the operation of consultancy centres for women throughout the country, staffed with specialised staff. These centres will be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior and the municipalities throughout the country and will assist women victims as well as specialist social and legal support. Obviously, we do not have the illusion, the illusion that structural socio-political diseases can be tackled with a bill alone. I think, however, that this is an integrated institutional intervention that covers considerable gaps in legislation in terms of promoting equality for the fight against violence against women. I therefore hope that in the next few days and in the House there will be a very substantial dialogue on these issues and that all the democratic wings of this House will support this important reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Parliament will be closed with a greeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much for your presence, Mrs former Prime Minister, former and current MEPs, Secretary-General in critical areas where issues are at stake for the whole of our society, for men and women and for the General Secretariat of Gender Equality, as you have left your print and in previous years with the struggles every day and from the political link and from all other women's organisations, with the struggles we are talking about today. Ladies and gentlemen, I think they have heard from all aspects of the issues that are concentrating and documenting that important steps have been or are being taken in the field of formal institutional safeguarding of equality issues, which have occasionally been recorded as major problems. That's very important. However, I would like to say very straightforwardly that with the provisions of these legislations and international treaties, which by the Greek Parliament are being ratified, legalized, formulated, as they have already been heard, we should all realise that there is a front to deny that there is an issue within our society, within the world internationally and in the country. It is a social and political front, which creates a strong resistance to tolerances on discrimination, with insanity on all levels, even when it comes to the surface topics, with jokes passing as secondary and triangular themes which come or which, instead of studying them at their value, deceive them. There is such a front and there must be a conflict. I repeat that there must be a democratic cross-party conflict both within and between women's organisations. But it's our duty against this front. It's real, everyday. We're experiencing it. Reflects and concentrates on the silence of local societies or society in general and the silence of institutions. For example, an excellent initiative has been taken in recent years by women policemen, who know very well what is going on in police stations, when according to the law and the modern legislation we have, they eventually reach police departments cases involving violence, sexual abuse, verbal abuse, racial situations unacceptable to all issues. If we look at what is finally happening within police departments - there are indeed reports on these issues - we will see the distance from formal institutionalisation of legislation supporting the elimination of discrimination and the achievement of minimum equality conditions until real life. As we say about'real economy' in here - and we have learned well - so there is a real life issue here, namely how societies behave like state institutions, how people behave, who, for reasons of education, tradition, submit to the patriarchal and paternalistic attitudes and structures, behave in a way which, in no way, does not implement this guarantee scheme - and therefore prevent other incidents - to women who are in existence. We should also look at the reports from the structures, which have been developed for poor women, namely, after how much suffering, how many filters, how much effort, how much struggle they reach the complaint and reach the hospitality there, we are really going to realise that there is a huge difference between what is going on in society from what we are here - rightly because they are elements providing a guarantee framework - we are legislating. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very important. If we look at the word of our own, the word of the great majority of our own colleagues, men and women, who are consciously or unconsciously involved, confessed or unconsciously in this forefront of silence, on this front of not accepting the problem with the other women, if we see our word of politics in here, but also in panels and elsewhere as journalists, words such as 'androidism', 'patriarchal structure','sexism', 'female murders' have not entered as something obvious to be hit, to be pointed out. There is also a reason, in their rhetoric, for self-determination, because they are seen as words and labels which do not have in common, perhaps in a middle state of a society that does not accept this terminology, which is quite self-evident, because it goes through all the hints of 'deliveries' and of our own society, but also of what is happening worldwide, internationally and in the metropolitan areas of so-called 'developed' countries - and we have all the facts and symptoms that have been developed - how much more than in very large countries, which, because of the present phase of globalisation and the Internet, have entered one way or another in the forefront and are becoming known criminal phenomena towards women. Thus, even terminology, rhetoric shows the unconsciousness of the problem, certainly non-strategic and that it is a struggle, a war, which is taking place between the fronts, which have realised or not realised this situation. That is why I think that such discussions - and I am glad to hear from a number of representatives of parties very good and serious points - should signify a presence within the women's movement, which is extremely diverse. It has several feminism traditions, it has traditions within the labour movement and its class and order structure. Through this diversity - there is no need for movements to have a form -, through the intensity of these movements, with the political forces, with the power, with these patriarchal and dominating structures, to strengthen, support, encourage this struggle, so that we have a sense of consciousness, conscience for our children, for our girls, for our women, for our mothers, but above all for all for all the other women - whether they are refugees and immigrants, whether they are in the region or they are here - who are forced into silence and marginalized by the places of work up to the family, to make their problem. This solidarity wants to be militarized, it needs to be realised, it needs to be regulated, it wants to be regulated, society, the state through all its structures to strengthen, it wants to support this struggle and, above all, it wants a culture, for the whole of our society, a culture of coexistence, communication and genuine equality, so that sooner or later, things are seen to be solved for some, to be solved and solved, in essence, within society. I am sorry to say - and I am closing down - that there are too many women, even political women, in contrast to the ladies who have spoken today and are aware of the issues - I mean the ladies of the parties of the democratic arch - who, because they have arrived, in one way or another, certainly meritfully, at a level either as politicians or as entrepreneurs, or as artists, etc., not just deceive, but are striving against feminist women's demands, as if they were something, which is exoclimatic, as if it is something, which does not respond to the real needs of society, but which is already an open road with equal opportunities, without discrimination for men and women, which can reach anywhere, without any obstacle. This unforgettable catastrophe in the patriarchal structure, the paternalistic structures, the stereotypes, which produce and reproduce discrimination, violence, the precarious situations of oppression and the silence in the house, must be broken. And it'll break, only with a fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the special meeting, dedicated to the International Women's Day, was completed. Thank you very much for your participation and your honour, and we hope that every year, things will be more and more optimistic. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they were previously informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-eight students and students and six teachers from the Municipal Schools of Agia Trinity and Peristeras of Thessaloniki. We welcome you to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the reading of petitions. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the discussion of the third under No 406/4-3-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Problems in Western Thessaloniki about prolonged gases and unbearable dysosmia". Mr Socrates Famelos will answer Mr Socrates Famelos in his timely question. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, western Thessaloniki, we fight and claim that it is the backyard of Thessaloniki. Thessaloniki for us does not begin and end in the centre of the city, in Tsimiki, in HANTH and in the International Exhibition. We are entitled to say this because, together with the citizens, together with the collectives, together with the municipalities, we have designed, implemented and implemented interventions that were ponding, delayed for decades, always in relation to the western side of the city. We have brought these cases and claimed them both through Parliament and, in particular, as Members of the Coupling and not of the Opposition, i.e. - in introductory terms - a 'block' of dispute and confrontation with the Government. We did this as follows: Asked about the super-local park of the former camp of Paul Mella with the contribution of former Minister of Defence Panos Kammenos. By questioning the major gaps in school infrastructure, the school roof and the following and the commitment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Christos Spirtzi to plan a three-year construction of new school rooms especially in the Municipality of Erosmos - Cordeliou. With two questions to join forces to protect and give life to the Thermaikos Gulf, the liquid court of Thessaloniki with the creation of the Thermaikos Gulf Protection Agency. Asked about the pediatric hospital in Western Thessaloniki and the proposal to rise in the former Karatsiou camp, which the government did not accept by choosing Fillyro as a building site. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I now come to the topical question on October 17, 2016, on dysosmia in Euosmos and Cordelio. I mention the suspicious 2016 time, not to say that on the eve of the elections the sensitivity to the austerity has caught you. My second question today on the same subject, two years and four months later, with your predecessor in question then, Yiannis Tsironis, is an opportunity for reflection, accountability, vigilance and mobilisation. The coastal axis up to the Kalochori lagoon, the road axis from the church of Saints Panton to the SIDENIOR, from Mennemeni and the Vineyards, from Euosmos and Cordelios, from Eucarpia and Meteora, Stavroupolis and Polichni, Sicily and Neapoli claim the right to life in terms and conditions of a European country. Multi-annual, intense, unbearable dysosmia is a daily problem for western Thessaloniki. The breath that for all is a self-evident right for the citizens of western Thessaloniki is a daily suffering. They do not know the exact causes of austerity, but they are confronted with its consequences, such as the eyes squeezing, closed windows and the impossibility of going out into their balconies, which make their everyday lives hopeless. They suspect the refineries, suspect the ELPE. That's where they look. Citizens connect the polluter cocktail to the areas where they live with amoosmia and pollutants from the operation of refineries, large oil warehouses and other industrial activities. There are complaints that have mobilised justice. In fact, there was a direct intervention by the Prosecutor of Thessaloniki on this matter. It is clear from 1999 that this responsibility to monitor the measurement of environmental, air pollution is the responsibility of the regional administration at the time and then of the regional authorities. But since 1999 we have arrived in April 2018 to measure and record the gaseous pollution in western Thessaloniki nine total of polluters. Recently Professor Constantine Samara presented the interim report on the results of the measurements. I know four of the twelve because we don't have time. Two mercaptans were measured at very high levels, which are immediately felt in the odor. Their concentration is significantly higher in Cordelio than in the rest of Thessaloniki. The highest concentrations of mercaptans were recorded in the emergency sampling and we have reported episodes of dysosmia. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] And fourthly, high concentrations were recorded within the ELPEs with the highest in the tank and in the mud drying plant. The concentrations there were more than ten times the Cordellion. The university teacher concludes: ‘All this leads to the conclusion that dysosmia comes from the mud dehydration plant and the ELPE sewage treatment plant’. Two years and four months after my first time question, I ask, Minister, what have we done, what have we recorded, what have we mobilized? Because the citizens are full of words. They want concrete measures with measurable results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u25	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say, Mr Triantafylides, that you are giving us the opportunity to discuss a very serious issue, a very important day for all of us, which is beginning with women, but it is for us all to have young and young teachers from Thessaloniki to hear the question and the answer. This is a very serious matter. It concerns health and atmosphere issues, and I must say that today a lot of people, rather than Western Thessaloniki, have been waiting to hear about these issues, since the subject is very topical in the last two weeks. But for the citizens of Cordelius and Evros it is daily in news, because I too have received many calls and protests about intense discomfort and inability, if you like, almost living in the region. We therefore want to inform ourselves of all the procedures that have been taken since 2016, because then, with our encouragement, the state, the government, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, a serious intervention has finally begun in the western Thessaloniki and in the level of measurements and in the level of projects. Because it is not only the measurements and monitoring of the environment, but also the suspension of the reasons why the dysosmia is currently being created. There was a first meeting with my predecessor, Mr Tsironi, with the actors in the region, the citizens, after a strong episode of dysosmia, and then it was decided with our support that two, first and foremost, major initiatives should be taken. First of all, to strengthen the air pollution measurement station in Cordelio and, secondly, to become a major program by the University of Thessaloniki for the pollutants, their source and the cause of the dysosmia. Upgrade of the air pollution measurement station in Cordelio was made by the Green Fund with a decision taken and completed for EUR 131 500 at 31-3-2017. We have therefore approved funding for this station, so that the cage can be changed, because it has had considerable problems of sealing and oxidation in the past. Unfortunately, there were such issues and we identified them immediately when there was a lot of discussion at the time. This station, which is supervised by the Region of Central Macedonia, was also equipped with two new analysts, one for methane, non-methane and wind hydrocarbons and one for sulphuric compounds, i.e. mercaptans, often the cause of dysosmia. A further equipment for calibration of ozone measurements was also added. The methane analyst was placed on 6-12-2018 and the second sulfur analyst was installed on 18-1-2019. I say this in comparison to the date the funding was approved by us. At the same time, with the funding of the equipment from ELPE, the research programme of Ms Samaras, the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, was launched with the aim of recording hard chemical compounds. You understand that immediately the Ministry of the Environment ensured the resources and this whole period is pressing in communication, but also with the operation of environmental inspectors. In the context of the College of Inspectors, then, we also started inspections by the College of Inspectors at a Western Thessaloniki facility in the context of the implementation of an inspection plan. I have to tell you here that inspectors and special investigators are conducting a preliminary inquiry at the prosecution of the first instances in order to investigate the causes of dysosmia. We have also done audits based on the Board of Inspectors and in December 2018 and January 2019 for a week in Hellenic Petroleum and other operations in the region. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] At the same time, the relevant regional control body, as the region has competence for both air pollution measurements and for checks with the common tiers it determines and establishes, launched controls at the end of the autumn of 2018 and created a list of 10 targeted activities, which were the ones due to the production process and the type of pollutants that are potentially the source of the pollutants and are also combined with the content of citizens’ complaints. From the data we have obtained so far from the region, checks have been carried out in three of the ten activities and the results of the checks have not been delivered to us. Are they, according to the correspondence we have received because of your question, in a processing stage? It is true that we have been waiting for the results for some time now. Indeed, because I had been informed of the position of the principal in the Regional Council of Central Macedonia, I had contacted him and personally asked him to provide the results, the measurements and all that was in the sphere of communication or communications, but not in the sphere of scientific data, so that we could have specific information. I must say that at the same time, the tensions, the protests and unreliability on the part of the citizens were very strong and there were no results. We have been informed by the media of the press conference given by the principal in the district and the university on the mid-term report, which I must say we have asked for surrender, because it had not been delivered to us. Yesterday afternoon at the end of the day, almost ten days after your question, we asked for an interim report, because we obviously needed it, although it had been announced that the data had been sent to us. From there, therefore, it appears that seventy - six of the four hundred sampling and three of the ten activity checks have been made. Of the results we have - and I beg your pardon, Madam President, but it is very critical - we are told in writing that austerity cannot be attributed only to one activity. This document is 28-1-2019 from the periphery. The source of dysosmia varies, but there are indeed phenomena of dysosmia that are also found in a given activity, which is about the measurements of dysosmia within the ELPEs, but also related measurements of dysosmia in the Cordeli area. I must tell you, however, that we have other elements than those which have so far been exploited by correspondence with the region, which has to do with the launching and closure of large installations, that is, periods of frequent start-up and closure that go beyond the limits - if you like - of the contractual fixed operation of the installations and exceed the limits and the limit values, which we will also take on. Finally, I would like to say that we now have two documents which give us the summary and summary of the interim, precursor measurements. In order to close the level of the formal reference, beyond the measures we will take - and I can tell you in my second answer - we will immediately invite the region and the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki to a substantial working meeting to discuss the results, which from what they tell us will be ready at the end of May. We will also ask in writing, as soon as the receipt of the documents I mentioned to you this week, for the check to be completed on all ten activities. Because we need to see the problem fully, because the region itself informs us that there is a multiple source of dysosmia. We will also ask in writing for their proposals to amend the business policy authorisation. And finally, we will now have from January and the measurements of the Cordellio station to have a full, if you like, framework of measurements. However, we have already taken initiatives which, because I am not allowed to do so now, will allow me to tell you in my secondary speech and in concrete measures which the Ministry has taken on its own initiative to solve the problem and not just for the diagnosis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor, but soon. The Minister answered everything. What else can you ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u28	It is important that in relation to my previous question two years and four months ago, in October 2016, in your predecessor Mr. Tsironi, we did not count, but we only had one counter at the 2nd Cordeliou Municipal School, which did not count mercaptans, did not count as hydrogen sulphide. It is important that we now count, because the first important part to solve a problem is knowing what causes are. We're counting the pollutants. It's important. Is that enough? No, it is not enough why people, citizens who experience the issue daily, want concrete measures, get tired of wishing and exhortations, demand quality of life in their everyday lives for their families and children. In fact, the people of the region, and that is why I congratulate them, have created the collectiveity called 'Respiration is a right'. Like the mother, the daughter, the sister, the companion, the colleague is breathing for the position of the woman, the self-evident right to breathing, so breathing, oxygen, the environment in western Thessaloniki is an unequivocal right that the residents of the region do not enjoy. They note, among other things: ‘The patience and tolerance of residents are tested daily. The negative effects on health and long-term exposure to toxic pollutants are constantly increasing. The quality of life is downgraded, while no competent body has so far effectively arranged for safety issues arising from the proximity of industrial installations in accordance with the revised SEVESO III Treaty.’ That is what we represent. That's the ones I represent. And I want to submit eight specific events from the Internet where they have their team. I am not referring to names, I will only mention their initials for the purpose of protecting personal data. On March 5, he writes: "I woke up with a headache and a strong smell of gas and boar. This rot is locked inside the house, stuck everywhere. Another terrible morning at Cordelio. But now we know who cares about it." M.S.V. says: "Transformation in Cordelio 1: 20" in the morning, horrible smell of oil and gas, but don't worry, it's not carcinogenic or smell... take deep breaths, it's good for you." N.K. He says: "Today is breathtaking, it has of all the smells, oil, gas. Do you know what's bothering me the most? The indifference of the world, they pass by you and their children as if nothing were happening, while I was holding my nose, I couldn't breathe." N.K. He says: "Oight but ten in the morning I see the mother and mother children going to school, having intense gas stiffness that is not said, my soul hurt what cancer children breathe. A vulture with a National Resistance angle". H.M. says: "Morning - morning and the smell is incredible, but do not worry well according to the periphery. Mercy now, so do they underestimate our intelligence?' And I show the camera, because this smell in western Thessaloniki cannot reach the House Hall, photos published by them on this theme site that is adjacent to ELPE, EKO and all these facilities, so that both the Greeks and citizens can see the conditions and living conditions in European Greece 2019. I'm putting these in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm closing up with this. Minister, ELPEs are directly required to plan on a regular schedule for the relocation of the oil mud processing plant in a new area of the refinery away from the settlement of the Municipality of Evosmos - Cordeliou. That is what we will be judged by our actions. What we have done is important, now the problem is being recorded. And, of course, the enormous responsibilities which the region and self-government have are important. We are not here to tell our opinion, we are conveying the voice of the citizens of western Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Triantafylides, as I told you in the protology, I presented all the correspondence and data that the services sent as they had to send. But what really remains with us is what we do to change things. Obviously, we financed the analyses, the measurements, and we pressed in this direction and politically in agreement with the demand of citizens and bodies. However, although we do not yet have the final results of the checks, I can tell you some things now. Firstly, we already have correspondence to penalising all infringements of environmental legislation, because even if we find suspension technology and implement it, which I will say, there must first of all be the necessary fines and administrative sanctions for changing the environment of all businesses. Secondly, we called on the "ELELANDS" since 2016, because there was the debate to take steps from then on, although even now the results have not been unimportant. But, with my meeting with the president and CEO of the "ELLENIC FEEL" yesterday and before we received the interim report, which we received yesterday on our own request, we have already announced that by the end of April the project "Greek Air Fleet Recovery" is completed, so that there is no escape from the torches, a budget of 2,5 million euros. It has already been licensed and completed in a month, which means that it has started a long time ago. Secondly, the study that we have had in the Ministry for at least two months has been completed and the project ‘Promoting waste water treatment’ has been prepared for construction, with a budget of EUR 6.5 million for completion in the first half of 2020. Third, as regards the waste and treatment plants for oil sludge, a study has already been launched to ensure that there is no odour and gas outlets and will be completed by the end of April 2019, i.e. the study will have finished and no gas escape will be completed by the end of 2019 and additional equipment will be installed in connection with hydrocarbon and sulphide-binding systems in the capacity of suction systems to have greater impurity, closed systems in the tanks, floating covers, even in open tanks and use of new additional chemicals. In addition, the restoration of old olive groves will be completed, and this one will be in the first half of 2020. We have asked, in addition to the proposals already made by the "ELLENIC FEEDERIA" from this two-year preparation, for two projects which the people are also asking for, and I have heard that you are asking for them. So, firstly, we agreed to strengthen and concentrate the process of measuring pollutants in the fence of the "ELELENINS" to Cordelio, so that we can also be absolutely sure that air pollutants will be transported from the installation to Cordelio. The operation agreed. At the same time, we agreed and started from the day before yesterday the study on the relocation of the oil mud processing plant at the northwestern end of the "ELELANDS" to the most remote part of the settlement, precisely because that was a real request. We, of course, do not just stop at this. Since yesterday we have been working on a regulation so that the measurements of the Cordeliou station, which was reinforced by the equipment provided by the Green Fund, can be monitored online by the public and there is no question of unreliability. We will give the citizens the results, which we have already done in the Volos region, where we have called for a great business, which has been very intense in the debate with the citizens on environmental impacts, the gas pollutants online and the world sees them, the municipalities see them, and society sees them. At the same time, I must tell you that because there is a big issue in western Thessaloniki, but I think there is also in the region of Magnesia and in the area of Western Attica, on health and environmental issues, I have asked the National Centre for the Environment and Sustainable Development to launch a major research project, which we will obviously discuss with the Ministry of Health - the two relevant ministers have been informed - about linking health and environmental issues. It is something that, as a Parliament, we, as a government, must deposit as a property in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u31	We continue with the first with number 404/5-3-2019 timely question of the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Dimitrios Vettas to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject of “Procurement difficulty with the proficiency of the School of Kalymnos Two of the crew working on shellfish vessels”. Here, Mr. Vetta, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, thank you for responding to my question. In order for people and my fellow Members to understand, some dozens of my compatriots in Fthiotis Prefecture and hundreds of our compatriots throughout the country involved in shellfishing, that is, diving into the sea by 10 meters and fishing shells, have a very big problem. They have difficulty or inability to obtain the supervisor's degree. To obtain this degree, Minister, today's data should go to Kalymnos at the School of Kalymnos. What does that mean? It means that all these people have to go for a certain number of courses for forty working days in Kalymnos to obtain the supervisor’s degree. So we understand that their cut is extremely difficult, their work is extremely difficult. They're daycarers, they're not people with high incomes, and obviously, they can't give themselves the satisfaction and opportunity to go for for forty working days, leaving family and work, to get the supervisor's degree. What is happening right now because of this weakness? The port, as it owes and is entitled to do - and it is right to do - does regular checks and impose significant sanctions and major fines on all these people. What should be done? To be absolutely fair, by means of an amendment on 14 October 2018, we gave these people the opportunity - in fact it was an extension - to be regarded as a supervisor who holds the licence. And if it wasn't for one of them to hold the degree, be a diver, or in case of a diver's lack of a degree, be an assistant diver. The point is that by analysing both the geographical territory, namely the geographical characteristics of the country, and the inability of our compatriots to go to the Kalymnos for forty working days, and always bearing in mind that we must also protect their working rights, especially because it is a dangerous job, we must resolve a chronic problem, Minister, which has not been solved until now and which I have been following for a year and a half, under the office of Mr Kurubli. We must give a substantial solution so that people can get their degrees, do their job legally and be able to make their cuts quietly. That was my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u33	Thank you for the time too. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u34	My dear colleague, Mr Vetta, thank you for the opportunity to refer to the chronic problem - for it is chronic - facing the shellfish sector, with regard to the requirement of the specialty of the graduate of the Kalymnos School of Dymnos on their vessels. It is known that until 2016 the lack of such specificity was addressed by ministerial decisions, with the exceptional staffing of shellfish by licence holders of a diver or apprenticeship diver to be issued by the port authority. However - you mentioned it - in accordance with legislation, which came after a decision of the Council of State in April 2018, a supervisor is considered only the holder of a degree in Kalymnos Dymnos Dymnos School. In order to find an immediate solution, there has been legislation in Article 9 of Law 4575/2018, under which exceptionally, and for one year, the supervisor may be replaced by a holder, of course, of the successful students of the Kalymnos School, or a licensed diver or apprenticed diver. In this way, the issue has been settled so that the current fishing season can function properly. Furthermore, our Ministry, in cooperation with the fishing clubs, always proceeds to the final resolution of the issue by creating once - that is, 2019 - at local schools of supervisors as annexes to the Kalymnos School, where experienced divers will be trained either as graduates of the Kalymnos School with the specialty of the diver, or as holders of a diver or apprenticed diver, the port authority as observers. And they will be trained in order to obtain the necessary certification, for a certain period of time, not too long, so that after graduation and presentation of the relevant certificate of life, fire-fighting, in force - I am referring to the main course of education - they can obtain the doctorate's degree in Kalymnos School. Where are these schools going, these schools? A total of four areas have been proposed for the local training of inspectors. Initially, it's the place of Mytilini. And I'm talking about the port office, the port department of Kalloni, Thessaloniki in Mechanonia, Stylida, which is in your area and Elefsina. There are also other proposals which can deal with the whole issue. I say to you attributes - and I refer to the previous topic - that in these schools the designated instructor will be from the Naval General Staff, officer - the diver of the Navy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u35	Mr Vettas has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u36	Minister, thank you. I am pleased with your answer. We are satisfied with your answer. And it satisfys my compatriots shellfishers in Fthiotis Prefecture, who will no longer go to Kalymnos. There is no longer that problem. They'll be in their place. It suits me, too, because Stylis is my hometown, and that's where the Phythiotis prefecture has been mentioned. I would, of course, like to say that the Ministry has discussed with the local fishing associations and agreed on the possibility of providing the necessary equipment. Let us say, of course, that my compatriots and compatriots throughout the country will not be charged at costs, as this will be covered, as I understand it, by the capital of a sailor. And that is a very important element. And of course, by closing my position, I would also like to thank you personally, and in particular, the Deputy Minister, Mr Santorinio, and his colleagues, who have fought and worked too hard to achieve all this result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vetta. Does the Minister have anything to complement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u38	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much. I'll be announcing the topical questions that won't be discussed. The fourth question under number 407/5-3-2019 is the first-round question of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "To stop the installation of wind parks in the mountainous peaks of the Agraphs", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The second question under number 400/4-32019 of the first cycle of the Member of the Republic of Attica, Mr Athanasios Bourras, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Reopening of the General School of Magulas as an exam centre", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. It's because of the workload. The fifth question under number 395/1-3-2019 of the first cycle of the Thessaloniki Parliamentary I MEP Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The new ministerial decision to introduce students into the music departments of the country" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. It's because of the workload. The sixth question, under number 389/26-2-2019, of a second question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Purchasias, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Announcement of a position at the Democritus University of Thrace, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. It's because of the workload. The third, with number 394/27-2-2019, is the first question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "Appointment of a sectoral secretary of the Ministry of Migration Policy", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Migration Policy, Mr. Vitsa, due to unsuccessful commitments. The second question, under number 401/4-3-2019, on the second question of the second question of the Athens Prime Minister, Mr. Miltiades Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: 'Inadmissibility of the situation in the area of refugees - migrants in Samos', will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Vitsa, because of the unsuccessful obligations. The fourth under number 399/4-3-2019 topical question by Independent MEP II, Demetrios Kammenos to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the risk analysis report for 2019 of FRONTEX showing that the migration pressure remains high at the external borders of the European Union, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Vitsa, due to unforeseen commitments. The first under number 405/3-2019 topical question for the second cycle of MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Refund fees for large hydroelectric power stations", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. George Stathakis. It's because of the workload. The fifth question under number 388/26-2-2019 is a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Haritsis. It's because of the workload. This bill has already been passed. Finally, the sixth question by No. 279/15-1-2019 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Independence Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the transport equivalent", will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Nektarios Santoriniou, because a question of the same content of the same Member has been discussed again. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Development, the Ministers for Home Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Migration Policy, Rural Development and Food and Tourism, Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, and the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development and Finance submitted on 7-3-2019 a draft law on the harmonisation of Greek legislation by Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of know-how and business information not disclosed (commercial secrecy) against the illegal acquisition, use and disclosure of Greek legislation (OJ L 157, 15.6.2016). Measures to accelerate the work of the Ministry of Economy and Development and other provisions.’ It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-08-S1-commons.u40	With the consent of the House at 12.30 p.m. the sitting is closed next Thursday 14 March 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the special agenda to be distributed to you.
