ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] You will allow me to start by saying a few words on behalf of the Bureau of Parliament on the Memorial Day of the Greek Jewish Witnesses and Heroes of the Holocaust of 27 January in Parliament. The Greek Parliament of Parliament honors the memory of the Greek Jewish witnesses and Holocaust heroes who were murdered in the Nazi concentration camps. In addition to the six million Jews in Europe, thousands of resistance fighters were killed, including Greek and Greek women, as well as million Roma, two hundred fifty thousand natural or mentally disabled and nine thousand homosexuals. Among the six million Jews in Europe who were victims of Nazi atrocity, sixty - seven thousand - one were Greek fellow citizens, men, women, children and the elderly. In the heart of Europe, the gradual implementation of discrimination, displacement and extermination of the Jews was acted. Greek history is part of this European and global history. The Jewish communities in Thessaloniki and Yannina were almost completely destroyed in our country. All Jews were rescued in Zakynthos, many in Katerini, Volos and Athens. Some have fled, others have ensembled with the rebels, some have been hidden, thanks to the solidarity and support of our fellow citizens, but others have also been betrayed by them. From persecution and death, neither were those who had been members of the Greek Parliament in the constituency of Thessaloniki. Members of the Greek Parliament who lost their lives were Alaluf Daniel, Ventura Zack, Kazes Michel, Gateni Leon, Bensanzi Mindes, Siakki Isaac, Sulam David and Chenio Albertos. These MPs found death in the same year in 1943, and one of them in 1942. They were professionals, traders, journalists, insurers, printers, from all the social activities of the country back then. They were our colleagues who are among the Holocaust victims. The memory of all of this is today, together with many other countries in the world, members of the United Nations, who established in November 2005 by Resolution 60/7 today, namely 27 January, as the International Holocaust Victims Memorial Day. On January 27, 1945, the allied forces, and in this case the Red Army invaded the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp, confronting the horror and releasing the incarcerated prisoners. Ladies and gentlemen, study and contact with Holocaust history is our duty and duty, not only towards the self-evident return to the millions of victims, but also to the need to train today and future generations, especially now, today, when Nazi ideas seem to find new followers. Their memory is eternity! Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Strengthening of the Higher Council for Personnel Selection (SEP), strengthening and upgrading of Public Administration and other provisions’. I propose that the draft law should be debated at a meeting, which is uniform at the outset, of articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. Before the rapporteurs, the Minister wants to take the floor to develop legislative improvements. Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u3	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, following on from the very constructive debate that we had in the Committee on Parliament last week, I would like to read to you - and I will then - three legislative improvements. The first is in relation to the transitional provision that we had already adopted in Parliament, according to which the first implementation will take place in November 2019 for annual recruitment planning for 2020. Accordingly, with regard to the two-year notices, in order to avoid any doubt and shadow, because in any case one issue is related to one another, the existing provision is replaced and a new provision is added, which I read as follows: ‘The annual recruitment planning plan referred to in Article 4 for 2020, as well as requests submitted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 6’ - are the two-year notices - ‘for the years 2020 and 2021, are approved’. So that's what this is about. The second legislative improvement we are proposing concerns the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 of Article 16 of Law No.4369/2016, which is replaced by paragraph 2 of Article 43 of the draft law we are discussing and which concerns the evaluation, for which we set the duration and deadline in four months. ‘Specially for the evaluation period of the year 2018, the evaluation shall be carried out from 1 March to 30 June 2019.’. This is done at the request of the services of our Ministry. In other words, it is about the evaluation that starts now in the first quarter of the year. Because there is a significant upgrade of the electronic platform, on electronic evaluation, and in order for it to take place on the basis of the improved, upgraded platform, we need this transitional provision of one additional month. Finally, there is a third legislative improvement, which takes into account the report on the bill by the Scientific Service of Parliament. Although we did not in any way intend to include in this draft law the administrative part of the House, respecting its autonomy - in any case Parliament is excluded from the Act of Ministerial Council - but because we have also been asked for full clarity to formulate for the multiannual programming of recruitments: "In any case, the Greek Parliament is not included in the previous subparagraph". We simply confirm that, in order to comply with the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Minister. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Simeon Ballis, has the floor for 15 minutes. As soon as Mr Ballis begins, the list of speakers opens. Those of us who want to be registered should have this in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to give two words the content of today's bill, we would say that it includes arrangements, firstly, to strengthen and strengthen the functioning of the AACC so that it does not end up endless months until the procedures for recruitment and appointment competitions are completed. Secondly, it includes arrangements for the completion of institutional changes for the reconstruction in the public sector, supplementing the monitoring mechanism for these changes, while introducing arrangements for changes in the Staff Code that restore equality and equality between employees, but also with a strong social profile for our special social categories of fellow citizens and for disabled people. That's only two words, if we wanted to give it this way, today's bill. Does anyone disagree with us that today the procedures of the AACC in many cases are hopelessly slow, that they are over months, many times, until the successful tables are finalised in competitions or in recruitment notices? Does anyone agree that the public needs to be modernised, adapted to the current data, to operate on other terms, in terms of democracy and efficiency for the benefit of the public itself, but also for the benefit of the citizens, a function of equality for their human resources and justice for the citizens? What does the Opposition say about this bill? He agrees with many of his points. For his basic philosophy, what's he talking about? He asks: Why are you bringing it now, a few months before the elections? Why didn't you bring it earlier? We respond: Public pathogens are known, as they are easily perceived by all of us and the shortcomings that exist after so many years of weakening and deforestation and in responsibilities and personnel. Now, however, there is the possibility of planning and planning the gaps that exist and the gaps that will be created in time. Because now there is the possibility of recruiting on a ratio of 1 in 1: One leaving, one hired. An intake for every position that will be empty. The opposition also asks: Why do you recommend new bodies such as the Special Secretariat, such as the Public Administration Observatory? Why do you move on to secondment of officials to the ADP and do not make permanent recruitments? And why, in the end, don't you let the whole thing see the next government? We respond to this: The system of monitoring the reform in public administration is central to the creation of a different state in the functioning of an administration, an administration geared to assisting and developing the country. Today's regulations are the votes of an overall, different design, our own planning, our own perception of the role of the state and the public. The secondments to the AACC, of a temporary nature, of one year duration, are made to speed up its work and prepare the recruitments made by the AACC for its own independent authority. I appreciate - and let us not laugh at this - that what opposition really asks is: What do you want now and what are you going to do with the reconstruction of a public administration and the improvement of its services? I also believe that the real question is what we want the strong public. We want it. We want it because we want a public that is linked to development planning, a public that will be relieved of the targeting that has been accepted in previous years, either from the neoliberal practices that have been followed and imposed or from the budgetary cuts. Because we want a public that is not separate from society. We want a public, we want a state, neither big nor small. It is necessary, as much as it takes to function properly and effectively for both the public state, its organisation and its citizens, organised and operational. But let us see, even briefly, what today's bill provides for, according to its structure and capital. In the first part - at least as I am presenting it - it is the strengthening of the AACC and the facilitation of the work of the AACC. To this end, provision is made for the secondment of permanent staff or IASC staff to accelerate control and results procedures. The procedures for the verification of supporting documents shall be simplified and the markings made at the hearing by the President of the AACC. This saves a significant amount of time, but also enables the AACC to make two-year competitions. It is also regulated that the decisions of its plenary sessions are mandatory for all their members and work issues, as well as pay issues, for members and workers in the ADP. Our intention is to strengthen acceptance by the IASC society as an institutional guarantor of the principles of transparency, dignity and objectivity in all the procedures that relate to the administration of the public sector, but also to the policies of administrative restructuring. A second part is the integration of institutional changes in the public sector with less bureaucracy, strengthening human resources management, strengthening the mechanisms for monitoring reforms, tackling corruption, but also with a new, modern, unified system of planning and recruitment procedures, always compatible with the country's budgetary objectives. In this context, and under this draft law, the following shall be adopted: First, a system of multi-annual and annual strategic recruitment planning for regular and seasonal staff. The tables to be sent by each body to the Ministry will include assessments of departures of personnel, all existing and estimated positions, strategic priorities of the organisation, estimated needs of personnel by category and industry, and how to cover them. These four-year plans shall be drawn up at the Ministry, which shall draw up the four-year recruitment plan. This facilitates overall planning, and is functionally linked to recent changes in the human resources management system, such as the single mobility system, position profiles, digital organograms. At the same time, it relieves the public administration of unnecessary bureaucratic burdens. The annual recruitment programmes, which are exported from multi-annual programming, allow operators to meet their needs more quickly. A second part is the implementation of recruitments by the AACC, where major time delays occur. The annual programming shall be sent to the AACC. The AACC can thus also integrate similar requests and make a single notice of similar positions by industry or specialisation. By saving and time and human resources from the AACC, more global competitions are possible each year. The third part of this facility is the simplification of the procedure for lodging supporting documents. Documents shall not be submitted together with the application for participation of the person concerned for priority recruitment. This does not bring together a huge volume of supporting documents from thousands of interested candidates, who are often making papers for fewer posts. In a specific, a few days' time, supporting documents will be provided by those who correspond to the total number of posts to be covered, plus 100%. This correction was made by the Minister during the hearing of the bodies. If the information declared in the application is not proven, the applicant shall be removed from the classification table. A significant third chapter of the bill is the planning and monitoring of administrative reconstruction. The aim of these arrangements is to effectively organise and operate structures and procedures for final planning, monitoring and implementing an integrated strategy for administrative reconstruction. Thus, firstly, the Ministry of Advisory Council on Administrative Reconstruction is set up with responsibility for expressing opinions and recommendations on strategic priorities. Secondly, a Special Secretariat is set up and supports administrative reconstruction actions at the Ministry. It is served by employees, by transfers and secondments. Thirdly, the Public Administration Observatory is set up. This is a mechanism for overall monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of policies implemented. This is also managed by employees with transfers and secondments. It is an important mechanism, this Public Administration Observatory, a permanent body, which will see what is going well, what is going wrong and must be corrected. At the same time, the technical support service for public administration bodies is also being organised as a fourth part. In the fourth part of this bill, there are arrangements for the Staff Code in the mobility system. First, requests sent by entities to cover secondment or transfer positions should indicate the total organic positions for each industry and the total number of vacancies in each industry and in each specificity. Secondly, the possibility of posting or transfer for health reasons relating either to the employee himself or to members of his family in order to harmonize working life. Thirdly, the right to three months of parental leave is extended in addition to natural mother and foster father, but also to foster parents, as well as to parents who have a child under the procedure of parental leave. We implement the laws and obligations we have to respect equality and equality. Fourthly, the days of training leave for officials are increased from ten to fourteen, which is already the case for officials with regard to private law. Fifthly, for post-training and training public workers have the same rights as public-law workers. Sixth, the age limit for postgraduate education is abolished. Seventh, the Certificate of Administrative Responsibility is established for civil servants and Otto I officials who are class I with a change in the code. Eighth, in the disciplinary procedure, the staff member conducting the SAD must have grade A instead of grade C as currently foreseen, and a period of three months for the decision or not for the exercise of disciplinary proceedings is entered. In the fifth and most important areas of the bill, there are regulations of a strong social nature, rules of a social nature. The provisions of the bill strengthen the social character of the public and clarify in favour issues of the recruitment of disabled persons or of special social categories. First of all, the definitions of the third parent and the third child are specified and adapted to the current needs and conditions of the third party family as compared with those laid down in Law 2190/1994 on recruitment of protected persons in the public sector. In this way, the planned age limits are increasing to cover the existing educational and social needs from twenty-five years to twenty-five years and from twenty-five years to thirty years in the case of children studying, regardless of the age of the other children, their brothers and sisters. Secondly, it is foreseen that persons with a disability rate of at least 50%, who hold a certificate of adequacy of the Greek sign language, are appointed or recruited without proof of foreign language knowledge, unless this is required as a necessary standard qualification for the position requested by the institution concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill - as I said at the outset - is an overall plan that we have for the reform of the administration and the functioning of the state of next day - faces structural problems in the functioning of the public administration and introduces regulations that promote efficiency and transparency by correcting points such as dealing with bureaucracy and strengthening the management of human resources, while still responding to the demand from society for a system of recruitment that will not forget when it will make decisions, which will operate in terms of equality and dignity and strengthen the credibility of the APRC and its role as an institutional guarantor of a democratic recruitment system. Our aim is to create a public productive, efficient and fair. Our aim is a strong state, which will leave behind the customer relations of the past, underground transactions, an effective state, not a state of affairs of various strong interests, a public and a state that operates in a different logic. In this respect, as the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, said, presenting our overall proposal for the State 2020, only we can and will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. The title of this bill is indeed a stimulus again for various comments. I read: ‘Strengthening of the Higher Personnel Selection Council (PSC), strengthening and upgrading of public administration and other provisions’. Madam Minister, we are at the end of the government service in a few months. There's been a four-year period in public administration. I think that there could be nothing in these words about upgrading and strengthening, in particular, the AACC. I shall refer first to this draft law, so that I do not blame your own personal intervention in the committee debate, but everything in the public administration has a follow-up and everything needs to be commented on and seen from me in an overall picture. There is an honest effort on the part of the Ministry, even toward the end of the government's term of office for the planning of recruitments, either annually or multiannually. This is a general principle of programming that the New Democracy has manifested - perhaps at any rate at any rate - and which is largely covered by the PYS 33/2006, i.e. the Act of the Ministerial Council which is necessary by the relevant Ministerial Committee, but which is now being legislated. But I want to make two comments on this. Madam Minister, no legislation can work effectively unless this procedure is actually shielded on the basis of the real intentions of all civil servants. At the end of each year, we should have a recruitment plan for next year based on the needs - the prioritisation and hierarchy of these - and of course on the basis of the financial capacity available. What, though, prevents that? Article 4(3) prevents this, which talks about exceptions. This word ‘exemption’, the word ‘with a derogation’ by which that government mainly legislates, ‘with the exception of all general and specific provisions’, is a parameter which can ultimately degrade all the good intentions that may exist for the planning of recruitments. Will you tell me: 'Exemptions should not exist from a programming'? There are extraordinary, unpredictable events that arise and may need an emergency staff somewhere, in a theory or in anything else. Clearly, and this should be allowed and allowed by the existing provisions. But when there is a systematic derogation from the general principles and we have exemptions from the 33/2006 PSF over the years, there is no assurance that there is a real intention of operating this whole big recruitment planning plan, because you do not shield it. Not to mention vaguely, I have fifteen in front of me - I have found very easily fifteen and they are certainly more - such legislative interventions made by the current government in this House with exceptions from the Act of the Ministerial Council. It is the Ministerial Committee that would define and approve recruitment to the various ministries. Many times, then, did not have to do this, and so this House legislated on a proposal from you. Do you know what circumstances? To read a couple of - three to understand the 'extreme' and the 'unpredictable'. ‘For the implementation of development programmes financed from own resources or private entities’, L.4452/2017, Article 21. It's an exception. Furthermore, Article 8: ‘In order to meet the needs of cleanliness and storage of the ministries supervised by them and independent authorities with the recruitment of staff of 18 months’. To read Law 4483/2017, Article 38: "To recruit journalists in districts". These are three indicative cases. I am tabling the Minutes on the other twelve - a total of 15 - which, very quickly, I was able to find, with exceptions from the programming of recruitments, as was the case with the Ministerial Committee set up in the 33/2006 PSF. [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If, therefore, we do not shield this programming and this provision only in absolute unforeseen and exceptional needs and only to temporary staff - not to permanent, as you anticipate - then I think we are coming here to support a report of ideas. In this report of ideas, therefore, to be fair, because in my remarks on the annual and two-year programming you accepted - as accepted, I imagine, the committees and the House will also accept - that the possibility of programming for 2020 and 2021 must have it, as the next government, accepted the final adoption on the second quarter of November 2019, with this observation and with the comments I make on the difficulty of this whole project, we will be voting in favour of these two annual and two-year plans for recruitment. For multiannual programming, it is mentioned very vaguely, it is not clearly formulated and I think it cannot function as it says. In any case, we hope the government in the next period - but unfortunately there is not, as I have said, this credibility - to be able to operate in and in the spirit, not just in the letter of the law, as you put it, by using whatever exceptions. The bill also refers to another large part of it that has to do with the new Special Secretariat, which you set up in the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, the ninety-second. It is the ninety-second secretariat, ladies and gentlemen, and I have to make a comparison with the previous government period when it was sixty or sixty-two secretaries. We have a 48% increase in the secretaries. One big issue is not just how much this burdens the budget and whether it is charged with it. It is what happens with the overlapping of responsibilities that we are seeing in general and it is inevitable to happen when so many secretaries are created on related items, when there is a staffing that should be given a role and we do not know in the end whether a substantial role is actually given, or whether a position is simply created to settle someone who is specifically qualified and we must have him in a good position and be settled for the next period. So, on the question of every new secretariat, which is not entirely justified, it is not just a matter of its functioning, and it really is not clear that it helps better functioning of the public administration. In some individual articles, Minister, as it is for the National Print Office, we are positive except for a specific observation - and other comments were made by the Scientific Service of the House - in which we have now received knowledge of a question of unconstitutionality in relation to registration, publication of acts. I think it should be clarified that we need to talk about publication rather than registration. We are also positive in some provisions that have a social character. Because, as I said on the introduction, all the public administration is a constant course of legislation and regulations, many of which you are even trying to amend with this bill today, I am obliged - and because it is a day that has happened and something which must not in my mind go unnoticed - to say this: Minister, the two ministers who before you have carried out duties in the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, and in particular the first Minister, Mr Vernardakis, brought two emblematics, as he said, drafts. One was L.4369/2016, as was the case, which involved the register of civil servants and administrative and sectoral secretaries, and the other was L.4440/2016 on public mobility. We have reported on numerous occasions the photographic notices of the administrative and sectoral secretaries. We have obliged the previous Minister to withdraw, cancel twenty-two of sixty-nine notices and reopen them. We said that they were photographic, as it was done: each ministry, every minister, every secretary-general, in the statement of the post of director-in-Office, photographed himself. They wouldn't listen to us. They thought what we denounce was impatient. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the three tables of the first three administrative and sectoral secretaries have been drawn. Look, now, what happened. In the first notice, which is for the Special Sectoral Secretary of the Board of Auditors of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, thirty-five people were nominated and two were chosen to go to the Minister and choose the next secretary. And there's a coincidence. One of the two is the servant. We're getting past it. The results for the post of the Sectoral Secretary for Migration Policy were then published. Forty-eight people were nominated, two selected by the AACC committee to go to the minister and choose the one who will understand the position and - what evil coincidence? - again, one of them is the servant. And last night - another evil coincidence - for the position of the Sectoral Energy and Raw Materials Secretary for forty-six people were nominated. This is where three were chosen. Three is the upper one. In other words, we couldn't even get to the number of three, it was two. Of course, all of these three are the servants. In the three notices from the sixty-nine which have come out, the three in which they have been selected and from which the Minister will choose the one to be the next Secretary-General is already serving. Let me note that the already servants are the ones who did the notice. The call didn't do the AAP. It was done by every ministry, by every secretary-general, and now each secretary-general enjoys his picture. That's not a call. It's a photo exhibition! I put forward the results of the three Practical Calls, known as the three Secretaries who serve, and I say that this is all a glimpse of the public administration process. [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It was necessary for a single authority, the AACC, to be the one to draw up the notices, with the characteristics and criteria that we must not see in one place here, which concerns Mr Klapa, as a minimum eight years of experience in a position of high responsibility. There's nowhere else. You must have eight years of experience in the high-responsibility position, just what Mr. Clapas has. I think that this does not honor anyone, and I think we are also confirmed in a celebratory way, to what we have denounced. At least, don't make notices, don't work the ADP, let it work in everything else that has to do and get the names straight away. Why - let us say another thing, because I have to complete it here - the ADP, which you supposedly strengthen it today, the ASP which, according to the bill, is the one that was forced on the request of Ministers to send copies of the files of these administrative and sectoral secretaries to the ministers. Since when should the ministers have in their offices the copies of the dossiers of the candidates for the post of secretaries? Where did you see it to n. 4369? Where did you see this being a moral principle and an ethical principle? There has been a press report which goes on and then we will see who really wants to strengthen the ADP and who wants to work on it. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, whatever good intentions could be assessed at another level and at another level, if there were not a certain course of all these years, really great interventions to the public administration in order to control it and work it out. I think that this bill, as I mentioned it, has little to offer, unfortunately, because it retains the exceptions that can be found and because the SYRIZA Government in the exceptions and in the derogations, in fact, has exceeded any other government. I think that the extensions of contracts or the exceptional simulations we have seen in this Parliament have never been made. So at least legislate what you last have been able to place, because this is your pursuit, but show some modesty towards those who listen to us and see and understand what is happening. In any case, fortunately, what was happening in this case. We hope that only a few things are left to see the Greek people. Because in the end, for all that has happened, one is entitled to reward or disapprove, and this is the Greek people waiting for you in the corner. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Georgioda. The Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Giannakides, has the floor to develop an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. This is the amendment with a general number of 1932 and a special number of 25. This amendment, in substance, abolishes the provision that the operations of the NRP under the Sectoral Operational Programmes should be included in a collective decision per operational programme from 1 to 2019. The provision is abolished as the update of the Public Investment Payments and Debt Monitoring System has been successfully completed and the new Information System of the Public Investment Programme has been activated. These two important developments now ensure the simplification and acceleration of the payment procedures of the NSRP projects through the EIP, and so the repealed provision no longer needs to be applied, thereby avoiding an unnecessary administrative burden that such application would cause to the competent services of all ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Minister. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to pay tribute to the victims of the Holocaust from the Nazi neck. The day was celebrated without particularly referring to it, and I think it is my duty not to confine myself to the presidencies mentioned above, but also to stress the honour which the victims of the Nazi mule, the Holocaust, have claimed. Be alive in our memory, not to be repeated, not to be allowed to incite the egg that is moving and suffering throughout Europe and to continue at a democratic pace and democratic pace. Of course, it is not only the reference made to Parliament's plenary that must also be seen from explicit condemnation. And we believe that at least the democratic arc of Greek political life, the Greek Parliament, has no objection to such actions and actions. I shall, of course, go to the second point, which is currently timely, that is to say, in the bill itself. It bears the title ‘Strengthening of the Higher Personnel Selection Board (PSC), strengthening and upgrading of the Public Administration and other provisions’. Let us see, then, what is the purpose of a bill in general - before we speak in particular - regarding public administration. I have to say this, that the upgrading of public administration is always a matter for our home country. It's a daily request. Because legislation and today's proposal attempt to tackle or create some problems that will arise. However, what is the question of coexistence of effective services for the citizen, the existence of efficiency by public administration - why should we not forget that public administration must contribute to GDP and not just be job coverage and not just function - is dealt with in this bill? We're of the opinion that it's not. In particular, there may be good intentions in the bill, but in the same bill there are provisions which cannot agree to us. And not to let the bucket unfold, I will say that we are obliged at the outset to say 'no' to this bill, for the reason that it can support in the second part the AACC, an institution, an independent authority worth protecting and respecting, but it does not solve its problems. The president of the AACC came to the committee and supported some provisions of the draft law. This does not, however, mean that the AACC is upgraded and will work effectively for its purpose. We also combine it with a second issue, which concerns us. Recruitment planning for permanent and seasonal staff concerns the first part of the bill. Is there a need for planning? Clearly there is. Is there a need to rationalise recruitment? Clearly there is. But a question arises: This strategic improvisation, which is provided for in the bill, can function? Is every organisational process already completed? Are the digital contours complete throughout the public administration, so that we can have an image of the needs that are required each time? I have to say something. In attending the majority rapporteur and the rapporteur of the Civilian Opposition, I have come to a conclusion. The conclusion is who's going to hire after all. It is not the conclusion of what needs are. It's when they're going to be from what government. So we think that, with such thoughts and logic as well as good intentions, this part of the bill cannot be voted on for the reason I have already said. Firstly, we think that the organograms have not been fully completed. But remind me of something I have said to my dear colleagues and to the committee. As of 2017, Presidential Decrees of Ministries have been published on both the responsibilities and the number of staff needs. And suddenly, in every bill that brings up an expedited ministry, changes are made by law to agencies and changes the number of seats, because it was the Minister who was the head of the ministry at this time. No, in order to be able to talk about recruitment planning and, in particular, over time, we have to end all this. And how should they end? If you want, I'm also making a rough thought right now on the occasion of my speech. There should be the planning of the organograms and should be done at a wider level, not only by committees operating within a ministry. It's got to be wider. I won't talk about an independent authority. I am not mature at this moment in the direction, nor do I wish to draw attention to any arguments which I may be able to support in the future. But my thought leads me to another design of ministries' organizations, so that we can get to the point of talking about planning medium- and long-term recruitments. Of course, I do not want to say much about the SAAP. It is an institution that started in 1992. You know that the relentless Peponnes insisted on enforcing it. Consecrated, operated by steps forward, with steps back. No one's gonna say anything wrong. Therefore, whatever provisions under the title, even the falsification, if you wish, are talking about strengthening the AACC, strengthening the independence of the AACC - not only to have the title of the independent authority, but also to be truly independent and detached from public administration - we support them. But within the provisions we have also seen something which is arousing us and possibly could create upheavals in the future. May I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the EUR 175 benefit to our legal citizens?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u12	One hundred and seventy-six.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u13	A hundred and seventy-six? I wasn't sure of the amount. Correct me. How much trouble did he put public administration, economy and courts? So we see here in the provisions of Article 12 ‘excessive work of CSCE officials and secretarial and administrative and technical support staff’. They might look good, so people can work. The point is: if we are talking about overtime in public administration, so that we do not violate the principle of equality - that is why I referred to the 176 allowance, Minister, we should not put a limit on overtime. In any case, we can also open up pressures on the ministers on the part of the workers' representatives. And if it is done today at the ASAP, tomorrow why it is not to another beginning and the day after tomorrow not to be done in a ministry and, indirectly, we are leading to two speeds of pay. Because where overtime is unrestricted, it leads to pay for two speeds which cannot be controlled. Therefore, 'yes' to the provisions on PPAs with the philosophy we have said, as an independent authority for aid, but we are not convinced that the bill solves them, but in any case we cannot ignore an attempt. Attention, however, on the issue of overtime as it stands at the moment, does not open up - and that is where we shall be looking after, Minister - the illusion of Halos. Of course, from there on, I have also spoken to the committee, and I have said a lot, and I have said that we cannot support provisions for special secretariats in support of administrative reconstruction actions, all these, observers, regardless of whether they work and are already reformed or not, because we believe that they are incubating public administration. Finally, they swell it because they overlaps with each other, because the ministries too have to remember that they have not yet succeeded in being successful. There are so many executive responsibilities, the determination of the Ministries for which the Change Movement has already done with the theme "What are the limits of the central government, the central government and what is the constitutional principle of decentralisation". This has a long way to go and we have not yet reached a desired level of decentralisation, not of course with the law on the electoral system in self-government, which is being debated too much and we see that it now creates another picture, but we have not yet reached a desirable but not a minimum distinction of responsibilities of central government, ministries, only staff and local government. We're behind. There are therefore our reservations, there is our 'no'. Of course, as far as sectoral secretariats are concerned, and so forth. We have commented on it, we have said it and it is something that we feel is not useful. I personally have said that in every ministry we have a secretary-general. Good to have. Of course, it is a great number of ministries and we usually have one or two substitutes for ministers to cover some ambitions, to satisfy them. We also have undersecretaries, we have general secretaries, we have experts, we have sectoral ones too. Tell me, who's going to draw a conclusion on responsibilities? Who will perform the work of all those who - let me have a personal experience I have from the public administration - compete with each other eventually within the same circle of competence? Therefore, on sectoral secretaries, etc. We are saying 'no'. We question the correctness of the provisions on the selection of heads. We agree with everything relating to a relief measure for employees and their families, such as for third-country families, such as the increase in parental leave days. There can be no doubt about this because the state, if you will, also pay back the offer of these people, and it cannot return to them theoretically alone, must prove return by means of actions, but also strengthen them, so that they can create families, because, under the current circumstances, we see many people avoid creating an economic crisis, because they feel an uncertainty about the future. For the National Print Office, of course, I don't have much to say. I have said my opinion that the National Printing Office in the Digital era may not even need the printed form. I only accept it for legal certainty, not to hack the electronic version.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u14	It is called 'coding'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u15	Yes, not to be hacked, to have the paper, to be able to prove what's not the case. There are therefore no serious objections. Of course, I have said that we cannot see provisions relating to administrative competence and specific programmes when they are mobilised. We want the upgrading of public administration, no one can say that it is not desirable, but that the upgrading of public administration does not give molecules against others for the reason that it escapes its purpose. To train, to have programs, to develop, but not to have molecules, because it ends up canceling the measure. When we give molecules, we give them to everyone? That's where we're gonna end up or everyone's gonna try to upgrade. But you know what's gonna happen then? The level of the upgrade will fall. Leave the molecules out. We have also seen a series of amendments - because I see that time is ending - and those which, of course, extend to forest maps. We will say 'yes'. There has been a lot of talk about the hydronomists, and finally what are the hydronomists, I have not understood even what their responsibilities are. We will say 'yes', because these people must be taken care of. But we note our commitment that the Scientific Service of the Parliament may be called into question in terms of implementation or not of constitutional provisions. I wish - because you say, Mr President, that we are being watched - that the provision should function so that it can be restored after so many years. There's no doubt about it. But let us look for a more secure solution for these people, because the vote put forward by the Scientific Agency is being released and heard. I would like to conclude by saying that public administration remains a matter, such as upgrading, its development, but also speeding up the functioning of the public administration. This bill, despite the fact that we also discussed the notices of the AACC and all of this, did not convince us that it would speed up administrative work. And what is dear to me, in order to close my position in plenary, is two things: speeding up the functioning of the public administration, which involves its weakness and the need to speed up justice. We have not resolved these issues. They remain. To conclude, I would remind the Minister, as I have said in committee, that we have not seen in recent years and that we have not seen the need for new legislative initiatives. We have a little record of the employees. We have not, however, seen - and I repeat what I said - how the organograms are done, how the institutions are done and with the intervention of ministers. We have not yet seen the real needs that the public administration must meet on the basis of a number of qualifications in Greece. Let us hope that this happens someday, that it will be done, because I insist on and I am tiring, but public administration is not an end in itself, that it serves the citizens and that it contributes to national incomes. I think there was enough of what I said in relation to the issues that have been raised today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Your Honor. The House is honored by various anniversaries and well done. We condemn the violence from wherever it comes, but the day after tomorrow it is an anniversary of the collapse of a Greek helicopter from Turks. The souls of Yalopsus, Karathanassis, Vlahaku have not yet been vindicated twenty-three years after, for you are talking about damages, damages, etc., while those who examined them speak of clean collapse. Of course, in the Greek Parliament, we have never kept a minute's silence, and in no case would I ask now, twenty-three years later, and especially from you. We every year, even that day, January 31, 1996, a handful of nationalists, led by our Chief, Nikos Michaeliakos, we were there. And on Saturday, we will be back on the road again, but not at the known point, because at the well-known point every year, in recent years, you have put your own children's toys, so that they can be allegedly counter-concentration. Concentration on what? On a national anniversary that should normally be and will be on Golden Dawn government. We're going to another topic, across Kammenos and Kotzia. Tsipras understands that he is the Prime Minister of the Greeks and should explain what is said. Kotzias and Kammenos are not two random. One was Minister of Foreign Affairs and the other Minister of National Defence. And you may not be interested and hurting neither one or the other, but for us these two are the main pillars of a state strategy: defence and foreign policy. And we have the two tops - within thousands of introductory, top because he was in charge - ministers to blame each other with very heavy accusations. One was telling the other that he was a national liar. The other was blaming him for a thief. The other guy says SYRIZA's done a yaphen. This category is close to reality. But the Prime Minister must deal with all this. Again, that's not what two people call a café. They're called Ministers. And Tsipras does what he doesn't hear. He doesn't take a stand on his two ministers. We've heard other things. By chance, I'm a fourth rapporteur. They were preceded in order: SYRIZA, Xinogiannakopoulos, PASOK, then New Democracy and again SYRIZA, the three parties that have in their governance destroyed their homeland and the public sector, to come a little bit in the bill. We have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur say 'Only we can build the public'. And the rest of the three, about in the same style, moved. Again, the three who have ruled forty-four years and have brought our country into this situation believe - and they also say to the Greek people - that they will build the Greek public. Golden Dawn believes in a publicity which will of course be a pragmatic, flexible one. The positions they need will be covered. There will not be thousands of non-existent posts, just to serve our party audience, that is, what SYRIZA is doing today, and in the past years, I am ironically saying it - their predecessors have done so. We have a S.A.P. type. I wish S.H.I.E.L.D. could work as well. You are talking here about strategic planning for multi-annual, annual and strategic programming, etc. This is all very well in words. We don't trust you, though. We don't trust you to hire the last concierge, because we know it's gonna be your piece of dog. Forty-four years this has proved. Hospitals are empty. Schools are empty. The courts are empty. All the public sector is currently suffering from the measure that the troika has allegedly imposed on us, the institutions - say what you want, anyway, you are changing the titles - with redundancies and recruitment. And yet, if there were not those who were made redundant, we still have no confidence in you that you would hire them in the right places. We cannot trust a government, which employs tens of thousands of people in hot spots, builds committees, non-governmental organisations, all these things, which are, of course, against the Greek citizen clearly, what you forget and you feed him with EUR 300, 400, just to vote for you again. And some of them might do it again. So these people expect to work. The thousands of Greeks expect to work. They don't want to live on allowances. Open the factories. Open up the industries. You should pay the agricultural sector. These are what the Greeks want, not to give them allowances and to hire "your own children" in places that are made with the sole purpose of serving your party audience, as I said before in hot spots. The Greeks want to go out into production and work with a national strategic objective, i.e. restore production to a primary, secondary level and be able to live their families decently. So all these committees and the committees, we have no point in commenting on them. A bill brings after Macedonia's sellout, which says "Strengthening the High Council for Personnel Selection", the well-known ASEP. What does it mean to strengthen? They are amendments and articles which do not serve absolutely anything, and that is why I will not go into the essence of this bill. I will say, however, that our permanent position is a sound, healthy dome, which will help, serve the Greek citizen in all his activities, in his work, in his education, in his health, in his protection, of course, through the Ministry of Defense, whatever it is about to do with the Greeks, I repeat, which we put to the top and only priority, with the state. However, because you are neither going to achieve this nor do you have such a purpose, we are therefore voting against the bill in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Katsotis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction entitled “Strengthening the IAS, strengthening and upgrading the Public Administration and other provisions” in our view is part of the same national strategy for administrative reform adopted by previous governments with Minister for Administrative Reform Mr.Mitsotakis in 2014. SYRIZA - ANEL Government left the Operational Programme "Reforming the Public Sector 2014-2020" in its objectives, axes and priorities. The draft law provides for a technological redeployment process for the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and the AACC. It is part of the context of the development of the small state of staff sought by the Government at this stage. It is a reform that leads to an absolute control of the planning of permanent jobs in the public sector on the basis of the financial constraints involved. In this direction, the role of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction is strengthened, becoming more efficient, coordinating, planning, organising, implementing, directing, controlling and intervening in all the structures of the public administration, so that anti-population policy can be implemented outright and no matter what colouring political staff, which urban government will be its managers. The first issue is to shield the continuity of the state, to continue the operation of the state mechanism, regardless of changes in the government, on the basis of the planning of the bourgeoisie and its own priorities. With the strategic planning of recruitment you maintain the hope that you will proceed to service, at the same time that the recruitment ban is still in force, and only as an exception by decision of the Ministerial Council of Ministers of 33/2006 will proceed within the framework of the medium-term budgetary strategy - as is, of course, referred to in Article 3 - and the strategic priorities of each body, regardless of whether it is multiannual to plan recruitments or applications. With the dropping point and away from the needs, the recruitment will take place for the next few years, both for regular staff and seasonal staff, for which, in accordance with Article 4, the bodies must also recommend the way in which they cover the expenditure in question. You seek multiannual plans to shield any government from requests, struggles, the need for direct staffing of services to the people. The demands of public and private associations for mass recruitment in education, health and welfare are well known, but they are not satisfied. Once again you call for arrangements for the Constitution, which you could change, to abolish, but which you do not do - and there is a constitutional review - at times the commitments of the memorandums, first 1/5, now 1/1. You will then invoke the multiannual plan. You are linking recruitment with the financial data, that is to say, as far as the subsidies to entrepreneurs are concerned from naval spending, to the needs of business groups. The draft law provides for a timely recruitment process, which will probably act as an alibi to delay appointments rather than as transparency. There is an attempt to deal with issues of the functioning of the SAAP, not only volumes of work and malfunctions, but also contrasts that exist within the Vice-Presidents. In addition, staff shall be seconded, with the exception of the provisions referred to, for which they provide for overtime work, at night and exceptionally, in excess of the specified limits to be borne by the institution to which the staff member belongs. The same logic applies to the remuneration of the president, Vice-Presidents and members of the AACC as an independent authority. Our position here, the position of the JRC, is known for the so-called independent authorities. Our position is that they are deeply dependent, implement this legislative framework that is shaped, to satisfy the needs of the same bourgeois class, the business groups of that state. The aim is to strengthen the effective role of the Ministry and its work, which is why the Advisory Council is set up, a special secretariat to support actions, and a special sectoral secretary's post, to strengthen its services with new departments. Cooperation shall be established with the technical support concerned. Now there are the French, we don't know who they will be later. The Minister says we will get rid of these cooperations, but it also provides for cooperation with international imperialist organisations through the international and European cooperation section. The Special Secretariat has as its task the monitoring of all the additional restructurings which have been selected by the public administration and, of course, the coordination of evaluation procedures. Overall it modernises the Ministry to be able to promote more fully administrative reform in the urban state in the current phase of the promotion of capitalist development, with more advanced planning in the administrative system. It is characteristic that out of the thirty organic positions of the Special Secretariat the twenty will be covered by expert advisers, while the two areas of the Special Secretariat will be directed exclusively by expert advisers by setting up a new branch by the executives of the Executive Register created by the law of evaluation, the ‘Vernaardakis Law’. With a tool for the special secretariat and in the name of supporting and upgrading administrative capacity of public bodies, it will intervene to correct, adapt things with its strategy throughout the public sector, not only with directions and regulations, but also with operational actions, putting in the game direct and private bodies and Euro-Union bodies through programming agreements with them. With the cheese of the graduation and molecularization of PPC officials, it organises a special training program in the EKRD, recasts issues related to the work of selecting heads of Directorates-General, but leaves intact not the basic anti-territorial regulations, such as moleculosis, moleculosis, assignment to a position of responsibility, interview, etc., but uses the unclear and incomplete formalities and procedures of Law4369/2016 to select whoever it wants and for any position it wants. It leaves intact the punishing strike amendment that the government has voted to deal with the abstention of civil servants from the reactionary evaluation of Law No.4369/2016, of 'Vernaardakis', as we have said. It raises questions about the functioning of the service councils by leaving intact aspects related to their operation. It extends deadlines for the reactionary evaluation, trying to implement it in every way and despite the abstention of the public officials who have rejected it in practice. The bill comes to enhance deceptive, expectations of wide-popular strata, that there can be a philosophical governance of SYRIZA, that we may have a rule of law, that there can be a public administration that will be at the service of the people and its needs. The draft law invokes the European Union, its decisions, its directives and the need to adapt public administrations. Of all this, it is revealed that the functions, economic, military and repressive, are integrated in this process of transnational imperialist organizations. The essence of the conception lies in the strategy and interests of the bourgeoisie, under conditions of increasing capitalist internationalisation and, of course, the intensity of opposition. It is a public administration's adaptation strategy to the current needs for increasing the competitiveness of business groups, productive reconstruction, the capitalist economy. Reforms, modernisations and any changes come precisely to improve efficiency in favour of business groups. Historical experience shows that the reorganisation of various functions and aspects of the State was or was attempting to take place in the process of shaping and developing it. The urban state, however, remained a classic, oppressive, repressive, manipulative and inhibiting the rise of the labour movement, an instrument for expressing the general overall interests of the bourgeoisie. The rotation of political forces in governance, with any variation appearing, does not in any way alter the class character of the state as the instrument of the dictatorship of the monopolies, nor does it in any way affect the sovereignty of the bourgeoisie. This is what you are hiding with the designations of a party state, a state of siege now, a pasonic state before, a state of the right before. The bills submitted so far did. They promoted reforms, and indeed other regulations, through many bills relating to such a public administration. A common aim was to create a public administration - a tool that is already mentioned - the productive reconstruction of the capitalist economy, a tool that is more effective in supporting the profitability of business groups. The size of the state, small or large, does not exactly affect this class character of public administration. For example, the number of permanent staff in health, education and social services, those relating to and torture overcrowded populaces, has always fallen short of the needs of the people's families, and before you blamed for a large state, for the enlargement of the state, and much more for the situation created by the time of the crisis, created by the single policy of shrinking them as a government, as well as by the previous ones, of course, a policy that strengthens, which opens new areas for the profitability of capital in health, education and social welfare. Regardless of the governments which manage the needs of capital, public administration, the State does not change its nature. It is and will always be, until it is overturned, an instrument of this dictatorship of capital. Public administration is not classic. In the nature of the civil state, the civil servants, without them being identified, are part of this state organisation that undermines the interests of the people in the handling of civil order. It seeks to be disciplined, targeted, inconsistent and inconsistent with the implementation of the anti-grassroots objectives, and this is imposed by a series of regulations, disciplinary procedures, evaluations and others, which you have already established. And you've changed nothing from the previous ones. For the JRC, the essence of the problem with the public administration lies in the fact that it serves the strategic goals of the bourgeoisie that are contrary to the concerns of the working class, the majority of our own people. Workers in the public and private sectors have an interest and need from a state administration, which will be the main task of serving growth to the benefit of the people and thus modern popular rights. A prerequisite for this is, of course, the radical changes in the economy and power, the power of the working class, the only progressive order to replace the bourgeoisie, which is responsible for all the sufferings of the majority of our people, for unemployment, poverty, wars, refugee, millions of deaths. The new social system by abolishing capitalist property, socialising all the means of production will centrally design production, with the aim of satisfying the needs of the people in place of the current profit law. The administrative mechanism will thus not operate capitalist interests as a criterion. It will remove the territory of workers' interlocutory in the state administration with the various business interests. Government administration in labour power will serve production with the aim of broadening the satisfaction of social needs. For all these reasons, we are voting 'in favour' of the draft law. We shall vote, of course, on certain articles relating to workers, such as Article 34, on the leave of three months at full remuneration and for those who adopt, for those who become contractors, the authorisation of examinations to workers under Article 35, Article 36 on permits for training, examinations and on employees IDAC, Article 37 on the abolition of the age limit for postgraduate posts, Article 45 on the establishment of organic posts, Article 62 on the non-requirement of a foreign language for deaf people with a disability of 50%, Article 64 on the status of third parties - although third parties have another opinion and require that they do not lose their status as life expectancy - Article 66, of course, on the settlement of ECLAF hydronomists. A problem that has been working for years for these workers is being tackled and we believe it is being dealt with by this amendment. We will also vote on the amendment to facilitate employees with family obligations. It is an improvement, but it is not a family support, Minister. That is why we support the demands of the workers who have been tabled and in the committees, and we want to table them today in the Minutes. It is the reimbursement of the remuneration and the corresponding insurance contributions, which were retained by workers who were made available at the time by the Government of New Democracy in 2013. It is the equal pay and graduation treatment of all new entrants of the old AACC, who were recruited in a corresponding arrangement under Article 28 of Law 4440/2016, which recognised the waiting time only for the employees of the 1997 AACC until their appointment. It is the removal of the adverse effects of availability and compulsory mobility and the transfers of OTA officials (a) and (b) of all specialties. We are also talking about full wage and graduation recognition of the pre-service of civil servants. Recognise the pre-service and the legal persons of private public law who have changed form. Recognize fully the work with project contracts. Recognise the relevance of the service regardless of the category of staff today, at the time of carrying out the same responsibilities or not required for the grading of an employer's certificate in cases closed by the undertaking and the staff member's pre-service is demonstrated by other documents and data. To allow the third parent to choose for the use of the three-month leave provided for in Article 53 of Law 3528/2007 whether to be continuous or to be obtained in the form of a reduced working time. Why don't you do that? Also, to increase schooling permits for multiple parents. To grant a child's leave, provided for in Article 31 of Law 4440 and with a responsible statement from the parent, since we all know that very often young children spend the first 24 hours of viruses without medical supervision. To be granted to workers following the in-house fertilisation procedure a special 20-day leave on presentation to the service of a relevant medical certificate. They are requests tabled, Minister. You haven't said anything about them. We also put it in the Minutes to see the history of the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Aristides Fokas from the Independent Greeks has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to Step again after the most serious issue that has dealt with the whole of Greek society over the last few decades. Unfortunately, the Prespecies Agreement has been passed by the Greek Parliament. The Greeks all over the world sadly accepted the Ambassadors' agreement that we voted here last week. However, I will now concentrate on the draft legislation under discussion, for whose vote we are positive. It consists of five parts and seventy articles. It is a bill structured, with many details, the articles of which we will now see one by one. It is right to be the First Part containing provisions on strategic recruitment planning and the strengthening of the Higher Council for Personnel Selection, ASEP. The first Chapter, with Articles 1 to 7, concerning recruitment of regular and seasonal staff of the General Government bodies, is in agreement with us. All seven articles are in the right direction. In Chapter 2, under Articles 8 to 14, we see arrangements concerning the operation of the AACC are to be introduced. In particular, there is provision for the possibility of posting officials, by way of derogation from the provisions in force, to cover exceptional needs of the independent authority, the reform of the Overtime Employment Scheme of the AACC, as well as the adjustment of the remuneration of the President, Vice-Presidents and members. These articles will help the proper functioning of the SAAP. Part two concerns the final planning, monitoring and implementation of administrative reconstruction. The first Chapter, under Articles 15 to 25, provides for the establishment of an Advisory Board and the Special Secretariat for the Support of Administrative Reconstruction and Observatory. Here we do not agree with Article 15, which concerns an Advisory Council on Administrative Reconstruction. Article 19 does not agree with us for the public administration observatory, as does Article 20 with the support of administrative reconstruction actions. For reasons which we have mentioned at the first meetings, we are voting against all three articles. We are, however, in agreement with Chapter Two, with Articles 26 to 29, which regulates the process of integration of public administration bodies into administrative capacity upgrade programmes and defines the funding instruments for these programmes. We also fully agree with the third Chapter and Articles 30 to 32, which we see introduce transitional provisions concerning the operation of the special secretariat for support for administrative reconstruction and public administration monitoring actions. In accordance with the content of these arrangements and provisions, the positions of the Heads of the Special Secretariat shall be temporarily covered by officials of the industry, experts and until the organic positions of the staff are covered, may be seconded by officials from the general public sector. And for Part Three, which includes arrangements for strengthening and upgrading public administration, we are positive. We are also positive in the First Chapter, under Articles 33 to 42, which amend provisions of the Staff Code and the Code for the Rehabilitation of Municipal and Community Staff. The Independent Greeks also have a positive view in Chapter 2 with Articles 33, 43 and 44, which introduces new regulations, on the one hand, in the evaluation system for staff and in the single mobility system, as well as in the provisions of Chapters 45 and 46, concerning the setting-up of thirty-thirds of the organic posts of permanent staff in the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and the modification of the composition of the National Council for the codification and reform of Greek legislation. We are also positive in Articles 47 to 58 which introduce new regulations relating to the National Printing Office and the Official Journal of the Government. Because we are living in a digital era, it would be good at least gradually to limit the consumption of paper and ink. We will also agree in the Fifth Part, in Articles 59 to 71, which includes provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. It is right that the salaries of officials of local authorities seconded to offices of MPs and MEPs should be borne by the budget of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. So we're talking about a bill that finds us in all positive, except Articles 15, 19 and 20. The amendments will be referred to a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are being called before the House today on an extremely important, but also a complex bill, from which the excellence will be judged and the result of the confessed difficult and painful effort that has been under way for many years, in order to improve the quality of the services offered by the Greek public. In short, this legislative initiative by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction has to offer a serious response to those who demand that the unequal and disproportionate relationship between the taxes we pay as citizens and the services that the public offers us. Who can question, ladies and gentlemen, the general statement that no Greek citizen today believes that he enjoys services that are equal, equal and comparable to the arrogant taxes he pays? No one can question it. The Greek doesn't get what he's paying for. That's the truth. Who's to blame for that? The partitioning of the public? The memorials and austerity they imposed? The huge size of the public? The quality of human resources? The lack of control mechanisms? The paperwork? What about all this and all this? Irrespective of who and what is the fault of getting here, our responsibility concerns what has to be done from now on. Today our responsibility is the future, not the past. In view of this, therefore, and accepting at the same time that this draft law enjoys the broad support of the people themselves, which will affect their lives in a catalytic manner, as was shown by the hearing of the bodies, but also by the study of the memos submitted to our committee, we can only deal with it with a positive attitude, especially when its official purposes - in accordance with the explanatory statement, as well as what the Minister has said in committee - are the strengthening of an extremely respected institution, the ADP, which is considered by the few trustworthy institutions in our country, but also the more general improvement in the functioning of the public administration. There has been a lot of talk of structural problems, of chronic pathogens, but also of the need for transparency and dignity, with the aim of upgrading the functioning of the public administration, simplifying procedures, ensuring compliance with the principles of equality and equality, transparency and credibility of the Greek public. No one doubts that something needs to be done in this direction. Nobody. What we have to put in place for, however, is exactly what needs to be done. On this point, therefore, I would like to make it clear that we agree with the objectives of the bill. We do not question the good intentions of the government, nor do we have any objections to the way this legislative initiative has been presented, beyond the unfortunate coincidence of entering the committees for discussion and processing at the same time as the country was affected by the deliberate issue. This may have prevented Greek citizens from dealing, as they should, with the provisions of this bill. This cannot be a good thing either for parliamentarianism or for our democracy, especially in such a critical political period, which many question the value of democratic institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, we consider this draft law to be in the right direction. The only thing we can find as a point of friction - I would say - is whether these provisions, which are contained in this bill, will be implemented in such a way that the spirit of the law is respected, or if the gaps that it may have are exploited on a case-by-case basis, in order to circumvent all those defined as their purposes, in whose name we are legislating today, with the protection of the public interest in particular. And I say this because a careful study of the articles in the bill creates the suspicion that some people may find themselves able to use gaps and ambiguities to distort the substance of the law and continue to be bleeded into the public by fragmenting the taxes of the Greeks. But is suspicion a good reason to vote against a bill? My view is that not. Those who define politically in the central area, as centers such as myself, and place themselves in the area of the democratic centre, defend and defend the value of cooperation, the need for consent, the way for understanding, and thus obligate them to rely on unresolved evidence, on substantiated arguments, on self-proof conclusions, even on technological considerations, but certainly not on suspicion, regardless of whether this is justified or not. Each bill should therefore be considered separately and in the light of the national benefit and with a view to defending the public interest. Therefore, by recognising the positive sign of the bill, but also by identifying its inability to guarantee the results, we are forced to vote'residents' in principle. Now I come to some articles in the bill. Article 1 provides that from 1-1-2019 recruitment of all kinds of regular and seasonal personnel of the general government shall be carried out on the basis of multiannual and annual strategic planning. Article 2 lays down - once again from a specific date - for the adoption of any request for the recruitment of regular staff by bodies of the general government having an obligation to comply with the digital establishment plan to require the prior post of the vacancy in question. Article 3 provides that multiannual recruitment planning of regular staff requires the preparation by the relevant Ministries of updated four-year human resource planning plans. These are assessments of departures of staff, calculation of the amount of existing staff, and calibration of vacant posts, as well as of estimated needs. Article 4 provides that the annual recruitment schedule for the following year drawn up by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction on the basis of the annual recruitment plans for regular and seasonal staff, including staff recruitment requests, is approved under paragraph 1.33 of 2006. The inclusion in the annual programming of seasonal staff is also considered necessary by us. All this leads us to conclude that this legislative initiative has strong foundations and is not an opportunity to address the serious pathogens of the Greek public. I would like to say a few words about the National Printing Office and what is provided for in Chapter 4 and, in particular, Articles 47 to 58. Redefined the mission of the National Printing Office. Amongst other things, it is planned to work with the HEIs and TEIs to provide relevant know-how, which we consider to be extremely positive. Article 48 identifies further issues relating to the publications of the National Printing Office. The National Printing Office may carry out its own forms and printed and digital publications which in fact support its mission and work. Article 49 provides that the records of texts and tests, as well as of the FEIs in paper form for 15 calendar years from the present four, are to be kept in line with us for the purpose of ensuring transparency. I would like to make a comment on the articles with a positive reference to the provision of Article 58 with the provisions governing the possibility of introducing, of course, an internal regulation on the operation of the Museum of the National Printing Office. In this country we have paid very dearly our habit of forgetting. Such a museum has much to offer to historical truth. Ladies and gentlemen, the Central Association will vote in favour of most of the amendments accompanying this bill, in addition to two, the amendment with a general number of 1928 and the amendment with a general number of 1930, where it will be placed in the'residence'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-three students and students and four educational sessions from the 1st General School of Agrinio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, public administration is at the heart of the institutional democratic function and is a pillar of our country's development effort and the basic support for the functioning and effectiveness of the social state. Public administration in our country and in total in Europe during the period of crisis and memoranda was targeted and weakened both in terms of staff and in terms of structures and operation. I am referring to the European Union, because with the prevalence of neoliberal policy and its institutionalisation during the crisis and at the eurozone level, but also with the perceptions that have prevailed through the memoranda and have been imposed on those countries that have faced problems from the crisis, including our own country, even our own administration has seen to be destabilised and weakened. But we have also noticed in the Treaty of Lisbon the provisions on both social Europe and collective bargaining, in essence, frozen and pan-European by explicit reference. This is an institutional misappropriation to the European Union in the countries that have implemented memoranda. And on the subject that we are discussing today, the Treaty of Lisbon has had a specific provision on services of public interest and on the need to draw up European provisions that defend the role and tasks of public administration in Europe, as regards public services in Europe. This was another provision, another chapter of the Treaty of Lisbon which was effectively deactivated. That is why it is of particular importance that we are discussing this draft law today, since yesterday at the Ministerial Council, the Prime Minister announced the increase in the minimum wage, after ten years of reductions, in combination with the re-energisation of collective bargaining. I am very pleased that we are here today and on this aspect of important policies relating to development and the social state, which are in the same logic and strategy as the government, regarding the future of public administration in this new era. We now regain our sovereignty, define our policy and have choices in terms of public administration. After the 2015 elections, the SYRIZA government found the government's administration wounded and with a number of huge problems, but above all, with the inner cohesion and trust of civil servants, after the difficult period of the Samara government. I would remind you of the famous availability, reminding me of the three thousand redundancies, of the famous evaluation that was linked to the mandatory 15% deficiency, which defied the concept of evaluation, all the issues that the government had to deal with after 2015. Thus, the government strategy, which is unitary and has a follow-up and which forms part of the specific draft law we are debating today, has three phases that have evolved: In the first phase, in 2015, it was time for the restoration of injustices, the reintegration of dismissals, the abolition of availability - to recall that then after the elections the opposition claimed that there could be no such abolition, and yet it was possible - and, of course, the fundamental trust could be restored again within the public administration. In the second phase, from 2016 to 2018, it was an institutional guarantee of changes. For this reason, the two crucial and important laws of 2016 were enacted in order to make the necessary changes in the independence, integrity of the public administration, modernity and to restore regularity in internal operation, with regard to the issues of the crisis of the heads and the choice of staff. We have seen important institutions being set up at that time, such as mobility, such as the institution that wants to relieve the political guarding of the administration, by establishing a European institution, which applies to many European states and to the European Commission, the institution of administrative and sectoral secretaries, as a pyramid of the administration, which will have institutional memory and continuity, and of course the issues of digital organiza­tions, the contours and the management of human resources, the wealth of public administration, in a modern and efficient way, which takes into account the needs of public bodies, and of course also the respective qualifications of public officials. Here I have to make an intervention and say, because the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Georgant, mentioned this, that as far as the procedure under way in the AACC is concerned for the selection of administrative and sectoral secretaries, the Government and my predecessor last spring, a year ago, carried out an independent external evaluation of the tenders, and that those that were necessary were re-opened on the basis of the evaluation. With regard to the results of this procedure - which are the responsibility of the AACC and the special selection board head of its two compositions, which is progressing normally, the Government has no involvement whatsoever, we are informed of the progress of the work on the basis of the AACC's announcements - according to what is provided for in the law. Every Greek citizen from any position he has served, whether in the public or in the private sector, has the right to participate and to be judged equally and in accordance with the Constitution and, of course, under the unequivocal procedure of the AACC. So we are now entering the third stage, because now our country has been out of memory since August. At this new time when we are engraving our development and social strategy for the future, the public administration must also adapt to this process. And precisely because we have this possibility of recovering political choices, we have a clear philosophy of public administration, which is, of course, opposite to the neoliberal perception and the equalization of the small state, without taking into account the real needs of public administration for development and the social state. And, of course, we are opposed to this extermination, which the public administration had to bear in the years of the memoranda. And because we need to be in evidence, I would like to present, on the basis of the census kept in our Ministry, the development of regular civil servants from 2009 to this year in November, which shows precisely this reduction in staff who reach 20% of human resources. I say this not to mention the enlargement of the state, but to the very opposite. [[At this point, the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] At this stage, then, public administration and our philosophy puts the following four major needs, the following four major objectives: first of all, the functioning, the prospects and the development of public administration must be fully linked and serve the integrated plan, our strategy for the country's productive, development and social reconstruction. The second major self-evident objective is the continuation of implementation, speeding up and extending the major institutional changes and reforms that have already been launched. Our third major priority is the functioning of a public administration that is open to new developments, technology and open governance, which is also citizens-friendly and which proves this through its digital transformation, through simplification of procedures, but always be the depositary, which supports the public interest and ensures it. I come to the fourth major priority - which we attach great weight to this draft law - which relates to management, upgrading, support for the protagonist of public administration, which is the public officials, its executives. That is why we are seeking to invest in knowledge, training, training, the best use of their qualifications, but also in the crucial issue of safeguarding their social rights on the one hand - in a number of provisions - and on the other hand in the social character of public administration itself towards sensitive groups in our society, demonstrating that public administration must first of all ensure equality, equality and access to work. All these matters, therefore, come to serve them in this draft law. I would like to place myself in the large parts of the draft law. The first part - which I consider to be and is perhaps the most emblematic and necessary in the post-mortem period - is the multi-annual recruitment planning and then the binding annual recruitment planning for regular and seasonal staff. Unfortunately, due to the memoranda, recruitment was either carried out by the guilty, or we had to meet the needs of contractors, who had to admit that they held up public services, but without them being able to invest in a career, in training instead of working insecurity, or there were no recruitments, as demonstrated by the table I have just presented. As a result, we have an elderly public administration staff who has been patriotizing the public. Because this picture is not true that they are trying to cultivate. There may be bureaucracy problems, there may also be sworn civil servants, and there we are strict on disciplinary matters, as mentioned in the bill, but the majority of civil servants kept the public with patriotism standing. Even in very difficult services in the broadest sense, including education, health and all the issues concerning each Greek citizen. So, at this stage that we are entering the 'one to one' rule, which only stops the shrinking of public administration and does not lead to its enlargement, we, in response to the criticism of anti-population, declare that it is not our own end in the public service, and we cannot accept the isotopic concept of the small neoliberal state. We say that we want that public administration and that state which operates with democratic accountability and transparency and which is capable of responding, on the one hand, to the needs of the public administration mission so that the relevant bodies can serve the public interest and the citizens and, on the other, to the great needs of the country's productive and social reconstruction strategy. And that's what we do. We specifically record the needs of the public administration, not the way it is based on recruitment and planning. Furthermore, this is a crucial issue, through this programming process - and so we are responding to many of the rapporteurs' positions - we are linking up the recruitments, entirely to the institutional changes that have been made and we are supporting. In other words, every position within the multi-annual programming, in order to be approved and subsequently captured in the annual recruitment planning, must be reflected in the respective digital organisational schedule of the organisation with the corresponding position profile. It is precisely because we are linking this strategy with the support of the respective institutional reforms and changes. I would like to stand here - and I have read it in the committee, and I will not read it again - that the AACC repeatedly in its annual reports called for there to be at last a multi-annual and annual needs planning in order to be rationalized in terms of recruitment. As far as ASAP is concerned, its establishment was one of the top moments in the functioning of our democracy, but also of the institutional upgrading of public administration. We are well aware that until then the concept of administration and state had been afflicted in periods of anomaly after the Civil War through political designations and exclusions, and we also know the need to restore dignity outside client relations. That is why I believe that this institution has been consolidated in the consciousness of the Greek people and was one of the top moments in 1994, on government and Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou and Minister Anastasios Peponis. You will allow me to read from the 1994 draft report how timely the objective of the SAEP remains: "The formation of institutions that will break the umbilical cord between the ruling party and the public administration is the basis and starting point of its modernization. An independent administrative authority shall be established under the title of the Higher Staff Selection Board which shall be administered from now on by the recruitment system. The government is alienating from the recruitments. Of course, it maintains the political decision on whether to recruit and to what services, branches and specialities. This ends, however, its role and the government's intervention in recruitment and the AACC undertakes to carry out the procedures up to the nomination of the nominees.’ I believe that this reference to the AACC's rapporteur's report fully conducive to the mission and need of the AACC. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need four minutes of my dentistry. At the same time, however, twenty-five years have passed since. There are now new needs. We've been through a crisis. The AACC, due to its ranking, has many more and more, increased responsibilities. It does not just have the responsibility of selecting staff, it is now also involved in the judgments and administrative secretaries, but also in the heads, directors-general and directors-general. The ADP is facing problems. It does not have the necessary staff, because it has also suffered the decline in the entire public administration and cannot cope with, as it should, both in the interests of the public administration and the candidates who are, both, hostage proceedings. It is characteristic of the enormous effort made by the AACC for the 3K Prospect, while at the same time it must carry out all other notices that are critical and also the judgments of the supervisors. We therefore come to support ASEAN in very many ways. First of all, with the annual programming, which will also be submitted to the AACC in order to be able to organise its work from the outset with regard to the tender procedure. The second is that we give the AACC the opportunity to simplify the procedures, either by consolidating notices or by means of the two-year notices which we provide for, or by an important process of simplifying the documents submitted, where according to the opinion of the AACC, in particular on the issue of certificates, this simplification constitutes an accelerated process of up to four months. At the same time, and always with the agreement of the president of the AACC, there is in the draft law on the full electronicisation of the procedures of the AACC from 2020 onwards, in order for there to be acceleration and transparency. We resolve internal operating issues that have caused problems with the different interpretations of the departments and at the same time support staffing the AACC itself. Our aim is, of course, to have a permanent staff - our rapporteurs have put it in committee and in committee - but until the permanent staff process is done, we are establishing an exception to mobility in transition until the regular employees of the AACC are recruited. Having raised the question of overtime for workers, I believe that it is really the law that is provided - I think Mr Karras has put it from KINAL - and there is this special wording on overtime. It is for two years, that is, it is not a constant exception. I would remind you that it was also planned for the ECA in transition, when there was a great deal of pressure on pensions. And in any case, an insurance link is the existence of a common ministerial decision by the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction and the Minister of Finance in terms of implementation. The hope of all is that in two years' time the economic situation of our country and its development will allow the general public's wages to have a similar prediction and positive development. I move to the third part on the new structures that we propose and the related issues. I would like to be clear, because I feel that there have been misunderstandings and misunderstandings on this subject. Recovering our sovereignty with regard to public administration means relying first of all on the internal forces of our administration, on the scientific staff that our public administration has, on the graduates of the National School of Public Administration and on the well-known scientists it has, as well as on our universities. I say this because it has been said by everyone that there is a need for continuous monitoring, evaluation, comparison and at the same time suggestion with specific proposals for continuous institutional functioning and upgrading. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the role of the public administration observatory. It is a institution renowned to many European states and is one of the recommendations that the OECD itself has repeatedly put for good and modern administration. We are therefore not talking about recruitment - and I want to be clear about this, and I am also addressing Civic Opposition - but about secondments and transfers within the public administration. We are not talking about external consultants, or international consultants, precisely because we are now regaining our own sovereignty - whether private or private. This is an internal possibility for the public administration itself to have a authority to give the data and to monitor. Of course, we are also establishing the Administrative Reconstruction Advisory Council - there we have accepted the proposal from the ADEDY - to represent the public officials - and with the full support of the EMRP, which is a valuable tool for all matters relating to the operation and upgrading of public administration, so that there is an instrument that will gather all the critical bodies that form the strategy and for the public administration, but - in conjunction with the country's financial framework and strategy - and the country's overall development and social strategy. As far as the service we are establishing in relation to technical assistance is concerned, I want to be clear, there is a real problem in the Greek public administration. We are introducing and institutionalising promoted regulations and important reforms, but there is an objective impossibility of implementation, which is in many respects related to the fact that in previous years there has been a deterioration and weakening of public administration in staff and a lack of experience. So we see something that all parties have welcomed and that you say that it needs to be accelerated and strengthened, such as digital organograms and mobility carried out on the basis of these establishment plans. There are non-mobility bodies, because they have not managed to form digital organigrams and position profiles. And what do we suggest? To have institutional technical assistance, which will support all public bodies in order to meet the major challenges of institutional change. Today it is made by the incumbent services of our Ministry. This is a structure which will make a programme agreement with each body, in order to support them where they have problems, so that they can implement all these changes. And, of course, I would like to stress - and it is of great importance - two things: first of all, they are entirely related to the logic that the European Commission currently has, that in the next multiannual budget of the European Union, in addition to the Structural and Cohesion Funds, following the experience of the memorandums and technical assistance from the European Commission at the time, there will also be specific funding for the Member States which will make use of the agencies for administrative reform. So this new body - and that is how I respond to what Mr Georgantas said - is not a duplication. These are two new needs to be met, on the one hand, by monitoring changes, supporting and exploiting all these conclusions and, on the other hand, by exploiting European potential and policies and, above all, by supporting operators. And because something has been said about the cost, I would like to say that first there are no recruitments, because they will all work with transfers and secondments. Somewhere I have seen today some incredible figures being written about costs of 1 million. The cost, as shown by your report, is EUR 287,000, the real cost of which is EUR 87,000, because the balance naturally refers to the wage costs of secondments and transfers, but which are already within the state budget. I will say a few words about the fourth part concerning human resources. We support in many ways training, education rights and retraining for civil servants. We support their social rights, with particular attention to family matters, as mobility now provides for health grounds not only for the civil servant, but also for his or her spouse, children, but also for the elderly parents. It is a crucial issue in today's Greek society. In addition, with an amendment which we will also be tabling, we will also strengthen the leave of mothers, either multiples or threes, but also of mothers to a single parent family, in relation to the disease of children. They are provisions which we believe are important for the social nature of public administration and the social rights of civil servants, as well as the provisions on which there is a broad consensus, for third families and for deaf and deaf people. As regards the National Printing Office and codification, I would just like to say to Mr Georgiota that the point to which you refer and which also exists in Parliament's report is not about publishing in the FEK, but about posting the FEK on the website, which is why the technical term'registration' is used. So I don't think she needs any legislative improvement. Clearly the FEK is published, but in this case it is an entry on the website. If you look at Article 55, it's clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by saying that the draft law that we are discussing today and which I hope will receive the approval of this House at the very beginning comes to respond to the needs of this new era that our country is going through. It clearly expresses the philosophy of a progressive policy on public administration and the overall strategy of our country. It falls within the framework of the critical development and social interventions made by the Thessaloniki International Exhibition to date and comes to respond to those neoliberal choices brought by austerity, recession, the deterioration of the social state. We respond positively, based on the needs of the Greek people, to the development of our country and the social state. At the same time, however, although it has this clear progressive stigma, we have largely sought public consultation and wider consensus, and that is why we have accepted many comments from the actors at the hearing, but also from the Officerial Response and as a whole from the opposition parties so that there is no shadow of purpose. It is not our intention to make annual planning, it will be done by the government after the October elections, which will receive the mandate. Our destiny is a democratic, worthy public administration in the service of the Greek people. Thank you very much. I am also making the legislative improvements that I have already made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Constantine Javarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning I attended the interview of a professor of international law at the journalist Mars Portuguese. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You're laughing, but listen to something much more interesting than your laughter. So he is shocked that there has been one of the authors of the Prespecies Agreement, the one you are proud of, and I honestly say to you as a citizen who has an average language sensitivity that I have overthrown when I heard him say "I have passed this agreement so that I can answer it". So then I realized that the most serious problem facing this government, Minister, is those strategies of opaqueness that unleashes against the people, using abuse as a privileged tool, once and for all, and the misuse of the relationship that links words to things. I sincerely say to you - because I honour your presence on the government's benches, I have tried today to make an effort - that was the right word - and there I am very disappointed, because I have tried to see if this ambitious title 'Supporting the AACC and upgrading and strengthening the public administration' is represented, represented, served by the provisions of this bill. And there I didn't just bruise, but I got to the edge of insanity. Why? Because, Minister, you will allow me to agree with you, in other words, on this revolution brought by Law 2190/1994 in public recruitment, in the sense that it certainly cut off the umbilical cord that was organically linked by the client party state to the public administration. But this particular law you and your government have probably abused it and I will explain immediately why. First, you must know that before you enter the government, this law on the Government SYRIZA and ANEL has been amended thirteen times. How do you understand that? As an attempt to serve the AACC the purpose assigned to it by the Constitution in Article 103? You will tell me: 'Maybe'. But come today to explain to us: what is one of the fourteen provisions relating to the strengthening of the IAS that serves the purpose, the objective of the bill? Because when we say 'enforcement', we mean that we should provide for and take such legislative measures that the AACC as a constitutionally guaranteed and recognised independent administrative authority becomes effective in the direction of its mission. And this is the intrinsic of the principles of democracy, transparency, equality before law and publicity in recruitment to the public. A setup find me. There's no one. On the contrary, you complete the mosaicization of this original bill. Unfortunately, this is a tactic that serves the opacity strategy I told you about. But there is also something very important. You speak in the first articles of your bill on strategic recruitment planning on a one-year and four-year basis. Really, that's something very interesting. I have a question to ask you: If this programming was not strategic, would it be less planning? Are you telling me what this word'strategic' gives me? I'll tell you something else that's much more serious. Let's go down to see this very interesting point of view that you're taking legislative measures - take care of a number of words - that serves the final design, implementation, monitoring the strategy of democratic reconstruction of the administration. Congratulations! Take the egg and cut it. But is it possible for you, a politician who has written a route to both the governments and the National Representation Hall, not to be able to in-depthly check and discuss, that is to say, carry out, as I said at the beginning of my speech, such a legislative text that really honors your political origin? Because you have already said so proudly, but now you must have a little hope. I wouldn't like to say the other word, because you're really a lady and it doesn't suit you. I also ask how it is possible to convince us today that all of this, which I have called 'understood in a non-transparency strategy', is not done to cover with thick, inappropriate and inappropriate expressions of certain specific concessions or small-scale administrations of services which are related - and, of course, often justified - to some, some demands of civil servants. Is it, then, a strengthening of the fact that the AACC now meets with minor compositions or with single compositions? That is something that should have been done. To what does it strengthen the purpose? On the contrary, it makes its action more operational. No objections! You want to tell us about staff compensation issues? You want to tell us about the increase in the remuneration of the President and Vice-Presidents? But all of this forms part of this logic of highlighting an unprecedented issue which you have also included in the new era. Look: Stop that verbalism! It is a verbatimism that has been historically used by all the totalitarian regimes, such as Venezuela, for which - from what is said - you are one of the one or two governments that you are still supporting Maduro. You and the one with whom I don't know what you're dealing with is Prime Minister of Hungary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u28	What's he saying? Hungary?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u29	Watch out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u30	That's where Tsipras went on a trip.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u31	Hungary?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u32	Yeah, he went to Orban.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u33	Be careful now, let me tell you something else: you are coming to another point and you are creating new structures and we are really trying to watch what they are serving. So I see that the Public Administration Observatory is being re-recommendated. Well, could the Minister not know that this has already been established with Mr.4369? Is it also possible to bring measures to do with the evaluation - it is a difficult matter for you, I understand - or by moving, the passages - of the passages of Law 4440, which the ministers at the time were advertising to him as a great incision to upgrading and strengthening the status of sovereignty in public administration? This law has been amended by you who have created it, at least fifteen times. So, is it possible today to come here and tell us all these things? Something else has to be done. If you really want in the time left in your Government to leave a creative work, work with the wings of the House. Public administration issues are not matters which should - at least after what we experienced as a disaster and as a test of economic crisis and of the institutions - separate us, but unite us. You, however, follow this lonely path, the way of a strange completeness, which reaches the limits of narcissism. And we really cannot understand, ladies and gentlemen, you who have already interrupted me with your laughter, if you are satisfied for the four years of your government. Are you satisfied that with the Prespecies Agreement for the first time operating outside the borders of Greece Macedonian nation? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I am very sorry, but things are so much worse and you will soon realize how bad you have done, if there are some people who have done so, or have voted unrecognisedly, by mistake, because there may also be people who may have done so with a view to doing so. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] So, to finish, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u34	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u35	What I'm saying is what I have in my conscience and in my mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u36	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u37	Stop being noisy, because all you do is cause malfunctioning at the National Representation, in democratic debates and in the right that every Member of Parliament has to speak for himself and for his ideology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u38	You who tell us national traitors don't cause?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u40	This state-of-the-art state of fascism against the opposite and different opinion must be stopped in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u41	While insults are allowed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u42	However, you have never been democrats, you have never tolerated the other, the different view, which is why you are disturbed by the words that are out of reality and through the daily lives of the Greeks who have been suffering for four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u43	Only four years suffer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u44	I'll tell you something else now, Minister. Indeed, what is impressive is that, apart from a number of requests - a trade union character, in fact - some of which we shall vote, you have not made sure that you create conditions of safety for those officials who do their duty, those who want to participate with their minds, with their conscience, with their service zeal in the reconstruction of public administration. All you want, as a representative of the government of the former Conservative Left - and I sincerely understand this zeal you have - is for you and others to join in this system that governs us. I understand the words of a civil servant, well-trained, who also had the misfortune to be a poet...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u45	Are you concerned?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u46	...and leave us, before he commits suicide, some words that, despite the self-sarcasm they have, go glove in the case of those Central Left officials who are literally rushing to strengthen the ranks of this government: "Clerk next to - Malamos and next to my name." This is what I see you feeding all this zeal to conspiring at all these celebrations that Greece was allegedly released from the memorandum, freed from the hard rocks of Macedonian and now prevents us from going directly to destruction, with your own guidance. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Secretary, would you like something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u48	This is the Central New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u49	I'm sorry, Mr. Lappa, what do you want? Please! What do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u50	First of all, at the end of the day, it's also on personal grounds, but beyond that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u51	Tell me on a personal basis, or do you want to repeat something, in your speech, supplement? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u52	I would like to make some clarifications on the position taken by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Please, can you keep it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u53	I just want to note that you have already spoken thirty-two minutes in your prototype and if we respond to every speaker, we will not make any difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, allow me. First of all, I must respond on behalf of the government to some of the reports by Mr Javarras and the staff on some of the reports...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u55	Is that 5 minutes enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u56	Of course, they're enough for me and they're abundant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u57	To what is the staff, why do I want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u58	Mr Javarra, I am very sorry, but the Minister has explained that she wants to speak politically about your remarks. It's not just on personal grounds. I give her the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u59	And for the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u60	And for the staff. If you want, you can make a comment after. The world isn't lost!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u61	I won't abuse. Mr. Javarra, I heard you very carefully. First of all, because you made some reports about the government and charged me with verbalism, I would like to believe that it was verbalism on your side too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u62	For the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u63	I cannot imagine that the Parliamentary spokesman of the Officer's Representation meant it that way, making any association with the Government, which I would like to remind you is a democratically elected government in two elections in January 2015 and September 2015. The House cannot hear such accusations. I would expect you to revise your words that the democratic government of Alexis Tsipras has characterized authoritarianly or undemocraticly. That's the first. As far as the remarks you have made are concerned, even though you are a very diligent and informed MEP, you have probably not read the bill. And, much more, I'm surprised you came here to spark a climate, which is completely different from the pursuit we had all last week, in a difficult climate in this House. We have made a great consensual effort, to which your own Members have also contributed, having accepted a number of provisions that we have finally incorporated, which demonstrate the broadness of the consensus we are seeking. So, right now, I'm confused and I want to understand: what is the attitude of the Officer's opposition to the bill? Is the logic of levelling and anti-government, as you do on all issues, from national to public administration, social issues and minimum wages? That's your logic, what comes from this government, you level it? Or is it the attitude of your rapporteur and the Members of the New Democracy last week, which was an attitude to the substance and to which we have responded? And I would like to say - because it is obvious that you have not studied the content of the draft law and I have to answer it to you. You said the words were being abused. Who abused the words? The concept of'reform' and 'assess', when have they been abused in this country and in Europe? When the reform has now been identified, unfortunately, in the sense of privatisation, redundancies, market deregulation and punishment for your day. Because public administration is not a bright sector for the New Democracy to be taken over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u64	It's for PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u65	Mrs Vulture, although we have a friendly relationship and I personally appreciate you, because your Parliamentary spokesman was referred to in Law 2190 of ‘94 and how important it was, I would remind you that the New Democracy then voted against the law of the CSCE. So be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u66	In 1994...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u67	From that point on, in addition to these general positions, as regards the abuse of words, you left a public administration - and although I did not mention it very much - you are causing us to say that there were public crises in ten years and that Mr Mitsotakis as Minister of Administrative Reform then, on 31 December 2014, at an election time, placed all the Directors-General of the Ministries. The SYRIZA government, the anti-democratic, you say, has not only expelled and fired anyone but three years of co-operated with these general directors. And, once the democratic atrocities have finally been made with the supervision of the AACC, many of them have been confirmed. As far as the Observatory is concerned, we clearly knew that there was this observatory, but it had a very close mission. That is why the provision in the ECHR is being abolished and we are now setting up an Observatory on the basis of European standards. Mr Javarra, I really would like to believe that the attitude of the New Democracy will not be a stand-by-side political atmosphere, but it is in the essence and the needs of the public administration, as was expressed by your rapporteur in all our legislative improvements to the committee. I would like to say something else on staff. Mr Javarras also found the opportunity to make a personal reference to me, on my political path and to those executives, of the wider socialist progressive space, who are currently working together or who have approached the SYRIZA. First of all I would like to say, although this of course avoids your crisis, that I understand your anxiety as a Civic Opposition, when you see that SYRIZA is not isolated, as you wanted to show all the previous years, while you, unfortunately, have lost every opportunity to chat with the middle and centre space through your full right turn and dilute, as shown on all issues. On the contrary, at the moment there is a great need, both in our country and in our country, for a wider progressive conflict. That's what's happening right now. And on staff, I would just remind you - because I am not doing personal shots and assessments for anyone - that in 2012 I disagreed with the second memorandum and resigned from the Minister. We were two ministers we quit. Mr. Koutsoukos is here today. We then resigned from the ministers of the government of Papademos and on employment rights. And because you said what I have to do, I have to say to you - and that is why I am making this reference to labour rights, because yesterday the Ministerial Council decided to increase the minimum wage, such as the restoration of collective agreements and labour rights beforehand. These were the main reasons for my own - and many other comrades - disagreement, for which we resigned and deleted, as they constituted the identity of the socialist space. I have given you a political answer on your personal reference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u70	Mr Javarra, he has not mentioned you and you have nothing on staff. You were placed as a parliamentary representative and the Minister replied. Let us move on with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u71	But he asked me questions. Do you understand that? The Minister asked me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Javarra, there's nothing personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u73	Did I say personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u74	So what? I can't give you the floor now. We can't open a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u75	I ask why I am a parliamentary representative and have the right, under the Rules of Procedure, to have three-minute intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u76	Three-minute intervention in your dentistry, Mr. Javarra, not at any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u77	The Members of the Rules of Procedure know them there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u78	They know. I know them, too, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u79	They know them very well. I'm not using dentistry. I want to make a three-minute intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u80	Why would you make a three-minute intervention, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u81	For the reason that I want to hear right now, in response to what the Minister has told me. Am I clear?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u82	You are very clear, but the Minister has answered and we cannot open up a dialogue at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u83	He asked me questions, which I cannot leave unanswered because I represent the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u84	Yeah, but you're not helping...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u85	Can you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Javarra, we are starting to create impressions within this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u87	You become an accomplice to succumbing to democratic dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u88	Partner? Democratization of democratic dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u89	In fact, by conceiving.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u90	Mr Javarra, I'm sorry, the list must be started right now. You want to have a dialogue with the Minister. You're in the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u91	Answer the questions. I'm speaking Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u92	Why are we talking 'Macedonian'?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u93	To answer the questions he has asked me. At the moment, I am a deputy to the party president and I have the right to reply. You can understand, under the Rules of Procedure, what you should do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u94	All right, I'll give you the floor right after the speakers...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u95	Did we have to get to this point?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u96	To get to what point?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u97	That of getting rid of us so much that they have some things left their turn and their class?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Javarra, you know what's going on very well now, don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u99	I'm interested in you to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u100	I understand very well what's going on. And because I understand what's going on, I'm trying to prevent it from happening right now, the impressions that you're trying to create within Ethiopia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u101	Well, I'm not using it, Mr. President, but I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u102	What, you're sorry? Mr. Javarra...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u103	Because it is the first time that it is addressed to a party parliamentary representative, by the government's representative, a specific question, and it is not given the right to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u104	Let me give you the floor, Mr. Javarra. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u105	I don't want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u106	You don't want to. So who's making impressions right now? So, let me understand, what is going on in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u107	I quit. Enough! The other Members will say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u108	Resign. Well, let's move on with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u109	Has the Minister spoken for forty-five minutes and cannot the parliamentary representative speak for two minutes? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u110	But we said, Mr. Georgioda, to speak. Now you understand that impressions are being created.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u111	You didn't see what was before!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u112	I saw it very well. I may not have been in the hall, but I saw what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u113	It's the couple that exists...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u114	And Mr. Javarras says he's resigning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u115	What's he gonna do? Sitting confronted with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Javarra, would you like to place yourself here, so we can get this over with, or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u117	The other Members will say so. Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u118	The other Members will say so. So you understand that you confirm me on the subject of impressions. If ever possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u119	Mercy! Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u120	Mr Georgiodda, please, let us move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u121	Please! What kind of impressions? Where did you see the impressions?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u122	I would ask you very much to proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u123	You don't need to impress Mr. Javaras!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u124	But when I give him the floor and he says, "I'm quitting"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u125	But after five minutes, what's he gonna say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u126	Well, we're gonna get on the speaker list. Apart from Mr Javara, who has been placed, he has already expressed interest in three other parliamentary representatives. We will start with three speakers and three speakers will speak Parliamentary representatives. In turn, Mrs Vakis, Mr Koutsoukos, Mr Katsikis, have spoken. Three speakers will also enter the Parliamentary Representatives. Mrs Kozobol from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. What was said by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy just before did not surprise me. I was sad, however, because this Parliamentary representative, Mr Javarras, has said so very well that he knows that no international agreement recognizes nations. He is well aware of the official line of his party in 2008, the established national line, and he knows very well that this national line was taken far beyond constitutional assurance. So he pityes me for not having the generosity to admit it. I also regret the fact that we have lived in this Chamber, indeed, examples of poor legacy and have pointed them out and been burnt by Mr Javarras in the past. But I regret that it does not have the generosity to admit that this bill today is a product of good legislation. Before I begin to refer to this bill, I would like to praise the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u128	Five days of consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u129	And for consultation and for committees. Listen! Five? Five. That's what's predicted. The Minister was aware of the product of consultation and the process in the committees. All the comments made by all the Members have been taken into account. The comments of the operators, their reservations and as a result of these remarks have also been taken into account, we have constantly had supplements, legislative improvements, with a result that is surprising. I would like to praise the Minister and her colleagues for this result we have in the Chamber today, which shows something else that the Minister has pointed out. That we have regained our national sovereignty and legislated without suggestions. The draft law: Multiple exhibitions and decades since the beginning of the previous century have demonstrated public administration as the great patient, with major diseases of bureaucracy, opacity and corruption. Public administration pathogenesities work in addition to all others as a forum for the fair development of public interest and citizens. At the core of the bill under discussion is the word "design", which is served by the basic principles of the functioning of the public administration, the merits of recruitment and staffing, the effectiveness of the work it serves, democracy in the functioning and rights of employees. I am referring to planning, because the draft law itself draws up a plan for short- and medium-term recruitment and lays down conditions for the efficient operation of the public administration, but it also forms part of a more comprehensive plan drawn up by the current government for public administration. So it "swipes", to allow the expression, this bill with the two previous legislations, L.4369/2016 and L.4440/2016 and complement them. I am not talking about L.4325/2015, by the first laws of this government, because this law restored injustices to disciplinary law, hired officials who had been made available and was generally a law that calmed injustices from the past. I am referring to the two laws of 2016, supplementing the current draft law, which complements this government intervention. The draft law is also on the opposite side of the logic which has involved public administration for decades with reasonable customer relations and has made it, as many have said, the great patient, by provoking studies and reports on his or her healing, at least, since 1950. After the previous legislation laid down the way in which public officials were assessed, the pool of executives were provided for with meriting and transparent criteria and how to meet the needs of the public services by internal movement of civil servants, with a view to the recovery of the State and the digital transformation of the public administration. This draft law provides for a system of multi-annual and annual strategic plans for the recruitment of scheduled and seasonal staff. Unlike secondment according to the pressure of each Minister, for the first time the needs are recorded and recorded in a multi-annual planning based on estimated departures and empty organic positions. This is sent to the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, which by a simplified procedure sends all these lists and needs to the AACC to organise the competitions. Since no recruitment is carried out without an invitation to tender by the AACC, programming would be an empty letter if at the same time no provisions were adopted providing for the strengthening of the AACC. It's this reinforcement that Mr. Javarras saw nowhere in the bill. To remind you - Mr. Javarras said this - that the AACC is one of the first independent authorities where they are established? The State accepts its inability to manage its own, public affairs and essentially admits that it is sinking from the grid of all kinds of customer relations and grants a neutral administration, in a neutral structure, which normally corresponds to it. So, in order to meet its enhanced role, the AACC remains an institutional guarantor of the dignity and transparency that has so far gained the confidence of its citizens, strengthens its staffing. That's exactly what's going on. This is its strengthening in order to be able to perform its role. We have an example now of a 3K competition, where 125,000 candidates competed for 8,500 seats. All these excuses, how will they be checked? If, then, staffing is not strengthened, allowing more hours to work than is permitted by law, to be made better, if this is not stronger, what exactly is it, Mr Javarra? It could be verbalism. The Observatory shall be responsible for the development of the operational planning, monitoring and implementation needs. That's all said. I don't have time to repeat it. It has, however, been abolished - and you have not noticed that, Mr Javarra - the provision by Mr L.4369. The new services of technical support are also provided for precisely in order to enable a law not only to be legislated and adopted, but to be able to be implemented and implemented. The rights of workers are also provided for - I shall not repeat - because no structure can function unless we have training, the rights of civil servants, unless we manage these people and give them all the guarantees that they can do their job. One of these parameters is disciplinary law, so that these people are not held hostage for an unlimited period of time with the limit set. In conclusion, I would say that the draft law in question justifies and supports the mission of the Ministry of Administrative Reform and needs to be voted on. I will say only one word, if I may, Mr President, for the three of the amendments I sign. One is the amendment to hydronomists. These people have a problem that has been arousing them for ten years since the decision and the plenary session of the Ice Board that was issued. I will only say a word about derogating from the law on mobility of the National Centre for Public Administration and Government and the Committee on Game Surveillance and Control, because these services cannot be served by the new system and their obligations are too many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Kozobol. Mrs Scrivener has the floor for seven minutes from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, with regard to the previous debate, I would like to say something to the Minister. Of course, you have the right to go to SYRIZA and even beyond. Nobody has denied it to you. All this would now be worthwhile - that you have the right to move and serve a government of the centre and the centre-left, etc. - if Mr Tsipras himself did not take care of a day rather than a day to remind us that it is the old system of PASOK and New Democracy that is to blame for all the sufferings of the country. You have been included in this old system - no matter what we do - since '81 in senior positions, that is, a party secretary or Minister, etc. So these complaints to tell your President, your leader now, that since you have taken all of us who belong to the old system, you cannot continue to conquer the old system. It's simple and it's really gonna end this. Because, now, where you are, you must be caught with strength, because in fact this argument of your leader runs counter to everything you say. We're not saying anything else. And you that every time you're surprised with Orban, what, has Mr. Tsipras not visited Orban?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u132	Isn't it the European People's Party, Mrs. Vulture?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u133	No, wait a minute. Let go of the fairy tales.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u134	Mrs. Vaki, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u135	Is Mr. Tsipras of the European People's Party? We've got a connection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u136	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen! He's talking from the Step Comrade of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Tsipras - because you've taken us crazy with Orban - visited him on September 12, 2017. He made a statement saying they had a friendly conversation in the context of respect for the different views and before he left, he told Orban: "The village of Belogannis and your eyes". Orban didn't have any more. From the city I come to the top cinnamon! So Tsipras went to Orban - you've been blaming him here all day - they talked very nice and then they said to watch the village "Belologicalannis". The extreme Orban who is at the People's Party and Mr. Tsipras who is with Madour! There is no doubt that here we are facing a propaganda campaign in order to get people's attention extracted from the ratification of the agreement on Macedonia and its effects which are already making their appearance. Today we are talking about recruitment for Macedonia over a period of four years. But today we are discussing them and discussing them as far as the press debate was concerned. Today we have recruitment for Macedonia, yesterday a minimum wage for Macedonia and tomorrow Macedonian bonds. Do what you can to change the agenda of the conversation. As far as recruitment is concerned, you know very well that you are closing the eye with promises of appointments in the future. With regard to the increase of the minimum wage announced by Mr. Tsipras in the middle of ministerial applause, you know that this should have happened already on January 1, 2017, under our law, of No 4172/2013. But now you connect it, because it was always connected to the exit from the memorials. You guys, what you're connecting it to now, I don't know. What are you trying to say to the world? That we have signed and voted to get our neighbours a name, identity, language, right of self-determination, will you see the consequences - access to the sea, but will we recruit, increase the minimum wage, which will be reduced by increasing contributions and all that? So, what are you going to do with this? The connection is clear and the transaction is also clear. It's not just us. It was written by HANDELSBLATT, which said that Mrs Merkel was lenient with Mr Tsipras, because the subject of the name book goes well. We don't. It was written yesterday by "POLITICO" where Juncker said that this note of Macedonia is what Tsipras pays for the destruction of the first half of 2015 and his rescue. Apparently, that's why they let you get where we arrived. Now all of a sudden, Mr Tsipras himself made a connection yesterday to the bond issue with the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement. What do you say? Is that what the markets, these 'rapid coroners', 'wolves', the'man-dogs' of the system, the 'international crooks', were expected to do, as you called them? They were waiting to give Macedonia to let us out on the markets? In those markets where Mr. Tsipras called us to turn their backs on them, throw them in the trash, calling us the taliban of the markets, wait the day we baptize Zaf Macedon and his great-fashioned brother to go out on the markets? We were also informed yesterday in the most official way that the yield of the ten-year Greek bond fell back after Parliament voted on the Prespecies Agreement. I mean, I'm sorry, I didn't understand. You connect them, not us anymore. You go out and say it yourself: Recruitment of Macedonia, increases in Macedonia, bond of Macedonia. In essence nothing, because, as I have said, recruitment would have been organized if you allowed and did not have the country's way out of the memoranda. As for exiting the markets, we had already come out twice in 2014. You're doing what you don't hear, you discredit it, not your financial staff. However, we were on the market on April 11, 2014, five years and we got 3,000,000 and on July 10, 2014, we got three years back and we got 1,500,000, no matter what you say. Now you're telling us that then the interest rate was higher. But four years ago, the interest rate would probably be higher. Now let's see where we can see that you opened the offer book and finally we see that the interest rate is stung. You also tell me why you will now say a lot, what happened in June 2015 and in the ten years you took it close to 13%, the five-year-old near 19% and the three-year-old near 28%. In this situation you brought the country. And then he accused us that the exit was set and that we are a partner of 'GOLDMAN SACHS'. And what did you announce yesterday? You announced that your exit is organised by GOLDMAN SACHS and MERRILL LYNCH, HSBC and JP Morgan and Morgan Stanley and Societe Generale and Bank of America and, of course, by English law. For the first time, the left really, because all that you've been blaming us for now is tenfold. Obviously, that's what Mr. Tsipras meant when he said he'd hit the bullies and dance the markets. In other words, the return, as always, will be a burden on Macedonia's duo and Mr. Tsipras will dance. But remember, after the bullies of Macedonia comes the bell of Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Buddhism. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. It has opened a debate by both the Minister and the speakers so far on public administration. I think it is a great debate that can be developed and that we agree or disagree. However, if we see historically, from the Civil and then at least, the public administration continued to take due advantage of the governments and the parties, depending on the juncture, and this continued until the PASOK and the democratic party decided to put an end to this dependency, to customer relations and to the fact that only the ‘Barba to Koroni’ and the ‘Barba to Koroni’ had access to the public. In fact, the PASOK since the first day has gone into areas to change this system, this perception and these structures that were created. Sadly, the days until the 1990s, we saw systems developed within PASOK to make use of the gaps and what was there. This is why in '93 with the taking over of the PASOK re-government, it was first of all the issue of the introduction to the public administration of executives, the recruitment of executives and procedures. And then the logic of the "party" were ended, because they were not party, individual systems within the party. We had seen the groups, which had also been created in our own space, but also outside the parties in the public space. ASEAN, therefore, is not a mere legislative initiative. It is the intersection in the historical times of public administration, and I think that we should preserve it and strengthen it. I listened carefully to the Minister who read from the report, and that is of course the way it is. Only from time to time - and with today's governance we have seen it with others - interfere with the AACC informally or in writing - the documents have been made public - to quote, allegedly, anguish in relation to the staffing of the public administration. They're actually interventions. All this has to end. There must be no room left. Of course, we also saw complaints resigning counselors from the AACC, forced by other situations. But it's not just SAPA. Citizen Service Centres are another institution. They're the independent authorities. I was amazed to hear SYRIZA spokesman saying that the independent authorities are "the assignment of the power of administration that cannot do its job". Which analysis, deepening and documented! Look, the independent authorities, if you don't understand, control the administration. They have a power over the administration to control the administration. For example, the Child’s Counselor, within the institution of the Citizen’s Counselor, controls administration. He himself is the institution of the Citizens' Counselor who controls both the administration or the administration as such. So you cannot say that the independent authorities are doing administrative work. The Competition Committee must also monitor the administration. It is unacceptable that what has been heard and abstract of the concept of stateism, that the state, the Soviet-type state, which in fact you have in your mind, should do everything. Yeah, but with what institutions? Because the state, in the broad sense, is a supreme authority. With the governmental institutions? To identify the people, the state with the government or with the opposition or with any other institution? No, gentlemen. The independent authorities - and we will defend them - of course need their modernisation, their strengthening, their adaptation to the new data. We did not, however, stop before the crisis or in 2003 the modernisation of public administration. The crisis that has "dried" and I believe that, at least in this respect, you have not changed your mind, Minister, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, that the crisis that is abrupt, mainly and not just, derailing in everything, not just economic derailment, governance Karamanlis, has shown us what changes need to be made to this place. These changes we started from the first day. It is not just 'DENMARK'. Electronic prescribing is an important institutional intervention, which we know about. It's the electronic supplies. In the crisis, all this has been done, in an effort to tackle the crisis. Of course, all this continued in one way or another with all the governments. What is not allowed today is to return to old perceptions. The new era, which exists, is not determined either on 20 August, formalised by the loan contracts, nor, of course, by the taking over of government by one government or another. The new era, both globally and at European level, is about developments. The need to synchronize, for example, with the fourth industrial revolution, at the time of artificial intelligence, creates new data. This is the new era. It's not about governmental change. So when we have this need in the era of the fourth industrial revolution and here we have the management of digital policy by another minister than that of administrative reconstruction, you understand that it cannot go any further. When we have a revival of old client systems that have to do with the exploitation of executives, it can't go any further. This is not a new era. It's a reconfiguration to the old-fashioned systems! I cannot rule out that since your government is right and old and clean, you may have been influenced and blurred by their perceptions. But that is not what the country needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u141	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u142	A little time, Mr President, if you please, and I would ask another colleague to earn the time. It was the first post-crisis period to discuss again how many general secretaries should exist in the Ministries. And there was an attempt to make this reconstruction. It had ended up in the number thirty or forty. Mr Mitsotakis, who claims modern times - when and modernistic views in one way or another add-on and again - were under pressure from one Minister and from the other - and reached the sixty-five. And you came from 2015 and then you legislated. And do you know how many you've done, Minister? You made them ninety-two. And one added today, we have reached the ninety-three sectoral secretaries, substitutes for sectoral secretaries, thematic secretaries, sectoral or thematic experts. Is it possible to proceed with this kind of logic? You also keep old ones - you do not say when they are abolished - and you create new ones. And you also create the register of directors for public administration - which has to be done - but you are setting different criteria in each notice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u144	We have done parliamentary control on this. Criteria cannot be adjusted to each notice depending on the person you want to get.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Kegeroglu, please, we're in ten minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u146	This, if it is the revival and legalisation of the old-fashioned model with modern methods. You can't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u147	Come on, Mr. Kegeroglu! We're almost ten minutes away. You asked for a minute. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u148	I shall conclude, Mr President - and thank you very much - with a word on the minimum wage. He's reported. It's very important. It should have been the law that was in force since 2017, of course. There were preconditions before. Unfortunately, we had a regression because of the third memorandum. But I wonder why you continue to support the state-run model, namely the Council of Ministers. We have to go to collective bargaining. Of course, if we do not go along with the measure of increasing the threshold from a framework of tax measures and not abolishing duty-free from 1-12020, then it will be a gift - free of charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u149	Come on, Mr. Comrade. Help the process a little. Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u150	So there is a need for a comprehensive reform, not just of the election type, which does not meet the needs of society today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much. Until Mrs Vaki comes to Stepma, I will make two announcements to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-nine students and students and two teachers from the 4th General School of Pyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Furthermore, the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister for Civil Protection, Finance, Migration Policy, Shipping and Immigration Policy, the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, and the Deputy Minister of Finance, have today tabled a draft law: ‘Since 31 December 2018, the Act of Legislative Content of the Legislation ‘Extension of the Main Residence Expansion from Liquidisation pursuant to Law 3869/2010 (A 130) extending reduced VAT rates to the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos, Chios and Chios and the measure of ‘Transport Equivalent’ of Law 4551/2018’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Vaki, has the floor for twelve minutes. Immediately after Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start from the bill and then enter what has been heard by the previous speakers and before you. So I start from the bill, which I consider to be very important. The country's structural and fair growth must always go hand in hand with its institutional and democratic armour and strengthening. Public administration is an indicator and a component of the democratic culture. If you look back at her history, she will find a timeless pathogen, a pathogen that has been treated with a barbarity that has been violently imposed by the time of the memorials. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek public administration has been a bureaucratic monster that did not serve, threatening the citizen every day, a monster that raised up a parasitic network of party parties and not a worthwhile placements by you, the otherwise transparent preachers of excellence and the professors in the name of merit. The treatment proposed by the architects of the memorandums and the domestic healers gave them the charismatic shot and the public became animosity in the altar of neoliberal projects and the supposed viability of the Greek debt, which had then made the life-threatening of the workers in his service. Public administration has been impoverished, deported, injured, depreciated from services and valuable human resources. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2015 the government has legislated on public administration solely to restore injustices on the one hand, but on the other, transparency and quality improvement of administration. Allow me to make a brief statement of what has happened. In 2015 with L.4325 ‘Democratisation of administration, combating bureaucracy and e-government, restoring injustices and other provisions’, what did the government then do? He put an end to the availability and redundancies. He put an end to undeclared warfare and brought peace to the public sector. In 2016, L.4369, ‘National Register of Public Administration Executives’, and L.4440/2016 what did they do? They legislated on transparency, emancipation and institutional memory of the public, selecting executives and Secretary-General on the basis of CVs rather than party identities, but also the possibility of personal careers and functionality through a simplified mobility system, which also operates and has a great resonance. The spirit behind this draft law is that of further strengthening the effectiveness and integrity of the public administration, which must be in the service of the public interest and of the citizen, but also of full transparency in the selection of the executives that will make it up. In summary, firstly, this draft law introduces the system of four-year planning of the recruitment of regular staff submitted to the relevant Ministries, of course taking into account the annual government budget and the financial framework in question. An annual category, industry and specialty recruitment plan shall be submitted for regular and seasonal staff. Little do we all know the unregulated staff that has been followed by subscribed technical services, cleanliness services to local government I and II agencies with tragic consequences for the citizen. The second is that the notices issued by the AACC stem from adequate needs and are allowed by the bill to integrate requests into a single by sector and specificities of a notice of the positions requested by the relevant bodies. Thirdly, the AACC, as part of the constitutionally guaranteed independence of its members, is strengthened and safeguarded basic labour rights of its employees. Fourthly, the suburban divide between theory and deed is bridging. How? In the context of proper monitoring and implementation of the administrative reconstruction strategy, a Special Secretariat Advisory Council is to be set up to support administrative reconstruction, public administration monitoring and technical support service for public administration bodies, aimed at providing expertise to public bodies. I answer what has already been said and should be underlined in order to avoid misunderstandings and the usual opposition krone about the creation of new positions by itself and by a large majority. I would like to answer that, apart from highly qualified consultants, staffing is carried out by secondments and transfers. It should also be stressed that the Monitoring and Evaluation Centre for Applied Policies is not something that we discovered here. It recommends best practice in most European countries. Finally, let it be underlined that substantial training and support for human resources in the public sector is a constant demand and, of course, is far from being assessed under the genocide of which they were hiding? Dismissals, vengeance, punishment or promotion of "days". Finally, the bill does not only guarantee transparency and functionality of the public administration, but also fundamental rights of workers in it. I consider this to be a very important aspect of the bill, and let us go a little bit on parental leave. A three-month leave is now entitled and mothers who have childbirth. For the first time this licence is extended to the foster father at the request of the constitutionally established principle of gender equality. Three-month leave is now entitled to both fostering parents and parents who have a child under the parental leave procedure. Secondly, in matters of study, retraining and training for the sake of equal treatment, the rights of permanent staff are extended to civil servants, local authorities, to legal persons governed by public law with a working relationship of private law without indefinite duration. Furthermore, it is worth emphasising that the bill puts an end to - let me express - a specific age-old 'racism' in terms of the right to postgraduate studies, by abolishing the age limit. Thirdly, I would like to withdraw some grim memories from the Disciplinary Law of Officials in 2012, which, if you recall, had abolished the presumption of innocence. Why? For their removal it was enough to refer them to a Disciplinary Board. It was the first time that the presumption of innocence was literally replaced by the presumption of guilt and applied the well-known "competent until provenance of the opposing". In 2015, this government abolished this disgraceful provision of the legal culture and this draft law further ensures the effective respect of the presumption of innocence, speeding up the disciplinary procedure, so that the employee involved does not become a permanent hostage status, nor of course does the offence be recorded. Finally, if we support the social state, if we really want an open society that embraces everyone without discrimination, without divisions among first and second-class citizens, then the legislator must take into account socially vulnerable groups, multiple families and disabled people. This draft law provides for a 10% share of regular posts, but also for staff under an indefinite private law contract, to be covered by parents with three children and their children. However, it also provides for 10% of posts for disabled persons, including deaf or hard-working persons with a disability rate of 50%. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the superhuman effort to survive and to integrate our fellow citizens with disabilities, the state must give them a breath of life and, above all, a breath of dignity. I did not intend today to deal with topical and urgent subjects of major importance. But I have some answers to what has already been said in this Chamber. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that what has been said is an outrageous Latin saying. I'm sure you know that, Mr. Javarra. ‘Fiat justitia, et pereeat mundus’. I would therefore paraphrase it in 'Fiat New Democracy et pereat mundus'. In other words, let the Civic Opposition come out and be poisoned by nationalism and hatred, let the Greek people be divided, let the parliamentary word flood, let the orders of the Golden Dawn come out of the day, since your extreme rhetorical secrets - let me - provide them with a symphony leaf. I do not think that it is the national interest, which, incidentally, the Embassy Agreement is in favour of an antenna, which is what you are being cut off for. After all, in the past, in all these years of your governance, you have given tangible examples of writing in defence of the national interest that the Greek people took on. What can we do? National interest is not to drag a country into a memorandum, including because of the fiscal clashes and uncomfortable enrichment of an elite in the state's losses. Neither defence, of course, of national interest is huge tax evasion, tax evasion, tax havens and offshore companies. We have discussed this in detail. I think your problem is not your disagreement on the Prespecies Agreement, but it is the anti-SYRIZA vigilant, hated in the face of which you do not hesitate to turn the clock of history back into social opinions, to national genius, to spatial guard, to gangbangers, to EAMOBulgars and you do not hesitate to feed the beast of nationalism and racism. Except, ladies and gentlemen, the beast becomes Frankenstein. He's self-deterred by his creator and he turns against him. And the beast wants blood and doesn't discriminate. We have not overlooked history or betrayed anything in your unspeakable and unspeakable obsessions. Or rather, if something has been falsified these days, if something has been betrayed was the faith articles of the barbaric policies that you have brought us, which you have signed, which you once declared to us proud of. Yes, well, we betrayed the disgraceful underpaid, abolishing him. We've raised the minimum wage. And then a series of positive measures for which all you found to say, by stepping up this disastrous strategy of tension, the strategy of division and destabilization, are that they were designed as the antidote to the Prespecies Agreement. In the same pattern you argued that we exchanged pensions with Macedonian.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u153	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u154	We will continue to restore injustices, legislate for a dive and a desperate social majority and to restore the social state. I would appeal to you to stop going to this right-wing, 'orbanisation' street with whom? With an escort to VMRO? Orban? Salvini? So who's with? With the extremist voices that extremize and cancel Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. It is now up to the Independent Member, Mr Lazaridis, to follow Mrs Lebanese from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to start differently from the bill, but by listening to my colleague talking about Macedonia, I cannot comment on it. Macedonia grieves. This morning I came from Macedonia, and the world really has come out of this deal. And if we are talking about counterfeiting and falsification, I will tell you: First of all I am an Independent MEP, sixteen we are the Independent Members, when the procedure began, nine were in favour of 'no' and seven were in favour of 'yes'. Do you know how we were represented in the committee? They went two of 'yes' and one of 'no'. Isn't that a distortion of the will of the Independent Members? That's the definition!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u157	It's a draw.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u158	Excuse me, I'll answer you and tell you, although the time runs, and it's a little short. It's done with a draw. Very good. When it is known that this is the relationship, there is also the other selection procedure. That is where he should have made the draw, made sure that he would make the choice in order to express the will of the independent Members in this committee. Because it cannot be represented as a majority in the 'yes', when the real situation is quite the opposite, that it was a 'no' majority. That's the definition of distortion. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You're going up to the Step and you're going to say your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u159	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u160	That is my view, and that is the reality, not just an opinion. If you consider it reasonable, it is the definition of distortion. We're talking about unacceptable procedures. There were brief procedures once again for such a matter, of major national importance, to discuss for two and a half days, with seven minutes when time began for each Member has come to five and we have remained fifty Members without being present, including many Macedonians. All Greeks with this agreement, but also before, when we were fighting for it not to pass, we became Macedonians. And I want as Macedonian to thank all those people who in the Macedonian struggle - and I refer to the Cretans, the Thessalonians, the Continentians, the Peloponnesians - joined the Macedonians and spilled their blood for Macedonia's freedom. They plunged the tree of freedom, but with this agreement, unfortunately, some are shaking it. With this agreement you opened the ferry for national adventures of our country, citizens, our children and the next generation. You shot off the alutism of our neighbours, who are already talking about their brothers in Macedonia. And we're talking about Macedonia one, the Greek one. So we Macedonians say, so we learned, so we grew up, and that's what we'll keep talking about. You say you've been settling loose ends for decades or settling ends for decades. This has long been maintained because no one in the past understood what was granted by this unacceptable and disastrous agreement. It has been resolved - it is supposed -. How? With concessions and national concessions, concessions in name and then in identity and language. Because it all starts with the name. From the name comes the albumination, from there comes and the national identity, which they received all, without them having to grant anything for the Greeks of origin, because you know Greeks there too. As long as one enters Wikileaks and reads there that there are Greeks. Any references to the agreement? No mention! Around two hundred and eighty thousand people are of Greek origin. No mention at all! A few days before the debate was held here in Parliament on the agreement, Nimic came out and made some statements, which even the most impartial observer read them, will understand that they are threatening. No comment has been heard. Nothing! That was the definition of the threat. You should normally smash that deal. On the contrary, you brought her here and swallowed it. Anyway. They acquire rights in the Greek EEZ. This is an assignment of national sovereignty. This requires, of course, that it had come here in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 28(2), as provided for in the Constitution on matters of major national importance. The area was called Vardarska. Here is a 1939 stamp. Historically it had nothing to do with Macedonia. "Macedonia" came from the Conference of the Seventh Communist International in 1934 with the President of the Bulgarian Demetrov, where the question of the so-called independent state, the independent Macedonian state, was raised. From there the story began and in 1944 Titus named the region "Yugoslavic Republic of Macedonia". From there they started and finally succeeded and passed, and you accepted it with this agreement. Here is this map, where the three sections appear here. And ours do you know how they have it? That it's a subspecies in Greece, our department. You know what's coming in a while. De Gaulle in the past in 1963 vetoed Great Britain's membership and said that Great Britain - we're talking about a big country - its name, because "Britania", because he has Brittany, France hides altruism. She accepted and changed it. We have not been able to impose this on Skopje. Zaev is constantly talking about "Macedonia" and nowhere about "North Macedonia". The problem is: that when we have northern Macedonia, as is mentioned here in the agreement, which is an autonomous state entity and, on the other hand, we have Macedonia, which is a geographical apartment of Greece, to the inconspicuous observer, do you know what his questions are about: So what is this geographical apartment in Greece waiting to cling to the rest? These are the questions that are created. Then there were reports about Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and they tried to say, "But there is Macedonia in Macedonia already." But the 'former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia' is not a name. If you read the explanatory statement itself, it says: "In 1991 Skopje applied for independence as an independent state, as the Republic of Macedonia." And the explanatory statement states that, with a strong reaction at the time of the government, it was the government of Kostas Mitsotakis - this was prevented and in 1993 this country was initially accepted by the Security Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Lazaridis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u162	I shall now end, Mr President, in less than half a minute. It was accepted and recommended to the United Nations Plenary Assembly - if I recall correctly - on 8 April 1993 by the provisional name 'First Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia'. In other words, this is a non-name, because 'Yugoslavic Republic of Macedonia' was also called for in the agreement, at the beginning, a reference is made as a second part with the number of the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Lazarides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u164	I'll be done in less than half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u165	You said the same thing to me a minute ago, Mr Colleague, and you haven't spoken of the bill at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u166	Now I'm just finishing up. You accused all Greeks who reacted as far-right, even Greeks from the family, unfortunately. Especially our American relatives, who are fighting for it, have accused them of the far right and the rest. In fact, at the rally the central speaker was a homosexual and I was there - as I was at all the rallys - and I had the honour of listening to his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u167	Please, Mr. Colleague, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u168	It was patriotic, full of arguments, and I'll testify to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u169	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u170	As for the bill and I close...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u171	Mr Colleague, you speak ten minutes and now you refer to the bill to close it, that is, if ever possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u172	What I want to say in closing the case of Macedonia is what our people say: whoever is sowing winds reaps storms. You have sowed storms and you will reap destruction, unfortunately for our homeland, unfortunately for the Greeks, unfortunately for our children!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u173	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too. Mrs Lebanese from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen, there is tolerance in the reasonable context. If everyone talks ten and eleven minutes, we'll be done at 9:00 a.m. without substance. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, thank you. I hope I'm here to talk about the right bill. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the controversy about the country's model of governance, about the real concept of public and national interest, about the model of society that the Greek people want continues with today's bill. This is a legislative initiative by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and the Government setting the dividing lines between the bankruptcy system and the effort of social, economic and national reconstruction implemented by the SYRIZA Government. Contrasts are many. We received a state that for decades did not know the exact number of workers in it. We have received a state where all its structures had outdated organograms and gaps that no one could capture as a whole, a state that did not know and did not want to know the real needs of its services in human resources. The governments of bankruptcy operated randomly, without a plan, with practices that established the customer relationship. The municipalities were begging, the schools were begging, the hospitals were begging, all the services addressed to the citizens were invoking the lack of people for delays in handling their cases. They were intended to require the personal intervention of the political party in order to launch solutions. Their solutions were specific with common characteristics, holding the whole hostage society, permanently intervening in the interests of the private economy. The government today is doing what is self-evident. It asks all the edifice of the Greek State to record its needs, to determine the number of people who are going to leave for a two-year long retirement period and to carry out the timely and valid planning of recruitments. It starts a time of logic for the Greek state. There is a programme, plan and order based on the needs of today and the needs that can be predicted for the next period. The important thing in this bill is not only the strengthening of the ADP. This goes without saying that it must be done in order to be able to respond to the many and necessary recruitments planned by the government. The important thing is that the Greek state acquires a programme, organisation and prepares to fully meet the needs of society. Our approach is political and is practical. In our view, public structures need to be developed, improved and overcome by private structures at every level of comparison. It is clear that despite the deliberate deterioration of the social state, public services continue to have high-quality scientific staff and potential, and each day they are improved at all levels over the last four years. The development of the public sector as a whole must also be analogous. Young people need high-skilled people with increased skills and modern skills. In order to restore confidence in the Greek State, it needs to be upgraded and the operation of all services accelerated. I understand the reactions of the neoliberal representatives in such a perspective. Whatever they are invoking, no matter what arguments and pretexts they use to convince, the truth will not invoke it. Recruitment planning will create a clear environment of expectations and hope that cannot be overturned easily. The bankruptcy policies were overturned by the Greek people's decision to give SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras as much as it hurts. This government, which perceives growth in terms of social justice, intends to absorb thousands of young people into the Greek state, replacing with plan and programming the experienced potential that has left or is going to leave. Our policy will significantly overthrow the exit of new highly qualified people from the country, not only because they will have the opportunity to work in the public sector, but above all because the number of jobseekers in the private sector will be reduced. This means that the number of unemployed will be considerably reduced. In practice, our policy will improve the economy as a whole, will significantly improve the level of the private economy, will spectacularly improve the level of living as a whole, will increase GDP and will create a continuously positive economic impact. At the same time, with the improvement of public services it will reduce bureaucracy, improve the services provided to citizens and businesses, improve the entrepreneurial environment and multiply the objective benefit of the so-called'social wage'. Citizens will see their income available to multiply directly and indirectly. A new reality is shaping. The vast majority of citizens are beginning to understand the full picture of our policies. As much as some are trying to hide the reality behind flags of convenience, slogans and cries of isolation and nationalism, a modern and effective state is built on the service of the citizen. Even the elites, who lose provocative privileges, will sometime realize that collective social prosperity, the overall proliferation of the Greek people and the participation of all citizens in social life, and growth serves themselves. They may never regain what the bankruptcy governments gave them. They may not have the provocative arrangements and services of the past, but the restoration of justice, physics and social, will eventually work in their own interests. The main difference is that we will gradually talk about the common interests of the Greek people and not about interest groups and conflicting interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u177	Thank you to Mrs Lebanese and to her consistency in time. I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr King, to develop his amendment and then continue with Mr Davaki from New Democracy. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the National Meteorological Service. The National meteorological Service shall be certified by the National Aviation Supervisory Authority to provide meteorological services. Under the Single European Sky and the European Aviation Control Agency, Eurocontrol was designated by a decision of the Minister of Transport, Infrastructure and Networks, an exclusive provider of Meteorological Services in Greece. The remaining three providers belong to the Civil Aviation Service. In accordance with Implementing Regulations 390/2013, 391/2013 of the Commission of the European Union of 3 May 2013, air navigation services are costed on an annual basis by the providers on the basis of the Eurocontrol costing principles, which then charges users of air navigation services by route and terminal. This money is deposited with the Bank of Greece on behalf of the Greek State in order to be distributed to providers of air navigation services in order to maintain the provision of high quality meteorological information. Article 5 of Presidential Decree 138/2014 stipulates that the EMI’s revenues from the Eurocontrol European Agency will now increase its budget. However, this provision was not implemented because Article 65 of Law 4427/2016 stipulates that the total revenue from the Agency will be allocated at 80% and 20% to the Civil Aviation Service, the FAO and the Civil Aviation Authority, the AAS. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the need to include the concept of the rightholders of revenue from Eurocontrol's charges of travel and end-of-life, as, although it is an equivalent provider of air navigation services, has been excluded from the beneficiaries of this revenue. It was necessary to amend Article 65 of Law 4427/2016, according to which the Civil Aviation Service and the APA are exclusive bodies managing such revenue. However, this amendment also highlighted the problem of finding an effective way of absorbing these appropriations for the benefit of the EMI. The most appropriate way was to provide for the setting-up of a new special EMI account, which will be the same manager. I think that, in our view, a necessary intervention is being completed for the National Meteorological Service, and I believe that this money is necessary for the infrastructure and is entitled to it on the basis of its contribution to the issues that have been defined by its operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Minister. Mr Davakis from New Democracy has the floor. Immediately afterwards, the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Incorporation will speak, Mr Koutsoukos and the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, and we shall continue with the list of speakers. Here, Mr Davaki, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, many of the issues of particular importance, in various important areas of public administration, come - as we all know - in the form of amendments. In other words, we have come to the conclusion that the bills are more pretexts for amendments to come. They do not regulate with nerves, I would say, how to begin with and end, but with the principle in the sense of the opinion of political intervention on issues that need to be legislated, but the amendments are coming to create this. What you have already heard from the Minister is an important - I do not disagree - interference. But we can talk for many hours about the National Meteorological Service and the problems it has for decades and is under the supervision of the Ministry of National Defence in the Air Force. There is a need for important interventions and not an amendment as it is now. In any case, Minister, it would be a good thing, especially those issues of the Ministry of Defence, which in the sport of amendments are a champion, to see them with particular sensitivity and attention. Without basically disagreement, as we have heard - because we are not familiar with the amendments which are suddenly coming to us - we should especially preside over the Ministry of Defence and the rapporteurs of each bill and all of us for these amendments which often come. Amendments relating to millions of euros are coming, beyond that, which is revenue and is another case. From this step of the House and during the debate of the Prespecies - because I see that the outcome of the debate on the Prespecies Agreement also reaches this bill - I had described the agreement and the treaty, which was signed between the Hellenic Republic and that State as unstable and unequal. In the first few days, ladies and gentlemen, this has been confirmed. Because it seems in fact that Skopje no longer has any incentive to apply what was approved a few days ago in the Greek Parliament. And now I come to the bill. I believe that this bill we are discussing is another missed opportunity to rationalise public administration and to cover some of the immediate and critical needs of the state. How else can one assess, ladies and gentlemen, provisions such as those contained in Articles 16 to 22, what is envisaged in the establishment of a new special secretariat, which will increase by about 17% the volume of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction by adding ten new units to its establishment plan? The first problem is that the establishment of this special secretariat comes only 15 months after the publication of the Presidential Decree of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, which was completed after a thorough assessment of its structures, in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of Law 4440/2016. In other words, the Ministry, which is responsible for assessing public structures, is recommended only one year and three months after the completion of the evaluation of its own structures, to set up a new special secretariat. One wonders what took place in the fifteen months and led the Ministry's political leadership to proceed with such a radical reassessment of its structures. Was the original organogram incomplete? Because if the Ministry, which is essentially competent to assess the structures of the public, made such a big mistake in assessing its own establishment plan, then you realise that broader questions are raised, which are important and extremely urgent. Or in these fifteen months has there been any new major need? That's the question. Here we come to the second problem, namely the fact that the function that this new secretariat is called upon to perform and how it is differentiated from the functions of the existing structures of the Ministry. In particular, the Government seems to argue that this special secretariat will operate as a kind of scientific arm of the Ministry, by issuing invitations to all actors to join and upgrade their administrative capacity, administrative functions and services to citizens. Nothing that has been said so far by the Coupling has convinced us that, at the moment we are talking, a clear methodology has been laid down whereby the special secretariat will implement the objective of increasing the administrative capacity of the public. So what is the cost of this government choice to add ten new units of unknown practical utility to the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction? The report by the General Accounting Office of the State also informs us that the expenditure in question may exceed EUR 1 million per year. This dry valuation, however, hides the alternative cost of setting up the special secretariat, namely what could be done if the government chose to allocate them to cover other critical public priorities. I would like to mention something that has also been mentioned in the committee during the debate, in a letter from the Pan-Hellenic Association of Workers at the Creative Employment Centres for Children. This club - and I will put forward, please, the specific document on the Minutes - together with that of workers in the centres of creative employment for children or people with disabilities represents workers in three hundred two municipal units of creative employment centres and fifty-nine municipal structures, for children or for disabled people. According to the figures in this letter, the three hundred eighty-two CSRs are serving thirty-six thousand ninety-four children between five and twelve years of age this year, while the total number of applicants this year amounted to fifty-eight thousand sixty-five children. Accordingly, three thousand eighty-eighty children, children and individuals are served in the fifty-nine CAD - ACE this year, while the total number of applicants was four thousand, fifty - eight HEADs. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Davakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have tabled this letter on the Minutes and I ask first and foremost and no matter the rest of the debate to see this, Minister, as I have asked you to do in committee, with particular attention. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, how can we say, after that, that the government is in fact interested in increasing the quality of administrative functions and services provided to citizens? We do not even need to talk about the omissions and failures of this draft law to draw this conclusion. Only the unjustified delay, beyond the two years, which has shown itself in the implementation of the digital establishment plan, i.e. the simplest and most effective electronic infrastructure for recording the whole organisation of the changes and operational costs of the public administration, is sufficient as a plausibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Davakis, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u182	I'll finish in forty seconds, Mr. President. About two years ago, I had raised the issue of the digital organigram in your predecessor, Mrs Gerovas, who even said that she would see it with great care. I see that it does not go any further, and it is a pity, because there are also detailed proposals from experienced and competent public administration people, and the country should be particularly careful in seeing the digital organogram. It is obvious, after all, that we will not be positive about voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two teachers from the 4th General School of Pyrgos (second section). The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u185	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Davakis, I imagine you are in agreement with this amendment because it concerns a long-term planning to be done and it can be done because it is also a provider. I imagine your disagreement was only in the press.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u187	I agree with what you said. Our disagreement is on the amendments...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u188	Thank you. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Koutsoukos, has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad to have a chance to welcome from Step the students of the 4th High School tower and the fellow professors. I would like to stress the importance of this educational programme of the House for our schools and for high school and high school, much more so that the tour gives pupils the opportunity to be informed about the functions of our parliamentary culture, which has always been raised not only in recent years because of the crisis, but also because there are those who are undermining it consistently to strengthen their own power, economic and extra-institutional. I shall conclude by quoting and welcoming the speeches and now coming to the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the title of this bill that we are debating today to strengthen the ASP - which is not exactly the content of the bill - enables us to refer to the major areas that the PASOK government has done in our country, which, due to the dynamics and recognition of the Greek society, are today welcomed by all political forces. I would like to remind you that PASOK, knowing about the functioning of the public administration and the pressures of the election audience on all politicians and all parties, decided to make the big cut with Minister Anastassis Pepongis in 1994 and Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou. I would like to remind you of the reactions that were then in this House, both from the conservative faction and from the logic of the loots, the so-called'spoils system', which was reflected in all the manifestations of public life, from the post-election state and then, even with the social certificates, not to mention the Bulgarian or Jube, that is to say at another time in the modern Greek state, but to refer to the recent history - as well as the traditional left, which did not support these changes and incorporated them every time in a political feasibility. This great institutional change has been fought. The first to try to undermine it institutionally was the current President of the Republic, Prokopis Pavlopoulou, with the famous interview that overthrowed the merits and then great battle took place in the House with the entire New Republic of Constantine Karamanlis of the younger. I am impressed by Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, who has served the PASOK governments, how she forgets this so easily. I don't know. She's trying to forget her story? She doesn't want to defend her? It's her thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u190	He mentioned everything. How's he forgetting about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u191	However, I would like to remind her that the government of George Papandreou in 2010, with Minister Giannis Ragosi, the first Minister of Government, restored the institutional framework of merit. Of course, Mr Ragousse also forgets them now and where he criticised us because we are not so hard on Mr Tsipras, he is now his interlocutor. That's another story, it's about him personally. But I am interested in what this party has done historically and over time to defend this recruitment system. And SYRIZA, the power he has always talked about in favour of sovereignty, transparency in public administration, has also been undermined by the ASA with the exceptional recruitments and photographic provisions. Other speakers referred earlier to their number and specific ministerial decisions. So the government is coming today to tell us that it will strengthen the AACC. We said we would vote on what has to do with the strengthening of the SAPA. However, many provisions do not have the contents they need. And I would like to remind the Minister who spoke earlier about the restoration of sovereignty and the state's ability to plan recruitment, that our country is committed to a medium-term by 2022, which also provides for the last euro for expenditure for the entire public administration. Therefore, the recovery of the sovereignty to which you referred does not exist. However, this debate enables us to refer to the changes that have remained to the conscience of the public and to the identity that they bear, as it is not just the AACC. I was listening earlier - and I was waiting for the Minister to intervene and correct her - a SYRIZA spokesman who said that we have received a state that we do not know how many employees he has. Do you forget, ladies and gentlemen, the census made by the government in 2010? The single payment register that the government did in 2010? The "Greek" systematically being circumvented? Until yesterday, in the last bill of the Ministry of Finance, we legitimized expenditure that had not been approved, because you had not posted the "Guarantee". He should have reminded you, because the Minister has passed from the Ministry of Health, e-prescription and a number of others. So, to be fair, efforts were made to reform public administration and even at times of crisis to overthrow the pathogens that have led us to the crisis. And we can be proud that they have a PASOK and Democratic Order stamp. I should like to refer to Mr Javarra, who was preceded by this step, and ask him to tell me about a flagrant reform of the New Democracy that has been left behind. But I would also like to address you now to tell us a comprehensive, substantial and effective reform. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you have fallen into the pit for others. I remember your isotope criticism of Mr Mitsotakis' assessment, which, if we are not in co-government, would also include redundancies. And I want to remind you of my position in this Chamber. So what is the reform that it has achieved? The evaluation? Do you forget that you have had to criminalize the strike of workers in the public sector, those who disagreed with the evaluation, and have you brought in a provision which excludes the evaluation of those who discipline their trade unions and strike? You guys are doing this. What is the success of the Mobility Act since you have not implemented the digital organizational and job profiles? What is the success, ladies and gentlemen, of Mr.4369/2016 presented here by Mr. Vernardakis, with a explanatory statement that we would make a selection of the Secretary-General, decoded the administration and coup d'état at the time the debate ended, changed the provision for the selection of the Secretary-General, left the Secretary-General and "were" the administrative secretaries, the Deputy Administrative Secretaries, the Secretaries-General and the Deputy Secretaries? Mr Kegeroglu mentioned this by saying that they were ninety-two. It was ninety - two additional positions in the administrative hierarchy, remaining sixty - five old. Why were the sixty - five old ones left? To qualify and pre-service, to put them after the cameras, to judge your good ones. This has led to the proclamation of positions in which we are asking for English, elsewhere we ask French, elsewhere we ask Russian, other Chinese, elsewhere in public law and elsewhere what everyone has qualified for. And you had to get the notices back. That was a disgrace to you. The Minister stylishly said so, after the remarks of the institutions that have turned the notices back to you. That's the dominance you regained. But did you succeed in selecting public administration officials on the basis of the law that you voted on here - and that was positive and we voted on it - when your ministers come here and place at the general directions decided here by the Law of Temporary Directors and Directors, by circumventing all the selection process from the service councils and evaluation? So, ladies and gentlemen, you have not made any substantial reform in public administration. I would say that you are reproducing the bad aspects of a system which we would all like to fight for. The last phenomenon is the one that got us to the hospital in Nice with the fake degrees. I remember the battle in this Chamber with the SYRIZA Members when we legally enforced the supervision of diplomas. And what they didn't tell us! That this is on the troika's orders to fire. Now, what do you say? Madam Minister, is it not in the register - which we have created and you are serving - the qualifications of this gentleman to check them out, so that you can also tell Mr. Xanthos who did not find the courage to say three words about his ministry's responsibilities? Ladies and gentlemen, therefore this bill will leave no fingerprints. The only footprint that may be left is the New Democracy conflict with SYRIZA who will make recruitments for 2019. He demanded that the New Democracy take place after the elections. SYRIZA accepted it. But that is not about the citizens. The citizens are concerned with where we will be recruiting them, what criteria we will do and how we will strengthen public administration, the public administration that we must strengthen both its development role and its social role, with merit and transparency everywhere. I would say - because the time is obviously limited - that this false record of the progressiveity of this law and the progressiveity of the new centre-right now cultivated by the government is, first of all, suppressing the great reformist and conservative policies that this government is carrying out, which are worse than those which would be exercised by a neoliberal government in New Democracy. A classic example is the tradition of public property. No Prime Minister has dared to do so. A classic example is the country's commitment to generate surpluses by 2022, amounting to EUR 57 billion. It is a classic example that you cannot solve the issue of first home, one hundred and twenty instalments, that you do not regain collective bargaining. And let us leave the transitional provision for EUR 650 when you had set the EUR 751. We have proposed to you here since 2019 that collective bargaining should take effect. What stops you from doing it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So there is no political account as to the progressiveity of your policy, but there is no link to the identity of the Central Left with the remains of the policy and the right-wing mutated and far-right, with the chair. This cannot be progressive governance, nor can it be a progressive composition of a government. To conclude, then, ladies and gentlemen, the logic of the loots, the'spoils system', which was mentioned by the late Varvaressos in his report after the Civil War and which had to be changed - and our protracting attempted to change it with great institutional changes - is continued by the SYRIZA Government, with posterity, with exceptional recruitment, with exceptional heads of authority. Unfortunately, it also continues in the exercise of economic power, because this is about the creation of a social and economic model with few and strong, by exterminating the middle class and the rest of the privileged, dependent on government policy. This can only be changed by changing political correlations, and with a government that can agree on all these changes, the reforms that will lead to a truly progressive governance in the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Vice-President of Parliament and SYRIZA MP, Christodoulopoulos, speaks. Here, Madam President, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by pointing out a happy coincidence, that the day after the announcement of the increase in wages by 11% in the private sector and the abolition of the shameful underpaid wage comes today's bill to be discussed. Until now, the words 'increases', 'intakes' were banned from the vocabulary of politics, not only because we lived under the suffocating surveillance of the memoranda, but because if the memorials were not there, the rulers of that time would have invented them. I therefore think that today the issue is being raised and the tone that goes up I do not understand what that corresponds to. It is to abolish the APA, while strengthening it. You know that during the memoranda there was a known ban of 5 to 1, that is to say, for every five departures to become an intake. Following the mid-term vote in 2016, the Government decided that in 2019, when one leaves, one will be recruited. This, along with the exit from the programs, which took place in August 2018, creates the preconditions for recruitment in key sectors of the public in crisis, because they are under-represented. That is the reason why this bill comes to strengthen the AACC so that the recruitments can be carried out in such a way that people who apply for them as citizens and not wait three years for a result because of the very few staff that the AACC now has, but also the administration to modernise, be able to plan for its needs and send to the AACC these recruitments that it plans in a single, two-year, or even longer term. I think, therefore, that we are in another section, and that is what we need to highlight. In this process, I think the arguments put forward are related to the fact that opposition is an enemy of the state and public administration. Public administration is a bad thing for them to be able to serve business interests and economic elite. The public has repudiated it. Mr Mitsotakis, as Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, I think he gave examples of writing, because then the redundancies, disciplinary and even the availability of employees, whether they were tried for any offence, whether they had or had nothing to do with their work, came on the agenda. If they had, for example. trialed for a car accident they had to leave and be made available by the public. This terrible repression, which has been unleashed, has to do with the myth of budgetary costs, which was then called Coron, and all arrows have turned towards the public sector and civil servants. These are obviously not forgotten and they are obviously afraid that, if there is a government change, these phenomena will be repeated on a massive scale. Today, then, I think it is an opportunity to discuss this precisely. They criticise the media, the WTO, various anti-population officials for the crisis that exists in some areas, such as health, education and others. But they do not say, why do they really have tails, why do there really be delays, why are there deficiencies? It is a fact that now, in this crisis situation, the majority of the Greek people have resorted to the use of public services, unlike the elite users of private services, which is why they are defending private education, private universities, private insurance - and this cosmos, in public services, actually creates crisis problems. So when the Ministry of Health established the free access of all, Greek and migrants, insured and uninsured, the hospitals did have problems in the health system. Because the incidents of people in need of medical services have increased and the money and so-called financial costs have not allowed hospitals - by pillaging with the drugs and all the competitions they have made - to meet these needs. So we are talking in a parliament where all the opposition parties consider that in August absolutely nothing was done, it was a normal day and we continue to live under the terms of Memorandums. We are talking about an opposition that is hostile to the public sector. We are talking about an Opposition that hosts civil servants and considers their number excessive on the cost of operating the state. It makes sense, therefore, in this context, that the opposition also disagrees with this draft law. We have to say something else here. There is indeed - the Minister said so - a historic route to the Greek public administration. We all know that the state, since being established and after the departure of the Bavarian rulers, has been dedicated and served the elites of that time. Then came the second stage that was conservative - to say it elegantly - state order where then the post-election state wanted to have only national-familiar civil servants. It was the so-called'state of national self-determination'. It was this particular feature of the political ideas that you had to have papers to be appointed to the public. Later, the third period of the state's bipartite dependence came, where, at some point, the PASOK brought the PASOK because it had reached border points now, both parties the New Democracy and the PASOK, filled the state mechanism with their own officials and so there was neither merit nor impartiality nor objectivity. So today, when SYRIZA tries to lay the foundations of impartiality and sovereignty in command, everyone disagrees. These are the paradoxes. Because we have seen here that most Members of Parliament have said their poorness about the Macedonian, everyone has said his poorness about it being the PASOK that has done the big sectors, and now all the others who came from PASOK deserve nothing. That is, everyone is pulling out their existential dramas here. Indeed, we are living at a time when rationalization and manicheism have prevailed in the political scene. Especially when it's an election period, these two phenomena take monster dimensions. So what do they say today? They say SYRIZA wants to appoint his own. How will he appoint them, gentlemen? Are you afraid SYRIZA's hiring will do it? I think you're well afraid. Because, indeed, the ASA, upgraded, will work in 2019 and the government will be SYRIZA. That is why the civil servants who fear redundancies, but also those who aspire to become civil servants, with their vote, will send you to the illusions you have made. To conclude, let me say that, in fact, we, as the Left, consider that the independent authorities are an example of neoliberal management. The State, as part of its ‘private’, granted public authority to the independent authorities. You know, when neoliberalism is defeated - because it will be defeated - there will be many political parties and political forces calling for public functions to come back to the state, i.e. the state to control canals and not to be afraid and to give power to the National Broadcasting Council, because the canalarchs will shoot the governments. To keep in mind that the AACC will be held for many more years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u194	Madam President, please, if you will, you will conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u195	Until the Greek state obtains a presumption of innocence, presumption of impartiality and presumption of sovereignty, the AACC will truly constitute a barrier to the partyisation of the state, to the partyisation of the public, so that the children of all Greeks have a legitimate ambition to work in the public sector and not to close the doors from the “men”. I remember - and I close with it - that the New Democracy has been monopolizing recruitment for years. When the PASOK came out, because it obviously made recruitments too, they started talking about green guards with defiance, because as then, he thought the state was his loot. Now both, who think that the state is their spoil, have united and denounced SYRIZA that it has been recruited. And what example do they bring? The post-mortem employees. People don't know what it is. So let us say that post-mortem employees are people recruited by MPs and ministers for advisory work, which they need and which obviously have to have the element of confidentiality, the element of knowledge, the element of confidence. They've thrown it all together so they won't say a single good word about SYRIZA. So miserable speech of counterpopulation for what SYRIZA brings, I think it's the big problem of political life today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u196	Thank you. The Minister for Finance has the floor, Mr Tsakalotos, to develop an amendment, and immediately after that is Mr Pratsolis. Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me for a minute before the amendment, to say a sad news about New Democracy. And it is particularly regrettable that Mr Vorides has only one colleague holding his hand on him as I make this announcement. I warned - you know - for some time now - in both committees and in plenary that it is good for the New Democracy and the rest of the Opposition not to put all its eggs in the same basket that we will not go out on the market. It had failed their strategy that we would not get out of the memorandum and the strategy that pensions would be reduced. And I had tried - because you know how much I respect the Opposition - to tell them not to make the same mistake for the second time. Today I have to tell you that our successful version is closed. We took out a five-year bond of 2.5 billion at a 3.6% interest rate and a coupon of under 3.5%. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] These 2.5 billion are 36% of our total demand for 2019. You'll have seen to DPRK that the plan for market exits was 7 billion and we made 2.5 billion. The most important thing, perhaps, of all that I'm telling you is - when you see the participation of investors - that it starts a major shift from hedge funds to normal investors. In other words, you will see from this publication that Greece is changing category. I am not happy with the sadness of my fellow Members, and I am not happy with the following speech: I consider it to be a mistake for our political scene to be hailed. And I hope that in the next nine months you will be able to invest in a strategy that will not make you sad about all the good news about the Greek economy and the Greek society. I shall now go to the amendment, Mr President. It is excluded from the scope of Chapter I of this Law and from the legal person under private law named KEPE, ‘Centre for Planning and Economic Research’. As we know, Law 3429/2005 concerns the status, organisation and functioning of public enterprises and organisations. Article 19 of the Law provides for the exclusion of certain private-law companies and legal persons from its scope. The exceptions, of course, are very few. For example, bodies such as the CFO and the EIF are excluded, because of their nature and the necessary flexibility they must have, or bodies with special social interest, such as the Anti-Narcotic Agency, the OECD as we know it, and the Center for the Treatment of Degraded Persons. Another category of exceptions is the research and technological bodies which are subsidised and supervised by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs' General Secretariat of the Ministry of Research and Technology and the research centres set up under Law 1514/1985 'Development of scientific and technological research'. Just because the JRC is similar to the other research centres, we consider it appropriate to be treated the same way and thus to exclude this from the n. 3429/2005. This does not mean that there are no obligations of the body. It's just giving more flexibility. Thank you very much, be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Pratsol has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Immediately after Mr Gilolas, Mr Lappas, I will give the floor to Mr Vorides, so that only SYRIZA colleagues can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u199	I don't mind. Let them speak two or three SYRIZA colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u200	Three colleagues have announced, Mr Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u201	... to have time to assimilate the consequences of shock.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u202	Mr Pratsol has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a common phenomenon here in front of the positive measures, not just to be embarrassed, but also to 'fly the ball on the platform'. It appeared from the speech of the House, but also from a day marked by the increase in the minimum wage, the abolition of the shameful and racist wage, I would say, of an underprivileged wage, but also the latest news that the Minister of Finance has told us about the country's exit into the markets, which, if I remember correctly, in his last speech Mr Mitsotakis had almost excluded us from the market, saying that we are not going to go out on the market. And we went out with an interest rate which, if I remember again, is the best of the last decade. And now I come to the bill. Public administration in our country has been ineffective for many years, mainly for reasons of political feasibility. It was served by the client state, which had built on the philosophy of ruffles and favorable rulership. There have always been institutional gaps in recruitment, travel, and in the development of civil servants so that politicians can play games. It should, of course, be pointed out that completely contrary to this long-established concept was the establishment and operation of the AACC, which has finally laid down rules and established meriting criteria for recruitment. However, pathogenesis and distortions are many. Then, in the years of the crisis, the story of the superfood public was invented for budgetary reasons. Today's Chief of Officerial Reconstruction and then Minister of Administrative Reconstruction proceeded to the top "reform" - because there is no reform but it! - to the disposal and redundancies. No institutional intervention has been attempted to make the public better and more effective. All that was interested was in cutting heads for purely budgetary reasons. This has led to a weakened and debilitated public administration with feared officials and even worse services to citizens. One more thing. Because many speak of a party state that stands, in December 2014, that is, one month before they leave and mediated the pre-election period, Mr. Mitsotakis, the proponent of merit, proceeded to the appointment of directors to the public with just one criterion: the party origin of candidates. Even today, after ten years of deep crisis and a great deal of government subsistence, it announces that it will reintroduce rule 1 to 5, namely an intake for every five departures, which was in place in budgetary suffocation in the country. And now we have the possibility of 1 to 1, that is to say an intake for each departure, which our Government certainly intends and will do. It wants to further reduce the public sector with a view, of course, to assigning its critical functions to the private sector, so as to fuel the well-known state-owned entrepreneurship. This practically means excluding the renewal factor of the already elderly public and also that, instead of nine thousand people corresponding to recruitment for 2019, a thousand ninety people should be recruited, according to the New Democracy. The hypocrisy of the Members of the New Democracy and of KINAL who, on the one hand, are asking questions and complaining about the shortcomings in teachers and doctors and, on the other, sabotage the recruitments is unbelievable. Let's tell us what magic wand these gaps exist in these two neuro-algal social areas will be covered. Ladies and gentlemen, from the outset we have had a completely different approach. We believe that the driving force to upgrade the public is the people who serve in it. With the development and operation of an integrated human resources management framework, the right foundations for the necessary changes are laid, but the renewal is achieved by exploiting new technologies and innovation. In this direction since 2015, priority has been given to overthrowing the injustices committed by the laws of the New Democracy. With Law No.4325/2015, the government put an end to the availability and redundancies and restored labour peace and security. Immediately thereafter, an integrated administrative reconstruction plan was drawn up in which major reforms were carried out. Under Law4369 the National Register of Executive Officers was established, the System of Promotions and Selection of Heads and rules of transparency and integrity were introduced for the first time. The transparent and simplified mobility process was established by Law 4440/2016. We are already at the stage of the third cycle of mobility with a great deal of involvement from the partisan point of view, as well as from the officials themselves. For the first time, modern tools, such as job contours and digital organograms, are used, which guarantee non-discriminatory procedures. The bill we are debating today is the natural continuity, yet another link in the chain of these institutional changes. The aim is to effectively operate the public, strengthen and strengthen the public, to translate digital and to serve it. A system of multi-annual and annual strategic plans for the recruitment of scheduled and seasonal staff is provided for. Recruitment will be carried out by the AACC through simplified and rapid procedures. The AACC is upgraded to meet the current requirements. The Advisory Council is set up at the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. Public Administration Observatory is hereby established. It is planned to organise a Technical Support Service for Public Administration Bodies to implement reforms and upgrade their operation. Ladies and gentlemen, with the amending provisions between the improvements provided for, whether in the Civil Service Code or in the Mobility Act, they are also the following, which show the clear social footprint of this government and the sensitivity it displays in the direction of removing injustices and inequality. Provision is made for an automatic check of the appointing or recruitment impedance through the human resources register. The requests sent by entities to the Central Mobility Committee for the coverage of transfer or secondment posts should indicate the total organic positions for the requested industry, as well as the total vacancies in the requested industry. Mothers who have a child of adoption are already entitled to a three-month maternity leave in line with the three-month period in force for natural mothers. The licence is now extended to the foster father. This three-month leave will also be granted to the parent and to the parents who have a child under the parental leave procedure. Foreign language knowledge is not required for the recruitment of persons with deafness or gravitation, who hold the certificate of adequacy of the Greek sign language and have at least 50% disability. The age limit for postgraduate training for officials is abolished and a number of other measures are taken, of which I will refer to as follows, which concern many people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The overtime of seconded officials of the local government bodies I and II degrees seconded to the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction to be made available to offices of MPs or Members of Parliament are now paid by the Ministry. Article 26(2) expressly gives the staff member the possibility of posting or transfer for health reasons relating either to himself or to members of his family, in particular, the spouse or formerly affiliate to the applicant. Ladies and gentlemen, the design and support of a functioning, transparent, efficient public administration means, not only upgraded services to the citizen, but also a depth of democracy in a society that, after the adventures of the crisis, deserves to look at the future with greater optimism and less suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. He has the floor as a member of SYRIZA Mr. Ioannis Giolas for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the prediction bill has been wronged for the modernisation of public administration. I shall therefore, in particular, refer to these provisions, without, of course, making any assessment of what has been heard, at least, about the articles and purposes of this legislation. In this draft law, the Government, above all, seeks to continue modernising the public administration in the direction of state reconstruction. In particular, it strengthens and upgrades public administration to make it simpler, citizen-friendly, effective and independent. It does, however, also take measures that restore problems and also malfunctions in the management of human administrative staff. Finally, it upgrades, strengthens and simplifys the work of the IASC without making a slight reduction to the basic rules governing its operation, i.e. transparency, impartiality and evaluation on the basis of objective and merital criteria that ensure equality and law. On the opposite side of this constant effort, initiated by our Government since 2015 by taking measures to improve the system, Anti-Policy faced these initiatives with suspicion to a visible reaction. Was her conduct justified? No, of course not. It has been the New Democracy that has been going on for decades, followed by the subsequent rulings of PASOK, in the appointment with the well-known tactics of the selection with party and rhyspheological criteria for the directors-general. Last example, December 2014, just a few days before leaving the government. Instead, it was our Government that maintained them to avoid any disturbance and concern to public administration and staff. It was our Government that, in the selection of the coordinators in the decentralised administrations of the country in early 2015, for the same reason and in order to avoid the slightest suspicion of partyism, it chose to promote those who hold the highest hierarchical position in the administration. However, the reactions of the two parties that ruled the country from Postpopulation until 2014 were predictable and expected, because you had imposed a "normality" that was based on the favourable treatment of your superiors and the promotion of your own children with party and rouspheological criteria. This normality we have chosen to overthrow. Thus, we have targeted and institutionalised the evaluation choices to be made on objective, meritful and impeccable criteria. We are, therefore, those who have therefore established with L.4319/2016 the absolutely transparent and aptitude-based system of the establishment of the National Register of Officials of Public Administration that ensures the promotion and selection of the most skilled and efficient executives, without embodying the criteria of partyism and the anxiocratic selection of your friends, virtues and other favoured ones. In fact, New Democracy is looking for advances in sins, when, through its rapporteur, it supported, in order to reduce the value of the choice of officials, the merits of reaching the two or three finally chosen by the Minister until then. However, we are not told by these thirty who have finally been chosen by what body they have chosen. Was it a mixed instrument by PWN officials? From members of the AACC? From senior judges, judges? Yes or no? So, did we continue what you did? Anyone because he was the favoured child of the system? Finally, we also introduced a clear, transparent procedure for the mobility of civil servants with Law 4440/2016, so that they would also eliminate the usual phenomena of transfers, movements, transfers, distractions that concern them and the only guidance and criterion was the re-service of the "days". On the contrary, we are the ones who gradually and with the introduction of advanced digital applications of the digital establishment plan we help those employees who want and qualify, have the transparent and merital tool to move to the body and to the place they want to understand. Indeed, this was an attempt to reduce the value, but the applications themselves of five thousand three hundred employees who participated in the last form of mobility prove the confidence shown by the officials and how their mobility should eventually be done. It is necessary, however, before I refer to the specific arrangements of the draft, to respond to some ordinary, trivialised, caramel, we would call them, except unjustified and unequivocal objections from the New Democracy to the so-called enlargement of the public sector, the great state to you and the fact that we are supposedly building a state hostile to the businessman and, by extension, the citizen. For your first argument, the official figures, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, the obsession and the ideality of yours for the growth of public policy, others say. The number of civil servants has decreased to five hundred sixty-sixty-sixty-seven hundred with figures in March 2018. At the same time, the number of contractors paid by the state budget remains stable, as is shown also by official figures indicating: December 2014: a gap was ignored. December 2015: forty-eight thousand eighty-four. October 2017: forty-seven thousand four hundred seventy-two. Where's the excess number of civil servants? For the second novel about a state hostile to the businessman and business, we are the government that established the start up process of setting up businesses in a simple and fast way. We are the government that exhausts and breaks all the records of the absorption of Community resources and aid, primarily directed at production. We are the ones who have exhausted every effort to survive bankrupt operations - let us remember the supermarkets 'Marinopoulos' with the eleven thousand workers - in order to keep them alive, so that they can continue to work for the benefit of their own entrepreneurship and employees. We are constantly expanding the cycle of entrepreneurship by extending many basic infrastructure networks such as the TAP gas pipeline in northern Greece, the expansion and interconnection of PPC's network in Crete and the Aegean islands. May I remind you of the completion of the national main network with a reduction in the price of the contracts? We are the ones who promote the 'I save at home' programme and will soon also be in the public sector and much more. To avoid overlooking and reducing the value of the legislation being passed, I will make a selective reference to some reforms that may seem simple, simple or easy, but in practice they will be of great benefit and efficiency in the public sectors. The first is the decongestion achieved through the AACC, where the examination of the documents of the staff members includes only the number of posts declared plus a percentage of 50%. Have we raised it, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u206	We increased it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u207	Furthermore, it is the known story of the 3K notice with the eight thousand and sixty-six jobs in the area of cleanliness, for which we have been making great efforts and for which more than one-stop applications have been submitted, a hundred to thirty thousand applications totalling them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u209	I'll be out of here in a minute. So these have been known to have been delayed months. With the simplified and accelerated process it could well evolve and be completed in a shorter time. Who can disagree with the four-year recruitment planning? The third and last example is the package of measures for the internal proper functioning of the administration, but also the taking of social measures for the officials themselves. Prior to the speakers, and by our Parliament, we have referred to the granting of parental leave, the savings of study permits for all officials uniformly, the abolition of the age limit for postgraduate education, because, unfortunately, our employees are an age-old total with an average of fifty-five years of age, but they can and must be relocated and offered to the administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u210	Finish it, Mr. Giola.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u211	Finally, the taking of simple and fair measures to improve the disciplinary procedure and, in particular, that the staff member conducting the EES to provide the evidence and the evidence of assurance must have grade A and not B, as well as the introduction of the indicative period of three months so as not to prolong the disciplinary exercise with the necessary and, unfortunately, disproportionate defence of the staff member that he must maintain the presumption of innocence and not go to the bells.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Gillola, please. You've been over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u213	We are therefore improving, ladies and gentlemen, and modernising public administration in order to become a pillar of fair growth, promoting the necessary productive reconstruction with surely stable steps and areas that will make it a citizen's aid and a partner in the correction of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Giola. Mr Vorides has the floor from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first bill we are discussing and which the government is now proposing as a parliamentary minority. I am saying this - I understand that the reaction is already beginning - because, according to law in this Chamber, when the voting of the groups is registered, as expressed by their parliamentary representative, we believe that the parliamentary representative is expressing the whole of the parliamentary power of each group. That's right. We agree on that. So the SYRIZA parliamentary group today is a hundred forty-five. No others are counted. It's a hundred forty-five. We expect, Mr Fokas, to see whether you support the bill or not, because without the support of the ANELs - six - there is no majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u216	Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u217	In the whole Parliament, this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u218	Throughout this House, because the Golden Dawn voted against, the New Democracy voted against, the Change Movement voted against, the Communist Party of Greece voted against, the Central Association has said "present". I'm very careful. I know everything. Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u219	We know them, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u220	I barely know about it. I don't know if I know so much, but all these years here, I know. So until now, the crucial vote - I stress, Mr Fokas - in all the articles is the vote of the ANELs and we expect to hear it, Mr President. What is not voted on is rejected by Parliament and this is a good start to a practice that we will have from now on, after you have decided to continue to govern as a parliamentary minority. I hope, therefore, that we are all clear on this point. My dear Mr Chakalotos left, whom you know I like because he has this British hue in his speech, to tell him about his celebrations: 'too little, too late', very little, too late. Why too little, too late? Because, first of all, it is positive, of course, that the country has managed to borrow. If I remember correctly, the previous exit to the markets, for which you also celebrated it, was a year ago. But that's not what it's called normality. Normality is said when you are systematically borrowed from the markets, not when you borrowed one moment and then spent a year in which to redeem yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u221	Colleagues, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u222	I'm not bothered by my colleagues. I'm used to this environment, so I'm fine. I don't want you to discipline them, barely. Secondly, Portugal has borrowed 1% on a similar basis, while you celebrate - if I have listened well - for 3.8%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u223	The 3.6%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u224	The 3.6%. So, with more than multiple amounts, you have had to lend a limited amount of money to what Mr Tsakalotos referred to - why? - because if you asked for more, you would create nervousness on the markets and therefore go to even higher interest rates. And why did you ask for limited money? Why were you incapable of entering the quantitative relaxation that entered from 2015 to 2018 all countries except us on your own responsibility. So I understood Mr Tsakalotou's celebrations. In despair, in fact, you must say something. But now that he's brought us in such a difficult position that Georgios has to hold my hand to take it, I can't imagine. But let's go to the bill. Let me make one comment first. It is your right, but I make a very strong request to all of you: mocking patriotic sensitivity, characterizing it as an existential drama among Members, when it comes to the overwhelming agreement that has been passed, is a great deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u225	And you are going too far to tell us national brokers in Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u226	No, I actually said 'national moderation'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u227	Yes, very good!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u228	Minority - to be fully informed, because you are all perfectly familiar with the Greeks - is less than that. There's a winner who gives something more and a shareholder who gives something less. We have developed you three days here because the agreement you have voted on is something less than even what you considered to be a national line, regardless of whether for one of us there are thoughts on this line. I'm coming to the bill very quickly. First, stop practicing about the sovereignty and the relevant public, when you have taken off these notices that have fallen down in the way they went down, which were fiercely photographic, and that is why they have been taken down and you have withdrawn them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u229	Three.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u230	My colleagues, if you'll excuse me. I have read you from this Step - and I do not want to repeat it - how you described the position with the Russian language in a special notice. We're talking about a regular comedy! And you come and go here for the integrity of your policy! Or I heard it's not - it's supposedly important - that I heard it from someone before - the timing of recruitment planning. Of course it matters, because it unfolds a whole strategy on how the public is developing, what you choose. So, of course, it is important how it will be done, how it will be organised, in what respects, with which priorities. Of course it does. And it's not a question whether ASA will do them now or then, the ASA will always do them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have some more time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u231	Yes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much. Because I would then like to raise a specific issue, for which there is a negative position of Parliament's Scientific Committee, and I would like to explain that it is wrong in this matter. So, obviously, this is a matter of importance. Like the truth, your philosophy is completely unfolding on the issue of the public with these introductions that you are doing here. Are you voting in this House, ladies and gentlemen, on a EUR 1 million charge, to create another special secretariat, which will be served with twenty organic staff - a board of experts - with ten organic permanent staff, to do what is not done already? And if it wasn't already, why didn't it happen? And what's the plugin? And indeed - to revise a review - it is not that you are simply abolishing a structure, which was the Observatory, but you do not explain why you are abolishing it in this context. Why has this structure not worked, voted on by you? I'm sorry, but it was your legislation. Are you now coming to make it more expensive in this context, why? What is the criticism you have made of yourself that you voted for this structure, did not work on it, do you abolish it to bring this? That is your philosophy of administrative reform: shapes on schemes, structures on structures, organic positions on organic positions, expenditure on expenditure, without any justification for their operation. I'll be in one last. On one of the few issues we agreed on is to support the amendment tabled by my colleague Mrs Theleritis, which concerns a specific issue, the hydronomists issue, which the Communist Party of Greece has been interested in, if I recall correctly, by means of appropriate parliamentary control. Am I right? Watch out. I now hear that there is a criticism from the Scientific Council of Parliament, Mr President and colleagues, which says that this provision may be unconstitutional, because it removes the possibility of controlling these recruitments from an independent administrative authority. Obviously the Scientific Council for Full Development is not up to date, and the truth is that Mrs in her explanatory statement could not expose all the real and legal facts that are of interest here, because there would be a big report. What's the story? These particular people are hired, not many - if I remember well, they are a twenty - in the EEAS as hydronomers. They are recruited and considered by the AACC. No, I don't think ASA is conducting the competition. Recruitment is carried out in HSY. A formal check of legality shall be made by the AACC. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. A section of the AACC, the section which examines it, finds there are some typical issues and rejects recruitment. According to the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice has jurisdiction to rule on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion. It shall be the court of appeal and shall be entitled to the AACC. He's judging the civil court, and he's righting the workers. He appealed against the AACC against the decision of the Civil Court, went to the court of appeal and was entitled to the appeal. He appeals against the decision of the Court of Appeal in the Argentine Ice and the workers are entitled to the Areo Ice. Now listen. This is a story of madness for the citizens. These people still don't have a formal intake. They say: "After our vindication of the Arena Ice, can we finally be recruited properly?" A question arises to the Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Administrative Reform, who is the competent legal adviser for the ASP: “What should we do?” Asks the AACC to go to the Supreme Special Court, because we have contradictory judgments of administrative and political courts. He says, "No, we don't have to go. It is clear that the recruitment will go ahead." The story stands there, because no one can go anywhere anymore and these people come and say: "Children, we will be hired, since we have a decision of the Ice Arena to be hired." The Scientific Council could not have known that story.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Voridis, if you'd like, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u234	It is therefore right that the initiative, which is correct, is the amendment, is to resolve an extreme issue of the suffering of workers, who, with an absolute decision, are unable to resolve this issue. We absolutely must move on to this. There is no question of unconstitutionality. It's been checked by S.H.I.E.L.D., it's not that it's not done. Legislative power intervenes to solve an acute social issue which has been put into the bureaucratic process for so many years now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u235	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u236	So, Mr President - and I thank my fellow Members for their tolerance - we say this. We are obviously voting against this bill in principle, because it reflects all the vulnerability of the government's administrative philosophy. And, Mr. Fokas, we are anxiously waiting to hear whether ANELs mean what they say or divorce prove to be in a position. It's the first crack test. We'll see if the government can vote for bills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, gentlemen, come on! Mr Vorides, because I have the Minutes, Mr Fokas said that "we are talking about a bill that finds us in all positive, except Articles 15, 19 and 20."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u238	That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u239	What's with them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u240	I say this because the committee has said that it is in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of Greeks, twenty-seven students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 1st General School of Patras. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Lappas has the floor. Immediately after the speech, the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, will have. Here, Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Two images of two prominent officers of Officerial Response: Mr. Javaras came here in Step full of grief. He was so sad by the provisions and the philosophy of the bill, I don't know what to answer. I remember a verse of Hatzidakis from a song: "The great gar of sorrow gives rise to insanity", because it was actually insane, when he denounced the majority MPs that in the vote the day before ratification we had a vote unrecognized. Uh, this is a direct complaint, a denial and a slander against Members of the Greek Parliament, who in any case - we do not say anything different - vote as the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament impose, according to their conscience. It's over and out. And don't listen to that in the Greek Parliament again. One of this. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Ladies and gentlemen, I read the bill very well, and it's a little on our agenda. It's legal. I read an article in a daily paper on this bill and said this and I fully adopt it: 'Images from the future: A public administration that functions unnecessarily. Services cut and sewn to the needs of the citizen. Public service hierarchy based on normality. Images of clean evaluation with people who do their job well and there are many of them in our "bad" public. Don't be twisted with the back against the wall. Do not feel that they are fools who pay for the inappropriateness, indifference or responsibilities of the "smart" with the strong backs, of the "barbas in Koroni" that is, with the citizen sure that he will not run with his topics "from Anna to Kaiafa", that he will not be forced or able to pay "fast", convinced that his taxes, which he will pay honestly, will take place. This post does nothing but want to describe what we say as philosophy in the bill and, more generally, as the Left, that in fact the provision of public services must be at such a level that it is in return for what the citizen or businessman or ordinary citizen is paying for their establishment and operation. I hear from the representatives of the Greater and Elassian parties that they have had a terrible and terrible public administration for these days. So, listen from a conference held in 2009 in Rethymnon, from the University of Athens, from the University of Crete and from the EMCDDA I think. In 2009, an official, heavi name, the President of the Council of State of France Edward Jeffrey. I will tell you after the name of what he says: 'It is a common place that the public administration fails to meet the needs of the times and the expectations of the citizens. Its intrinsic weakness becomes more visible in the modernised globalised environment, where the rules for the functioning of power relations are becoming increasingly universal and the requirements for an immediate response are growing drastically. This is an extremely complex and demanding environment, in which rationalisation, flexibility, historical knowledge and training are, as ever, a prerequisite for the effectiveness of administrative action." Apostle Papaconstantinou, Doctor of Constitutional and Administrative Law. That was a part of his introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that first of all we must start with the Constitution. In Articles 103 and 104, there is the constitutional dimension of the legitimacy of public administration, which means that it must be based, not on democracy, on transparency, on good administration. All those principles laid down in the Constitution, such as the democratic principle, the value of man in Article 2, the social rule of law, and even the separation of powers and equality, must be exploited. I must tell you that the public administration must have legitimacy in the modern world. Madam Minister, your partners and we all know that legalisation is not a sound word, it is legalisation of results. If the public administration does not produce concrete, visible results, it does not have legalisation because it does not meet the needs of the citizens and their expectations to a large extent. So this Greek public administration since the 1950s has never had legalization, because it has not had legalized results, so that citizens do not have high-level services, but are also increasingly out of the political point of view and the political system. What the public administration crisis eventually means also a crisis of civilisation and democracy. This goes on to do every bill that we bring from 2015 onwards, that is to say to restore elementary castings of credibility and honor, what we call a political system and public administration. I have heard Mr Javarra say to us that nothing is convinced of what the report and the provisions of the law say. Because he is a man studying the scriptures, I would tell him that what the bill is doing today in Greece is done by the European states for two hundred years, adopting Verber's logic and perception, which speaks of a non-partyised and neutralised public administration. These are the bills from 2015 to today. One by one. They are all a vote in the mosaic of our conception of public administration. He says Mr. Javarras, I have heard Mr. Vorides, that the Observatory is already provided, he says, for the law, and the Minister should know that. I take this as a deepest insult to the Minister responsible to say that a Member of the Greek Parliament does not know that the Minister is provided for in another bill. But Mr Javarras did not come to the committee to hear what exactly our Minister and rapporteurs explained, that is to say, why the Observatory's forecast is repeated and this bill. And we're telling you to understand it. That is our view. The Observatory is indeed provided for in the Law of 2016. But now, ladies and gentlemen, we consider it to be more important. It is a vote, an essential element to complete the philosophy of this bill. The Observatory, together with the other provisions, with the Special Secretariat, with the Advisory Board, with technical support, is a whole and has been adequately explained by both our rapporteur and the President. So why is the reproach - on the limits of the dispute - of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to the relevant Minister, that he is not supposed to know that the Observatory is also provided for in another legal provision? But it is well known, it has been discussed in committee. So we return the charges and the insinuation. Mr President, because I see time running and it is ruthless, you know very well, Minister, and your partners and we know that it is public administration that is the public space that Hambermas says, which is mediated between the state and society. That is exactly where public opinion is being developed and cultivated. So what a good or bad opinion he thinks, as illustrated and expressed for the public administration, is precisely this public space, how we cultivate it, how we deal with it and how we evaluate it. I think, therefore, that this very public space wants this bill to meet and meet both the respective demands of public opinion and the expectations of citizens. And with the recommendation of the Observatory, but above all - I forgot to say - the most important thing, the core of the philosophy of the bill is the multiannual planning of recruitment to the Greek public for the first time. That's the point. That's why Mr. Javarras, I don't see anyone talking about a strategic arrangement. Because he has learned in terms of short, timely, and satisfying demands of a ruptured nature. He has not learned to understand and face a bill of such a strategic nature. That's why he can't figure it out. That's their problem, that's not their problem with the bill. I shall conclude, Mr President, with one comment. He said before Mr. Voridis that the majority of SYRIZA is no longer a majority. We have to tell him that Parliament's citizens, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, have security differences for many issues and many problems. So do not worry, and this House will also find out how to satisfy this bill's vote. Don't worry, we won't let it go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u243	Four days have passed since the treasonal agreement that was passed in this Four days have passed, and what we hear all the time on the phones that people take us into the streets or where we go is whether there is a way to stop this abortion, this disgrace, which has been voted on, by the way, a hundred and fifty three MPs, who actually represent only about 20% of the Greek people. This is the modern Greek democracy. A hundred and fifty three MPs elected with lies in the Greek Parliament, who came with other parties, who left the other parties that were opposition and who were now coming to the party of coup d'état, came by saying other things to their voters, they did, they voted, and without informing anyone about the treason that will take place, they voted and gave the name and soul of our Macedonia. So people ask, because they have no confidence either in the New Democracy or, of course, in any other party to the Opposition, if the Golden Dawn can do something to stop this agreement even now. We give them our word that in the Golden Dawn we will do everything in our power, both within Parliament and outside Parliament, alongside the Greek citizens, to stop this. Let's not forget that Golden Dawn objected to unconstitutionalism on Friday when we voted on this abortion. The opposition parties there, above all their ideology and the enmity they have against the Golden Dawn rather than the good for our country, not the good for Greece, did not support this objection of unconstitutionality, which, if they voted, would not have reached this point today. Prior to the objection of unconstitutionalism, they rejected the proposal of our Chief of Staff Nikos Michalliakos, who said that we are also calling on the New Democracy and the PASOK - KINAL - or whatever it is called - and the other parties, which did not accept the Prespecies Agreement, to resign their MPs. We had made our promise that we would do so and that would dissolve this debate that is currently called the Greek Parliament and that the Prespecies' Agreement would not be voted on. That was not accepted by the Opposition either. So we come to a third proposal today, taking advantage of every word and every line of the Constitution of our country and the law in force. So we have and say: According to Article 44(2)(2) and (3) of the Constitution, we read: 'Previously, the President of the Republic is called upon by a decree and by a decree and by a decree adopted yet, which regulates serious social issues, apart from budgetary matters, if this is decided by 3/5 of all Members of Parliament, on a proposal of 2/5 of the whole and as laid down by the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the law implementing this paragraph'. So, if today, in three hundred and twenty Members of Parliament are voting for this motion for a referendum tabled by the Golden Dawn, the House is obliged to discuss this issue and if there are a hundred and eighty Members, we can even at that time create a referendum in our own country and cancel the Ambassadors' agreement, because of course the Greek people, who are against this betrayal agreement, are over 80%. This is what is afraid of SYRIZA - ANEL’s coexistence, because it is for me that it is still for me, because they have not been thrown by ANEL’s 'costs'. They just made a virtual "divorce", as has been pointed out. This is where everyone is able to react. As far as we all remember, those who did not vote for the Prespecies Agreement on Friday were a hundred forty-seven Members. We are therefore once again tabling this proposal. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This has been e-mailed to all Members of the Greek Parliament - they have seen and read it all - has gone to the President of the Greek Parliament, Nikos Voutsi, and has gone to the secretaries of all the groups, not to say that he did not know. So let's see you here! Will you vote a hundred and twenty, surpassing your ideoscopy, overcoming any differences - ideological and political - do we have? If you want, let's take it one step below. We have tabled this motion for a referendum today. We reminded you, if you don't know it, but we gave it to the world to find out if you didn't want to give it to the world to find out. We are prepared, because you are very confuse with the Golden Dawn, if you want, to bring it to you in New Democracy or anyone else who wants, and we promise that we will vote if that is not officially from us. We are prepared to do so, in order to show here and to all those who are listening to us, who love Greece and who live from Greece, who love our country, who love our country and who are taking advantage of our country, and who are the opposition of the New Democracy and PASOK - who have been begging for this shameful agreement to pass through the coup d'état of SYRIZA, the ANEL and the others. Because they knew very well that if this agreement did not go through there, they would be completely naked, because they would have to go through and ratify it after a few days. That's the reality. So behold, Rhodes, behold, and fuck. Vote on this and we are ready to lead the situation to a referendum, what all the Greek people want and what all the democrats you are talking about about about people's sovereignty, about the law of democracy, about the opinion of the many who must prevail. But the most important point we are discussing at the moment, you are in complete contrast with 80% of Greek citizens. So you have no right to talk about democracy again. You are the one who made the karelli Constitution, you, who, in the summer of 2015, dared to propose and ask for a referendum and because you did not like the decision of the Greek citizens, shaved this referendum and "no" turned it into "yes". That was the first and most scary thing you've ever done. The second comes now, these days, on the subject of the agreement and betrayal of our Macedonia, in which of course you do not dare resort to the crisis and vote of the Greek people. This is your democracy. Rejoice her. This democracy will be fought with all our powers. So we see that here there is slowly and as long as the time goes - and that is why SYRIZA is not going to leave until the last day it is entitled to be in the chairs - the establishment of a deep state of SYRIZA. The New Democracy didn't know when it was taken over, and it realized that this was happening, because they've been asking for elections for two and a half years, when they didn't see that SYRIZA created a deep regime, which now has tentacles in justice, security bodies everywhere. So we see today you democrats, who were once struggling with the youth and talking about the young children who took occupations in their schools and fought and striving for things they were fighting for, be the ones who are enthusiastic about all the occupations that are taking place in the schools. Why? Because the media doesn't show them well and they don't call them well. And because they are guided by everything that Greek citizens learn, to inform the Greeks who are listening to us that at the moment in Greece, in Macedonia, in Crete, in Thessaly, in various regions of Greece are too many schools, mainly high schools and high schools, in occupation on the subject of Macedonia's betrayal. That's what we're talking about, so we know what's going on. We'll be next door. We welcome this attitude of the students, the patriots, the Greek students and we will support these children as long as we can. We'll support these kids. And I told you some other time than the Step of the House that the "Macedonian", whatever you do, will be what will end your political career. Now you've done it and voted for it. I would advise you all to keep this unacceptable picture released on all the sites and newspapers after your shameful vote, which you should have bend your heads and gone home without speaking, you are here, you are charmed and applauding for having spent a hundred and fifty three votes. You're pleased Friday. Hold this after five, ten years, to see your children, to see your relatives, to see it yourself and remember then, what the world will call you and where you will be. You'll be in the worthless basket, because that's where you'll be thrown your bosses, who have taken advantage of you and done their job now, and you won't dare smell out of your house. You'll be damned by the Greek people. And we see you people who have passed this agreement - you people who are now giving 40 euros to Greeks, who are taking 500 euros to make 550 euros and you are giving a pocket - that you cannot appear anywhere. What outcry is that? So dear are you from the Greek society? You go to a cafeteria, you're being chased. In squares and streets we don't talk about it, you can't go out. And you dare say and make announcements - SYRIZA - that this is concentratings? I learned that SYRIZA's official will go to Serres on Friday or Saturday - somewhere I read it, I don't remember when it is - and they have said that the Macedonians there will react and make a gathering to show their reaction. It's - it says - counter-concentration what's going on. First of all, beyond his ridiculous thing - because SYRIZA is the first to apply the mergers in Greece - it has become more than forty-five, fifty to the members and MPs of the Golden Dawn. Wherever we go to speak officially, SYRIZA's executives and MPs are involved in the co-concentrations. But let me inform you - to know very well - what Greek citizens are doing at the moment at your expense, they are not concentratings. It's the popular outcry, it's the popular anger, which will be chasing you all your life from now on. That's it. To conclude by saying that seeing the democracy that prevails in Greece and again saying that you have established a deep state, who dares to resist you is now persecuted. That's where we're from. Priests, teachers, citizens, students who dare to say they have a different view of you, come the praetorians of MATs whom you would abolish. You didn't want the MATs because they hit Greek citizens, they probably hit the left-wing citizens you were. And now you come here and you're in hug with the MATs. The President of Parliament is congratulating him. Gerovasili and Papacosta praise the tons of chemical tons of chemical tons of chemical tons. It is a little important here that we tell them - in the world outside at the rallys. What's up, leftists? Find people of democracy who respect popular sovereignty, how are you with MATs now? What happened? With the MATs, your Prime Minister, with the MATs, is on the move, too. Not for long. Why do you want September? In September, I tell you, if there are no earlier elections, we will have elections. Then go your parliamentary seats, go your items and see how you'll be released without MATs. You will not protect the MATs then and you will go out to society and you will say why you voted here, the Prespecies' Agreement which betrayed our Macedonia, our soul, but which Macedonia will not be given. There is the Golden Dawn within the Greek Parliament and there are millions of Greeks out there who will not allow this thing to be completed whatever you do. I will repeat once again that you 100 three represent only yourself and your idealism. The Greek people and, above all, this matter does not represent him at all, rather you are in complete contrast. Finally, you will allow me, especially those who are listening to us, to refer to a personal matter. I do not, above all, do it from the Step of this House, but I would like to speak for a moment, so that it is not considered that you neither feared me nor would you make me back or anything else. There has been an organized plan to fight the presence of Golden Dawn next to the Greeks of the rally and more generally where there are Greek citizens protesting. Since July 2018, because the Chief of Golden Dawn, our MPs and our executives are next to Greek citizens, you have begun a pogrom of persecution. The President of Parliament, who has no respect for the institution he has but acted as a party supporter and a SYRIZA official, said that in 2018 I was outside and instrumental attacks on how to understand the Greek Parliament. Of course, after some extrajudicial sent to him and what we told him, he resurrected bricks. Of course, he didn't have the elementary manhood to go out and say even what he did was wrong, that there was misinformation, that it wasn't like that. They left it and passed it and went to the useless bin. And you've been coming today since last Sunday and you're saying the same again. You targeted me, you targeted all Golden Dawn, for me being out with Greek citizens. Well, listen, symbols, Bolsheviks, pasocchiots, neo-democratics, I wasn't afraid of you, I'm not afraid of you, I won't be afraid of you. I was out at the rally, I didn't cause any episodes, I didn't create any episodes. You won't forbid me or tell me what I'm going to do. I am a free Greek citizen, the Greek people voted me to be here, here I will be and represent him. They were sent out in all these media, which said these lies. If they don't undo, we're going to file lawsuits and where we're going and what we're going to do, it's our right. Being out with Greek citizens is an honor for the Golden Dawn. You sit on the bench, because in society you can't go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u244	Mrs Stamatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much, Mr President. After the hybrid speech of the previous speaker to return to the bill we are debating today. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, which concerns a key pillar in democracy, which is public administration. Reconstruction and strengthening of public administration are directly linked to the establishment of the social state, the social state that we are trying to set back on its feet, the social state which has been devastated, devastated, devalued in previous years in the years of the harsh memorandum policies. The draft law doesn't come at random today. It comes after leaving the memorandum, it comes now that we can legislate without limitations, without comitology. We can now make corrections, adjustments, transfers, recruitments based on the social necessity, transparent and fair procedures and ensuring the social and labour rights of workers. In recent years, the public administration sector has suffered a severe blow both due to horizontal reductions in staff and due to a lack of structure or malfunction. Civil servants, human resources, the driving force of public administration were at the forefront of cuts and austerity policies, whether they were working at the local government agencies or at public benefit organisations such as health and education, with all the agencies being left behind and the suffering of the citizens who need social benefits. Since 2015, our Government has launched an effort to restructure the public administration, characterising the functionality of structures and ensuring procedures, measures to help restore citizens' confidence in the administration, and the bill is in this direction. In particular, it is important that, in this draft law, in addition to strengthening and broadening the IAS, strengthening the coordinating role of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, the measures introduced for workers' rights, there are some provisions implementing the principle of gender equality, which we have voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2018 we passed two important laws on gender equality, more embodied in the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, but also very importantly the principle of equal treatment and harmonisation of family and professional life. All of us were anxious that these two principles were not left in the bill that was introduced today, we are legislating in this direction. So the draft legislation we are debating today extends the right to three-month leave - in addition to mothers who have acquired a child with adoption - and to foster fathers and is awarded the same right to parents who have a child with parental mother and to foster parents, in proportion to natural parents, but also to single parents. We are taking another step towards implementing gender equality and harmonising family life. There are also social provisions in the draft legislation concerning three-tier families. There is a measure that provides that 10% of the registered posts of regular staff and staff under an indefinite private law contract are covered by parents and children of a third family. Therefore, this measure applies to children who have not completed the twenty-fifth and thirty-fifth years since they are studying and fulfilling their military service regardless of the age of the other members of the family. Also with the bill we are discussing, children’s days of leave are increasing due to child - disease in third-party parents and multiple parents, as well as to single - parent families. Another very important provision is this, which concerns disabled people. In order to remove indirect discrimination, which is inconsistent with the principles of integration and integration of small and medium-sized enterprises in a society for all, with regard to persons with deafness or grief who wish to apply in the notices to cover positions in the public sector and who possess the attestation of the sign language, there is therefore no need for proof of adequacy and knowledge of a foreign language. In the context of these regulations, therefore, the main direction of this government's policy, which is to guarantee equality, social cohesion and equal participation of citizens with special care for vulnerable groups, is the main direction of this government's policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are very confused and very difficult. You cannot accept that our Government has managed to keep society up, to take it out of the memorials, to legislate and solve chronic problems both inside and abroad with the final vote on the Ambassadors' Agreement. It is an agreement that the world community has been very pleased to accept, with the best words and only you are still at every opportunity, even today, to cultivate the divided political climate and to strengthen fear and confusion in the Greek society. Now you've found a new account, it's the government majority. We have proven that we have it and we will prove to you that we have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, too. Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that public administration is a key pillar of the state's democratic functioning. At the same time, it is also a basic lever of the democratic character, of the fairness of social development and of the social state, which serves the public interest and the citizens. It is also known that the public administration is the great patient of the Greek state. Vacuums, deficits, pathogens are such as to be an anti-developing wheel brake. The situation in it is distinguished by functional internalism, hydrocapitalism, concentration on structures and decision-making, a grid of pluralism, ambiguity, parallel levels and administrative procedures and assemblies, formalism. There is also an irrational unequal distribution of public administration officials, a lack of adequate and qualified staff that responds to the current needs, bureaucratic strangles, the absence of human resources management policy, client relations, partyism, inflexibility, responsibilities, but I would say that there is also the attitude of "occultism". In recent years with the prevalence of neoliberal perceptions and the position of the country under comitology, they have been added to the reduction of the institutional powers of the public, its structure and functional degradation as a guarantor of the public interest, the delegation of powers to the private sector, irrational, abused, even illegal policies to reduce the number of civil servants and their wages, thus expanding the pathogens of organisational and administrative functions, all this has been transformed into a structural crisis of public administration. Only rebuilding the real reorganisation of public administration can make it a real servant of the citizen and transform it into an organisational and operational lever of growth and progress. In this context, from 2015, following the restoration of the injustices between 2010 and 2014, the gradual safeguarding of confidence within the public administration and the credibility of the outside, critical structural changes, such as the establishment and implementation of a new system of selection of managers in positions of responsibility and a new system for the mobility of public administration staff, have been implemented by the SYRIZA Government. Deeply changing, institutionally and technically, requires strengthening the management of human resources, merit, objectivity and transparency. This is pursued by this bill. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the effective planning of the monitoring and implementation of an integrated administrative reconstruction strategy. In this context, the establishment, first of all, of a system of multi-annual and annual strategic recruitment plans for regular and seasonal staff, which will be fully in line with the budgetary cycle, the medium-term programme and the annual budget. There will be a strategy to illustrate the needs of public administration bodies by prioritising priorities within the framework of the integrated development and social strategy. Finally, there will be an interconnection with structural changes in the public human resource management system, such as the Single Mobility System, the preparation of position profiles and the operation of the digital organisational chart. The design of recruitments in the public administration is established and specialised so that they do not be made manually, favourablely and micro-politically but form part of a strategic planning that meets real needs and facilitates the service of those who are involved in it. The system of strategic recruitment planning for regular and seasonal staff aims to better plan, upgrade, accelerate and simplify the process of authorising staff recruitment requests to public bodies. In addition, it is a direct priority to promote a planning policy, which provides for planning within specific time margins and which does not allow for fragmentary and timely interventions to avoid uninterrupted coverage of the needs of executives, created within and outside public bodies. An important innovation is the prediction that the application for participation of the candidate is a responsible statement instead of the parallel production of supporting documents, dismantling the services at this point from unnecessary administrative controls and saving time and expenditure. In addition, these procedures shall be followed within a specified period in order to ensure that the system is and remains objective and practicable. In addition, the strengthening of the functioning of the AACC shall be established and strengthened by further strengthening it. The ASP was founded in PASOK, Prime Minister Andrea Papandreou and Minister Anastasios Peponnis. As part of the strengthening of the IASP, it is planned to keep up and shorten the deadlines provided by the legislation to solve problems raised by citizens, since it is known that the delay in administrative action and the administration of justice are important diseases of the Greek state. Enlargement of the IASC mission and increasing its workload makes it necessary to take measures to better design and implement public recruitment policy and is a guarantee of an undivided, impartial and worthwhile implementation of structural changes for the management of human resources. In addition, the final planning, monitoring and implementation of the administrative reconstruction strategy is established, because the effective implementation of structural changes and reforms in public administration is based on the effective organisation and functioning of structures and procedures for final planning, but at the same time on the monitoring and implementation of an integrated administrative reconstruction strategy. In this context, the Advisory Council for Administrative Reconstruction is being set up, the Special Secretariat for Support for Operations for Administrative Reconstruction and is being strengthened, I would say, the Public Administration Observatory is being re-established, so that there is a measurement and evaluation of the results of the administrative reconstruction policies, which are extremely important for the functioning of the public administration. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to make two points. The work of reorganisation, reconstruction, rebuilding public administration is not easy. Apart from the completion of e-government that has already begun, strong political will, support from workers in public administration and support from them. We can make it. Another public administration, which is being promoted under this bill, is the basis for the country's socially just productive reconstruction. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I address the Members of the Staff Regulations - you are unfortunately following your own misery. Whatever is done, you seem to be doing it for distraction and election reasons. The elections you have been requesting for many years will take place in 2019, ladies and gentlemen. But you have not realised that the country has come out of the memoranda and is following another course. The government has the ability to pursue autonomous policies. This is what the current government exercises, and these are linked to the support and support of the social state, they have a social person. That's what you disagree with. This scares you and frightens you, because they rely on a large social majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Chogas from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. I feel the need to comment, although I am not used to it, on the rescheduling of Mr Voridis on the concept of national dynamism and betrayal. In my opinion, these are two identical concepts, the modesty of Mr Voridis and the betrayal of Mr Ragou. To me, it is not a step below betrayal but it is the reverse, that is, the national minority is a step further than betrayal, because - if we speak legally - it specialises more or is closer to the core of the objective situation of the offence concerned, that is, national and mediation in a conflict with the concept of betrayal, which is more general and needs greater probative power. So the fact that "I was registered as a national broker and a traitor on the Golden Dawn side" is there a long distance? In my opinion, no. They are two concepts with the same aim and obviously have a particular socio-ethical and criminal decency and therefore they want attention to these concepts. Ladies and gentlemen, for today's bill we are debating, on 'Strengthening the IASC and strengthening the Public Administration and other provisions', I would like to say this: The way in which the public administration organises and operates is the main axis of economic development and progress of any organised society. The economic crisis in recent years has strongly demonstrated the weaknesses and problematic organisation of the entire state mechanism and has led to a complete disorganisation and deregulation of its structures, putting public administration in an economic and political deadlock. Insufficient use and irrational distribution of human resources, lack of organisation and coordination, absence of modern methods and management tools, deficit in organisation and supervision structures, lack of strategic planning, bureaucracy and opacity are now established weaknesses in the public administration, which prevent the state from functioning smoothly and are responsible for the general depreciation of public space. The draft law to be passed will make a decisive contribution to a modern public administration, equipped with quality characteristics at both human and structure level. The whole of its provisions create that environment, which guarantees the upgrading of public bodies and the maintenance of its structures by means of merital procedures in conditions of control and full transparency with a view to providing high-level services to citizens and the shielding of the public interest. Arrangements are being promoted that aim at a stable budget planning and best practices for the use of this human resources that manage public bodies. The establishment of a four-year recruitment plan for regular and seasonal staff through highly simplified procedures will help to speed up the staffing procedures of the public administration bodies. In conjunction with the activation from 1 January 2020 of the digital organogram established by Law 4440/2016, a better management of human resources will be achieved. In the context of recruitment planning, significant benefits are provided for the ADP, since on the basis of the annually approved programming, the Agency will be able to carry out recruitments in a shorter time and issue single notices of similar positions by industry or specialties in which the positions requested by the relevant bodies are accumulated. With regard to the ASA, its chronic malfunctions, endless bureaucracy and its under-relationship directly and in a way negatively affect the smooth functioning of the bodies of the public administration. The APA from the beginning of its operation has not been able to cope with its role. The delays in the completion of important notices and in the adoption of recruitment results are a key obstacle to any effort to upgrade and reorganise public administration, as a key tool for the proper functioning of the wider public sector. In order to strengthen and accelerate the work of the AACC, arrangements are therefore introduced that aim at adequate staffing of the institution through secondments of personnel from the public administration of permanent or private law of indefinite duration. There are issues relating to overtime, overworking and night work of CSCE officials, while particularly important are the provision of simplifying the procedure for lodging and checking supporting documents, which is a real obstacle to the rapid integration of recruitments. In addition to the establishment of the Advisory Council of the Special Secretariat for Support for Operations for Administrative Reconstruction and the Public Administration Observatory, all conditions are created for the effective design, organisation, monitoring and implementation of the country's administrative reconstruction strategy. The task of the Advisory Council is to draw up opinions and recommendations with regard to the strategic priorities and objectives of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, while the Public Administration Observatory is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the administrative reconstruction policies produced and implemented. In addition, with the aim of combating discrimination in the labour sector and on the basis of the principle of equality, it is excluded from the obligation to prove knowledge of the foreign language, provided that it is not defined as a formal qualification, for persons with deafness or gravitation with at least 50% disability, who hold a certificate of competence of the Greek semantic language. Foreign language exemptions satisfy a chronic and fair demand for deaf or deaf persons, facilitating their appointment to positions opened at a predetermined rate on the basis of the protective provision in (c) paragraph 6 of Article 14 of Law 2190/1994. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. In the positive, too, the bill records the fact that it recognises modern family forms and is fully in line with the current reality, as it regulates the granting of child care and child rearing leave and fostering parents as well as those who have a child in the process of parental maternity as well as the granting of a three-month maternity leave with full pay to the foster father. In addition, in order to improve the quality of the public's human resources, which will contribute to the qualitative upgrading of services to citizens, the continuing training and education of civil servants is enhanced, with retroactive effect the application of the provision on the planned age limit for employee participation in postgraduate education programmes and the certification of administrative competence for CPI civil servants and their subsequent mobilisation in the process of selecting senior organic units is institutionalised. The reform of the Greek public administration is a one-way and fully aligns this draft law, which, through institutional changes introduced in the way of organising and operating public bodies and through the strengthening and upgrading of its staff, lays the foundations for modernising and reconstructing a progressive public administration aimed at providing quality services to the citizen, building an operational and healthy environment for the civil servant, economic prosperity and defending the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, you hear me from the opposition, the non-voting of the bill will also be a petty political decision that marks your political deadlock and social intolerance, and with your positive vote in the draft law you will also contribute to the reconstruction of the Greek public administration necessary Treaty for modernising the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u250	Mrs. Thalerite Maria from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said by both the Minister and the other Members of Parliament, this draft law is an integral part and continuation of steps we have set out in the framework of a strategy and long-term strategy for the upgrading and reform of public administration. And since the Civic Opposition challenges the realities of this government in relation to legislative initiatives to modernise and democratise public administration, I am obliged to recall: First phase in 2015, the Government made institutional interventions to restore injustices, injustices that had been committed so violently to the human resources of public administration. I would remind you: Availables and Dismissals. Our first choice and institutional profile is to restore these injustices to the detriment of public workers, who have for years been devalued and systematically targeted by the previous governments. Second period 2016-2017. There have been two important areas, which show the different perceptions and direction we have in terms of public administration and its reconstruction. These guidelines are based on the principles of colonisation, democratic control, rationalisation of structures and simplification of procedures. Besides, they are the main pillars of our pilot project. In this period, then, the National Register of Officials is being passed, the evaluation, mobility, the public crises that have so far been the appointment of the previous government, and we have not even made a change when we took over the country's governance. We have worked with them and since we have created a worthwhile system, we have come today to do just the public crises. Therefore, these are institutional interventions, which faced time-consuming diseases of the Greek public administration, and have brought precisely the principles of dignity, impartiality, transparency and the assessment of human resources. Here I would like to refer to what Mr Voridis said, in the end what we have done about evaluation. I would like to remind you how difficult it was - the Minister said before - to give a different meaning to what we say reform to public administration and evaluation, when this punishing nature has been preceded in the evaluation, i.e. this percentage is evaluated and fired, made available. You realise how difficult it is for a government to come and make use of an institution, the institution of evaluation, which has also been placed on another basis, namely an assessment of structures and not only of the worker in the public sector, which requires time and very good cooperation with the human resources of the public administration. We're coming to phase three, the memorial. Whether we want it or not, it's memorable. And if the New Democracy lost its account because it wanted a fourth memorandum and because it wanted us not to go out on the markets to apply the credit line, I'm sorry, but it'll be left without a narrative, especially after the Minister of Finance's placement. We have also been on the markets as we said, and we are currently going through the memorial period. I say this because this is not only reflected in the public administration but also in a number of measures taken by this government, such as the abolition of the minimum wage and the increase in the minimum wage. And on this basis, we are now coming after ten years of impoverishment in the public sector, saying that, yes, we will have recruitment and, indeed, recruitment in a different way that I will explain. So our aim was to upgrade public administration, that is to ensure a public administration that is, in fact, a key tool that contributes decisively to the country's strategy of productive reconstruction, will ensure that institutional changes, which contribute to the better functioning of the public administration, while strengthening digital transformation and ensuring in every way that public administration is in the public interest and serving the public and not the private sector, because the private sector will serve it under rules. Because there is a lot of talk of the Opposition about recruitment, it is worth remembering the period of the memorials, where the public administration has been targeted and deceived. It is worth remembering what happened - and there was no precedent in another European country - with the horizontal reductions in regular staff. Indeed, these cuts reached about 20%, while we have all experienced the depreciation of civil servants. So the reality of the Greek public administration over the last three years has changed radically and decisively. Since disinvestment in infrastructure and human resources, from the depreciation of public services and civil servants on the altar of neoliberal orders, public administration has changed a navigational line and has become a key factor in the country's productive and social reconstruction. What is the government doing at this time of the memorial? It shall apply the rule ‘one to one’. So on the issue of leaving nine thousand people from the public will hire another nine thousand. Is this a state enlargement, as the Opposition accuses us? Not at all, unless they want the public administration completely detested, because we are interested in most of its administrative material, i.e. the services to give them to private individuals. So in other words, we are trying at this stage, at this juncture, to restrain, to put a brake on the shrinking of the Greek public that has been taking place for many years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To put it another way, in this new period that we are experiencing, our barbaric ideological differences with opposition are becoming even more obvious, which goes on to insist on 'five to one'. And, of course, we all know why he wants to do so, because he wants the public to be devalued. Only now that there is no alibi to the memorandum and the necessary path to the policies that we are planning and implementing. That is why we are moving towards institutional changes and interventions based on the real needs of the public administration, contrary to opposition, which once again selects iso-democratic and anti-government rhetoric and politics, whenever there is a question of support for public administration. But all of this in a reasonable and philosophical sense that the government must now fall, so we are not interested in any bill on the substance of it and we are therefore still making this opposition. Finally, I think that this innovation of the bill - namely the programming of recruitments in multiannual, four-year programming and the strengthening of the ADP, as this public body guarantees the sovereignty and introduction of most Greeks in the public sector, which until now could not be introduced, because it was not part of this client state - I think it is very important. But we have to bear in mind that too many times we legislate and we must also be able to have an institutional shield of these laws or of the changes we are trying to make. So this institutional armour is achieved with tools and structures that we choose to be within public administration - not outside public administration - within the corpus, within the body of public administration and is the advisory board, the special secretariat, the Observatory. Allow me here, because objections were expressed by the Vice-Presidents, to explain that the Observatory - he said so, and the Minister in committee - complied with these standards in order to be able to obtain funding from the European Union. In the context of the reconstruction of a public administration that wants to play a strategic role, it is precisely necessary to be able to assess, monitor and draw conclusions so that it can come in cooperation with the ECHR - which we consider to be a very important body - to contribute to a social planning much more productive for public administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u252	Well done, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u253	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, as far as the technical service you are questioning is concerned, I would like to say to the rapporteur that at the moment if the establishment plans are delayed, if we delay a number of measures that we have adopted, it is because we have a public administration which does not yet have the human resources we want. So this technical support will help very much to implement all the legislative initiatives that we have taken. Finally, as regards what the Minister says as a revival of sovereignty - and was misinterpreted by Mr Voridis - I think we are talking about a revival of sovereignty, which concerns the planning and monitoring of public administration policies. We want this sovereignty to come through the tools and institutions, that is to say, to produce know-how and not to import know-how, which we need in an upgrade of public administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u254	All right, all right, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u255	I'll be done. I would like to refer to the amendment to which Mr Vorides referred. I would like to say this: we are talking here about a ten-year-old hostage of people who work as hydronomers in EYDAP, who have spent a large part of their lives in the courts, there is an opinion of the Ice Bay. We therefore consider this legislation to be a solution to these ten-year differences so that the administrative board can take this initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u256	You're done, Mrs. Theleritis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u257	It's over. I shall conclude, Mr President, it is my last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u258	Be the final end, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u259	The final end will be, Mr President. I think that modernising the Staff Code with social provisions, including the legislative provisions relating to changes in family patterns - adoption, parentality, assumption and so on - is coming to upgrade a Staff Code, to give a social character to the provisions that I think are necessary for this public administration that we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u260	The State Secretary, Mr Cretso, wants to present an amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u261	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment differentiates the time for the payment of the instalments of the price of each licensed free-of-the-ground digital television broadcasting broadcaster following the first instalment and provides that each instalment will be paid by 15 May each calendar year. As is well known, in September 2018 the tender for the licensing of national broadcasters for a general programme of information on general content, in which five providers of this category were authorised. After persistent and numerous attempts by this government, thirty years of lawlessness and illegal use of a public good, Greece has finally acquired television channels with legal permission. The licensed television stations paid in mid-September 2018 the first instalment of the price of EUR 3,5 million of the total ten instalments for their ten-year licence. The state, in addition to a legal status which it has achieved and imposed on the television scene, is interested, as you can see, in the existence of investments and in the viability of businesses in the space and industry. In this case, taking into account the short time elapsed from the completion of the competitive process and the payment of the first instalment of the price, as well as the increased obligations of the licensed television channels, in particular with regard to jobs, investments in the production of a prototype, quality and competitive programme, as provided for by Law 439/2015 and the existing broadcasting legislation, it is considered reasonable and appropriate to allow licensed television channels to pay each other the rest of the price instalments by 15 May of each year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u262	Until Mr. Kostas Morfidis, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how three students and students and two teachers - their 1st General School of Patras (second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Mr Morfidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, having followed all the debate that took place in the committee, I think it was a very good and creative debate from all sides. I had the impression that today we would have a really creative debate on the bill we have to discuss. Instead, Mr Javarras began with the truly monumental placement of "who is the title of the bill?". His criticism came to that, until the title, did not go any further: Berballist the title. But that's the way it is, when the bill doesn't give you the chance to make an opposition, you're oppositioning at least in the title, but you're doing it with a veil, so you're right in your party. If, of course, the bill does not give you the opportunity to make an opposition, you go to other issues, especially the one that is topical, such as the Macedonian, which was used by all the speakers of the Opposition. But above all, I would like to stand by the Macedonian-ASP, which Mrs Vultesis said. I believe that you can put any precedent on the bills or on the positive measures taken by the government, whether that is Macedonia, whether it is the Peloponnese, whether it is Crete, Germany, Russia or I do not know what else. But the issue of the place, for the citizens, is that this government is bringing positive action here. So each citizen recognises himself, his life, his everyday life better through these positive measures. You seek precedents that you will put in front of the titles. As far as Mr Voridis is concerned, I shall say that he is right. Indeed, we have paid much less than what his prolongation has given the neighboring country thirty years ago. Mostly, it gave them the right to be called the "Democracy of Macedonia" detta - and that is a responsibility you cannot deport above you. Let's go to the bill now. Our public administration policy is certainly at the reverse of the policies that have been implemented in previous years, especially in the Memorandum years. That is why, since 2015, we have tried to change things and restore the injustices that have happened all these years - we know them - with redundancies, with the appointments of the heads of government overnight and all that. So we brought Law4325/2015 to restore these injustices. Of course, we then brought L.4369/2016, establishing the National Executive Register. This is a reform, and I say this about Mr Koutsouko, who said that we did not bring any reform. If it is a large or small reform, the register will show it the time and way it is implemented, as of course mobility is a major reform, its size will then be seen. As far as the APA is concerned, it is a major structure, an independent authority and was indeed established in 1994 by the Peponnes Act. What he has done and is important - and that is why he has been recognised by all the citizens of our country - is that he has put an end to Rusphetti, which is what they recognize him and that is why it is one of the independent authorities that is really positive from the citizens. Not all independent authorities are judged positive. And that's an answer to Mr. Kegeroglu. The independent authorities cannot be unavoidable, but there must in some way be criticism. And Parliament has a responsibility to control and evaluate them. So, with the bill we are debating today, a multi-annual and annual strategic recruitment planning is finally being introduced, which is missing, which we have asked for. The requests of public bodies in a single notice or the possibility of having two-year notices shall be consolidated. Of course, the selection procedures are speeding up, particularly in contests that we have had a large number of requests, which, like the last 3K, lead to a delay. It strengthens the ASA with staff and will certainly be better than it will be through extracts. The changes in the Staff Code, which are made in relation to parental leave and leave for all those studying, continue their studies during their public service service. Of course, it is also important that changes to third-texts, which were a manifest injustice and had to be rectified, because when the first child completed the 23rd year they went out and lost the third-text status. And, of course, this for the LEADs, the bourgeois and the deaf, who have had a problem with certification for foreign languages. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Well, as time is running out, I would like to say that ladies and gentlemen, we have provided samples of writing for our position on the public sector and public administration. We organise, develop, make fairer, more public-friendly. So we will continue with perseverance and patience, leaving your void criticism, for the Greek people to judge it. You, of counter-population, do courage and devise new fairy tales, because your fairy tales - sadly for you - have a shorter time of life, as well as a fairy tale about "You can't go out on the market" had only one month's duration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u264	They have asked for three colleagues, Mr Katsotis, Mr Ballis and Mr Georgantas. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u265	We must recognise both the SYRIZA and the New Democracy the ambitious efforts you are making to hide your common strategy. Workers and the populace, especially young people and young people, see that your agony, your concern is how you will implement the demands of big capital internally, but also abroad. Inside the workers, the people, the ruthless war on all aspects of their lives: unemployment, reduction of wages, pensions, tax pay, sharing of one job in two and three, repression, terrorism, reduction of democratic rights, such as the right to strike from the "first time left". This line you all served with the memoirs. This is also your programme and is confirmed by the attitude of the parties that alter government power. It starts where the previous ones stopped. Despite opposition struggles, they abolish nothing from anti-government laws and continue with their own. Thus SYRIZA, with his extreme right-wing partner, continued with the third memorandum, including the former two Republic of New Democracy and PASOK. They manage the needs of business groups, which is why with the lowest wage they enacted the New Democracy law, the Brutsi Act, which Mrs Ahtsioglou used yesterday to invoke on a television broadcast to convince that "children are not pre-electional arrangements, but provision of the existing law", i.e. the New Democracy Act. That is why the period decided upon is laid down by him. The New Democracy claims that it first spoke of an increase in the minimum wage, while it had gone from EUR 751 to EUR 586 and EUR 511 respectively. How's that law? It abolishes collective bargaining for the minimum wage, permanently simulated by decision of the government. Today, a reduction, tomorrow, depending on the suggestion made by the business groups. The SYRIZA Government has decided not to return to EUR 751 that was the minimum wage before the memorandum, but to be EUR 650, that is, EUR 100 below 2012. And you're saying the memorials are over and the regularity is here? The criteria you have taken into consideration are against their workers and families. They ensure the profits of large business groups, the profitability criteria. In addition to reduced wages, profitability is strengthened, especially by the work jungle you have maintained and enlarged these four years. The proposal for a law of five hundred thirty unions, federations, labour centres, submitted by the JRC concerning the reintroduction of EUR 751, collective labour agreements, rejected it, all together, because it reverses the pursuit of capital for increased profitability and cheap labour power. Four years you have now maintained as government the shameful minimum wage that, combined with flexible labour relations, led young people and young people to modern slavery. Workers and the populace are claiming the abolition of anti-corruption measures, the cover for the great losses they alone have had, the reintroduction of collective bargaining, the institutional framework for collective agreements - because you have overturned this - and the abolition of the trial period of twelve months, which effectively abolishes the compensation, the abolition of the Katrugalos Act. They require increases to meet their needs, pensions to ensure a decent living for the partisans of work, abolition of tax fraud, payments by monopolistic and business groups. And abroad, you also support the choices of the bourgeoisie for its active involvement in the sharing of prey, their participation in transnational organisations, the European Union and NATO for deeper involvement in the country's imperialist planning, interventions, wars, control of the wealth of peoples and countries, their transport routes. This is also your common strategy abroad: hostile to the majority of our people, dangerous to the country and the people. The expansion of NATO's murderous organisation with the integration of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the Western Balkans is what unites you and the world citizens of the government with New Democracy and KINAL, as is the nationalist extreme right-wing fascists. That's what you all do. The SYRIZA Government is entrepreneured and claims that membership of NATO and the European Union is a matter for the people of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. We want to note that no party that declares left has put NATO's enlargement, does not support NATO. Secondly, the people of the neighbouring country abstained from the referendum organized by the civil order of that country, with the support of the urban classes, the countries of the European Union, the countries participating in NATO and the United States of America. The 30% vote, voted under the raw intervention of all these dilemmas and any other instrument used. The workers' class, the popular strata of our country, the countries of the European Union, the world, have experienced the consequences of imperialist planning, interventions, wars, the role of transnational organisations promoting the interests of monopolistic groups, particularly NATO, which are known to be responsible for many deaths. Workers and the people demand any involvement of the country in the imperialist planning. This deeply divided attitude was raised by the JRC, highlighting the dangerous Embassy Agreement and voting against it. We believe that it is a one-way road today the mass militarisation of our people, particularly of working class, in organised struggles, of course, with the modern needs of all the workers, with the abandonment of the powers of government and employers' union by the workers, because they undermined every struggle and 'hit' to all governments to pass all over the overturns. Today the prospect is in the struggle to break and overthrow the rotten and barbaric system, the state-powered. We call in association with the JRC, because only the JRC has a proposal that benefits many against the few. All of you are on capital, its prerogatives, the European Union, NATO. You stand up against the prospect of the abolition of human exploitation. You stand opposite the life that our own people deserve. As far as the state, with all its structures, is concerned, it will not change. He'll serve this class in power. Modernisation, its evolution will be continuous, adaptable to the needs of monopolistic groups, implement the laws that serve them and serve their own development, the productive reconstruction that they want. These modernizations have nothing to do with the needs of the majority of the people. This State will objectively be more repressive, strengthen the repressive mechanisms, implement rights reduction arrangements. This system is not humanized. It's gonna get worse. A oneway is labour power.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u266	Mr Georgadas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. I think the debate that took place was really interesting, because we had the opportunity to deal with too many issues, to remember things. I would like to remind Members of SYRIZA that the New Democracy, when it considers that a bill is in the right direction, in the reform direction, in the development direction, does not hesitate to vote on it. We have also passed bills and bill divisions many times. I must, however, recall that in 2012-2013-2014 the opposition SYRIZA voted for only one amendment. In order not to blame them, I will say that they have also voted for some of the provisions of the Drugs Act, but one amendment was the emblematic one. She was the one who gave the sentenced Roman to be able to go and study at the TEIs. She was the one you voted for for two and a half years. Apparently you didn't find anything positive. You probably didn't want to see anything positive for two and a half years. We therefore do not hesitate to vote in favour of it. This does not mean, however, that we will'support' anything that comes here either in an article or in an unacceptable amendment 10 minutes before the end of the debate, as we have just been told, which is scandalous for me. I'll tell you what I mean as a scandal. The Government has cornered the television channels, as indicated by it, and has ordered them to pay invoices for the permits. These prices have been entered, entered in the budget and there are specific dates on which, according to the law, these instalments must be paid. Of course, this has also created the possibility for some to be able to bid on a procedure. Today, then, absolutely unnecessarily - the explanatory statement says nothing - the Minister comes and tells us that, instead of paying this money in January of each year, they will be paid on 15 May of each year, because the Minister wants it, because the government wants it. Why? Why should we have - as the report says - a lack of revenue? Receiving revenue, says the General Accounting Office of the State. Does the channels hope to offset the next instalment with the money they will be entitled to, due to the television time of the May elections? Did - I say - do we make this facilitation as well? But we can do it both in time and next year. Let someone explain why the Greek State, which has been in need, needs to deprive this money of the Canadians for so many months. Explain it to us. If they explain it to us and we understand it, we might support it. But I didn't hear an explanation. Who are you hitting? Tell us. If it's not a map, you can explain why it's not. I want you to tell us what's right. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the feasibility of this transfer, the obligation to collect revenue, can I hear it from someone and then place myself? That's what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u268	Why didn't you ask the Minister? It's a ministerial amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u269	I didn't hear it. He didn't say anything. And the Minister didn't say anything. I am telling you in your explanatory statement of five series concerning millions: ‘With the provisions of the proposed Article 13(3), as applicable, as regards the time of payment of the instalments of each licensed digital television broadcast on the ground, following the first instalment, and provided that each instalment is paid up up to 15 May instead of January’. That is the explanatory statement. What for? Somebody tell us. Because we were asked by the canals and we were told that they have economic liquidity. Is that right, Mr. Voridis? This is also a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u270	You're serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u271	Yes, there may be a narrowness. But to finish another story today, because with ASP, you played and continue to play, all previous governments respected it, and it has become established in the consciousness of the world. And while he was doomed, you are indifferent to the substance and to the procedure for his operation. I want to say this. It is permanently permanent and the MPs of SYRIZA and the Ministers for Administrative Reconstruction: No one entered the public as permanent staff without the procedures of the AACC. Only those who were vindicated by courts came in. Of course, justice by the courts is one of those provided and, of course, the House is obliged, when there are judgements, to respect them. However, I have here an article that has come as an amendment. Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is amended as follows: Voted December 2016 by you here. According to this, some PDO contractors, the "DEPANIM SA", the "Building Infrastructure", as they are now called today, who had lost the courts in which they had relied on to recognize their employment as an indefinite period of time - and lost them on an irrevocable level, on the Argentine Ice - two ministers came and wanted to make them absolutely indefinite, while there was an unreserved decision. And you know what the big scandal is? One could say, "But did the ministers not know? Did they not know that decision by the Ice Arena? Here's what this provision says, which you voted in favour of: 'They' - all those who I said - 'with the exception of any conflict of law or decision'. Listen a little, as the Minister says: 'For anyone who has not understood, even the decision of the Ice Arena'. They shall therefore, by way of derogation from any other arrangements or decision, be made to individual posts with an indefinite employment relationship. That's the ASA you've been publishing for all day here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u272	What amendment are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u273	I do not remember the number of amendments, but they were made to Article 30, which amends Article 66 to No.4369/2016. I can give it to you right away, I'm filing it for the Minutes. It was a ministerial amendment that was made to this article. It was Mr. Spirtzi and Mrs. Gerovalis. [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, I shall conclude by saying this. Let us be honest with the Greek people. Let us be modest, because a great deal has been done over the last four years which do not seek honour in any of you personally and let New Democracy be responsible for voting in favour of what he thinks should be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u275	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u276	What Mr Georgantas said about Article 66 is for hydronomists. We supported it. That is where Article 66 refers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u277	Refers to old history, to article 66 of L.4369/2016. It is for the Building Infrastructures that I have tabled, a provision that you have supported.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u278	I would also like to say that the last amendment, Mr President, is challenging, namely to take the price in the long term after the 'gifts' which have been made. These facilities are coming and it is a challenge for this amendment to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u279	It's not for today, it's not about today's bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u280	It's your government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u281	Sit down, Mr. Georganta. You've become a habit. The other day, he had a hearing. It doesn't have today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u282	It's the way you're acting against S.H.I.E.L.D. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u283	We got it a minute of publicity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, I would like to speak for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u285	Here you go, Mrs. Kozobol.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u286	I have tabled an amendment concerning the Toys Supervisory Committee, that the Mobility Act should not apply for another year because of the difficulty of being staffed. As Minister Eukleidis Tsakalotos saw her, she needed some modifications to accept, withdraw, and I will bring her back. It is the amendment with a general number of 1939 and a special 32. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Ballis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is an amendment that you mentioned, Mr Georgioda. There was a misunderstanding that it was today. I'm sorry to say that. It is not today's amendment that you mentioned. It's too old.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u289	It's your government. He's gone off?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u290	But we should go to today. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel I need to point out an injustice that has been committed today to the detriment of rapporteurs and speakers from the other opposition, other than the New Democracy, because they had the "happiness" to speak before Mr Tsakalotos came here and told the House of the news of the successful exit into the market. We raised 2.5 billion, he told us, at a 3.6% interest rate. The burden of the degradation of this successful exit and positive news has fallen on Mr Voridis who was the next speaker. With regard to the New Democracy, it makes sense, it is one of the three pillars of the formation of the party line and the expression of the positions and views of the New Democracy. However, as regards the fact that he himself took this burden on behalf of the opposition for the rest of the parties, I mean that it was an injustice. What did Mr. Voridis say in attempting this degradation? First he said it was too little and they came late. It was a little 2.5 billion. We went for 2 billion. And they're late. He attempted comparisons by saying first that the 3.6% interest rate was too high. Yes, sir. To remember, the corresponding five-year period in the year of the success story and the great return to growth - the Samara government, I mean - what rate was it? Now he had 3.6%. In 2014, if I remember correctly, it was 4,95%, Mr. Voridis. The comparison is therefore catalytic. And that's why you didn't mention it. On the contrary, you tried to compare 3.6% with Portugal's interest rates, saying Portugal achieved a 1% interest rate. Her ten years was 1.90%. This comparison is unfortunate. Because it is another thing about debt, the effort to get out of the market and the situation in Greece than it is in Portugal. First of all, the interest rate is not in the way of comparison. Spread's coming in. Comparing spreads, comparing the base difference, to see if it's any effort. We will not compare 3.6% with 1% as you said, which is not 1%. And why can't we compare them? First of all, we're not talking about the same debt. The difference, however, which makes the comparison unsuccessful is that Portugal has six to seven times more credit ratings than Greece. It therefore has a different ability to leave the market and at a different interest rate. This difference in credit rating - six to seven times over us Portugal - is above us - even if we have a continuous upgrade of Greece's credit rating every six months, it takes three years to close. So when the market anticipated that our current exit would be at a base rate of 3.83%, 3.6% cannot be considered a failure for Greece. Also, Portugal is in a Quantitative Relaxation program. You asked for it for Greece as well. Of course, integration into a Qualitarisation Program means agreement, meaning a kind of memorandum, some commitments. What I want to say now in terms of quantitative relaxation is that it is now ending for Portugal too, because what the European Central Bank has to wear down has absorbed it. So we cannot compare the interest rate that Greece has achieved for the five-year period at which Portugal has an interest rate, are quite different things. But we can well compare the 2019 interest rate, 3.6%, with the 2014 interest rate, which was 4.95%, we are talking about the same five-year bond. It is understandable, however, that the effort to degrade the great importance of the successful exit into the market, because that is where opposition has been formulated as a whole. One - but one, your arguments begin to collapse. I have heard a number of things, beyond the exit into the market, from representatives of counter-population not only about the bill, but also about many other issues. I've heard a lot about the Prespecies Agreement. But we did not hear that it is an agreement that solves decades' outstandingities, that it is an agreement that resold Greece at the forefront of the international political scene as a pole of cooperation, peace, stability and solidarity in the sensitive region of the Balkans, that in reality we are regaining Macedonia's name that you insist that we have sold it out and that the slogans of insistence on 'a unique and Greek Macedonia' actually raise the issue of the Bucharest agreement of 1913. I have heard from the Opposition attempting to cancel and the efforts made by SYRIZA at European, but also at Greek level to open up a dialogue, a debate on a new centre-left. I heard Mr. Koutsoukos performing this too. It is, however, a dialogue that has opened for good and at European level. In fact, on the part of PASOK, I would expect answers on this issue and, above all, explanations of the great distance that it has from the respective positions of the Socialist Party. In addition, I have heard from the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Georganta, to reject what is provided for in the bill because - he says - we always go ahead with exceptions and derogations to the system of appointments. We have, as he said attributes, made 15 interventions in the last few years to exclude recruitment in various ministries and mentioned two examples. First, report the cleaners. There seems to be a problem in the New Democracy when it comes to re-entrying cleaners. Secondly, he also mentioned regional journalists, ignoring that it was also a request from regional authorities, because the new role played by the regions in the major issue of the absorption of the NRP funds, where there is a specific area for publicity, was considered to be essential the professional adequacy of those who would have this sector and the presumption of professional competence in offices for journalism is their membership of the Author Associations. For the bill, therefore, and because it was said that the government as a whole has not made any reform effort, I would remind you in a few seconds, to finish, Mr President, the great and basic reform of the state by means of the process called into question by the New Democracy, in the selection of the Secretary-General. He doubts that he has said that he is not in agreement with this procedure. Considers that it is a political position, the Secretary-General should therefore be appointed by the ruling party. We proceeded to a valuable system of selection of managers, to a transparent single mobility system, according to digital organograms and job profiles, so that we have an effective human resources management and a new system of evaluation of civil servants, with a view not to redundancies as in the past, but to optimising the performance of officials and the public as a whole. And, of course, we have started and are implementing the strategy for counter-corruption in the public sector. These are a few of the reform steps we have attempted. Next time. Here we are, and here we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Kutsuko, would you like to clarify something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u292	I would like, as a parliamentary representative, to have a slight second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u293	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u294	Because you're too strict, I'm trying to be typical with you. Do you understand, Mr. President? I would like to make three comments: The first comment is on the eggs and baskets of Mr Tsakalotou. He addressed the New Democracy, with shots and the rest of the opposition, where he puts the eggs, Mr. Mitsotakis. I would like to say, Mr President, that I hope that Mr Tsakalotos will not lose his eggs and baskets, and that to celebrate a very limited version of confessions and organised at a small audience, at a rate which, in any way, can be measured, either by spreads or by net performance, is a lot of what is going on in the other countries of the South, and even in countries which were within a memorandum, I think this is an exaggeration. At a time when, in order to form the most famous pillow, the buffer has increased the public debt by 25 billion in 2016-2018 and by which our banks are tested because the government has been unable to deal with the issue of red loans. So the epic risk is visible and I hope that political developments do not prove too dangerous to serve the public debt in the way the government is dealing with. This is my comment and it's very careful, because sometimes Mr. Chakalotos blames us for being in danger. My second comment relates to the speech by Mrs Christodoulopoulos, who is Vice-President of the House, who referred to the independent authorities and told us that when neoliberalism is defeated, they will be abolished by the new political connections. SYRIZA, therefore - Mr President, if I am not mistaken, if I am not mistaken, the Revision Committee of the Constitution - has the golden opportunity now that the Revision of the Constitution has been discussed to tell us which of the independent authorities established by PASOK in 2001 wants to abolish. For I would remind the independent authorities that they are both auditing and regulatory. In order to reach agreement in this House on the limits of parliamentaryism and the distinction of powers. Because a party cannot come and basically put us through the window, a state-of-the-art concept of not wanting any control from anyone. Because, basically, that is the independent authorities. My third comment, Mr President, concerns the fact that we have been accused - rightly so - of this is their job, the SYRIZA speakers and the last speaker, of not recognising their reforms. Take note of what I said in my position as a parliamentary representative. I said that there are flagrant reforms which have been reflected in public awareness and which are defending them today by parties that then fought them. So when SYRIZA manages to establish a reform in the consciousness of the public, as an effective one, then come to tell us. These three comments I wanted to make. The draft law referred to our rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Kretsos wants something to clarify, and then the Minister has it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u296	Excuse me, Mr. Crecho. Mr President, this is all about you. I see that the amendment has been registered at 17.50 hours. You remember that last time, with Mr Voutsis' intervention here, the debate was extended, precisely because there was a misuse of the amendments. No conclusions have been drawn, neither have you nor the government? So we will bring amendments here until the end of the debate, so that there can be no real debate? Why, Mr Cretso, now that you have postponed the payment of the channellords, Mr Juliarakis, in a circle, is scanning the reserves of the bodies and bodies of the general government. On the one hand, we gather together to have the most famous pillow and, on the other hand, we give a trawl to those who have to. Can you explain that to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Crechos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u298	How much time do I have? Two minutes. I'm sorry, I'm not a parliamentary expert. However, I would like to say that the documentation of the amendment was very specific. TV stations for the first time, Mr. Koutsouko and Mr. Georganta, pay for the concession of the public good, called a spectrum. And I say this to you, Mr Katsotis, because you too once had a frequency that you somehow sold to an offshore. We - I said it in the amendment - are also interested in the regulation and legality that has taken place. And this government brought her after several attempts and attempts. And, unfortunately, Mr Voridis - who you are laughing at - you have made everything not to happen and now you are going out very sensitive because the canalarchs are not paying. I tell you, the canals will pay, and perhaps all five canals may come by 31 January to pay. We are simply giving a facility - indeed it is a facility - cash flowers, if they pay three months later, because they have already paid three months earlier. And why? Because the law we brought was too strict. We are talking about four hundred at least full-time workers, Mr Voridis. You said there was no need for a minimum number of workers. How do you characterize that? I'm saying it was a gift to the complication. And you and KINAL fought it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u299	Let's focus on our subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u300	Let's concentrate, then. I think the regulation is painless. No dose has been postponed. A facility is given for those who want to use it. And please, especially in the field of regulating the broadcasting landscape, you have left your print very clearly, not only because you never make a competition, but also because you have never been interested. And when we tried it, you basically acted as self-determined defenders of the canalarchs' wallet. I could go on. I'll only tell you four numbers for the end. For frequency charges we collected about 25 million euros, while you left them in drawers. The TV ad tax on Law 3845 was suspended by you, Mr. Koutsuko. At the same time, on the last day, with the basilopita cutting, you were following up on this particular legality regime, with temporary authorizations, while we received 175 million from the television advertising tax. There is now a competition for two remaining television licences. Therefore, there will be more revenue. I could also continue by saying about the closure of the ERT and about the competition - the 'DIGEA' and the lack of frequency safeguards, etc. Let's not talk rope at the hanger's house.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u301	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, after the Minister, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u303	The process has been overdue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u304	There's so many things in here! Are we gonna be told here again? Bullshit anti-communist, is to hide his processions, this challenge, cooperation with the Canadians! He wants to cover this scandal. It is not enough that the price went far beyond a decade, is now coming with various facilities, telling us what? That the first time he imposes a price?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u305	...when the battle for television licenses was being given to go to the channels of the canalarchs and defend lawlessness.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u306	Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u307	Public frequencies are public. I don't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u308	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank all the Members, the rapporteurs, the speakers, who have spoken for both their comments and their comments. I think that our effort, both within the committee and today, was to have an essential debate on a crucial issue, such as public administration, its operation in the interests of the public interest, the citizen and the country. You will allow me, before I go to the specific issues - to give answers to the issues that have been raised and to make three political comments. I cannot avoid it because there have been certain positions - I particularly emphasise the position of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Javarra, but also of others - which were out of the climate of the overall creative debate that we had done on the draft law. So I have three things to say. First of all, the SYRIZA Government took a vote of confidence under the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, just 15 days ago. Here it is trying to highlight a part of the Opposition, which is constantly, and above all the Civic Opposition, that is, whether there is or there is no confidence. It's a clear matter. Under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, the Prime Minister called for and took the vote of confidence, precisely to continue the implementation of a specific government work, in which the draft law we are debating today is also the one. I would say that, although I do not like to use it, neither the Constitution nor the Rules of the House should, therefore, be manipulated according to what we are doing here. It is also cultivated - and this is the second observation - an artificial tension. For it is another thing about political confrontation, about the different policies, which are a health for democracy. Especially in this period, after the memoranda that shows the different policies and the two main cities of expression of these policies, on the one hand, the progressive left and the policies that the government is currently implementing creates a wider progressive bloc and, on the other, the neoliberal and conservative, unfortunately, with far-right elements, as is apparent in the public speech. ‘But the artificial intensity, which is cultivated throughout the previous period by levelling and destructive. The Minister for Economic Affairs was also mentioned. The question that existed for every step of either exiting the memorandum or the conditions to be taken in terms of pensioning, which was ultimately guaranteed, of course, and the successful exit to the markets today, which, in the end, is something that we should probably all unite and enjoy. When we say'regain sovereignty', we mean that sovereignty is recovered in many ways, step by step and all fields. It's a part of sovereignty too. But they have heard, and this is the third point, a number of things that I consider to be unacceptable and undemocratic, and that has nothing to do with national issues. There have been phrases, such as 'Macedonia', 'the minimum wage for Macedonia'. But is that possible? There has been a whole debate here on the Prespecies Agreement. All the opinions have been heard. There has been a national position since 2008. On this position was the negotiation, which resulted in the Prespecies Agreement and received a clear majority, just a few days ago in this House, an agreement beneficial to our country, to the Balkans and to Europe as a whole. So I would say that, as it was unacceptable that the Chief of Staff, as well as the Chief of Staff, had been involved in a pension transaction, it is equally unacceptable to link a national issue to an agreement, which has now been ratified by the Greek Parliament, on either the recruitment or the minimum wage. Issues expressing the different policy of this government. And because they're considered self-evident and data, I'll say that for the recruitments it's not like that. Because the party itself, through its Chief, at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, stated that one of the main themes, which they announce and believe, is the return to the hardest memorial rules of one to five. So, on the one hand, how are these policies and, on the other, unacceptable trade declarations? This is a clear policy, which also has institutional elements, and that is why we are pursuing the broadest consensus, but it also has a clear ideological and political sign. As far as the big question is concerned, why are we now tabling this draft law? This is because our country has now come out of the memoranda in the past few months. Because now the rule one by one, of recruitments, starting from 2019, where according to rule one of the departures, which have been made by the end of December, amount to nine thousand forty recruitments. Because now we need to support the AACC, which has been entrusted with a very large volume of work and many responsibilities, so that everything can be done properly, in accordance with the law, in a transparent manner. On the other hand, because we have no purpose - and we are making an institutional change, for the benefit of the country - from the very beginning and without hesitating at all, we have accepted the two proposals made by the rapporteur of the New Democracy with regard to future recruitments, namely the recruitment of 2020, because the Government is moving forward on the basis of the mandate it has, and the vote of confidence, and is implementing its programme. And that's where we were clear. This seems to me to be the best proof that, in this case, we are not legislating because we want the 'logues' or to create expectations or nothing like that. We think that is the right thing to do. In fact, in a somewhat ironic way, Mr. Javaras said: “Why are you talking about strategic recruitment planning... [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, please, I will need two minutes because a lot of things have been said. The reason why we put the word'strategic' is why we do not place recruitment, as an end, as a war, but rather the opposite. We are talking about a strategic analysis of public needs, their interconnection with the country's overall development and productive and social reconstruction strategy, to make this public administration useful in this direction and of course within the country's financial framework. These are the three pillars of our strategic recruitment plan and I cannot understand why any party in this House at the moment has a problem with such an analysis, which forms an institutional framework, in relation to the country's real needs, above all, and the public sector. With regard to the issues raised for the SAEP. It is clear to support the ADP. It is clear in every way, because we give him the possibility of programming, which he did not have and which he did not ask for. All the provisions were drawn up in cooperation with the AACC, with respect for its independence and its role. Because we give him the opportunity to speed up these procedures, to simplify them - because that also concerns us as a public interest, but also for the citizens, and by strengthening it with staff. They are not provisions, as Mr Javarras said, on the basis of how Parliament and the Chambers decide. Obviously, Mr Javarras had not studied properly because we had discussed these issues in committee. I am sorry to respond in his absence, but I also tried with my earlier speech to respond to some issues. Because it concerns the credibility of the AACC, when two sections of the AACC determine the candidates' qualifications differently, and there are notices which go to the courts, such as judicial officers and have a problem. We are therefore defending credibility and supporting the ADP and we are not making internal arrangements. The AACC is an administrative authority and not a judiciary. Parliament therefore gives a final interpretation, as it deems, in order to ensure equality and equality without problems. In addition, we support ADP staff with secondments and in the future we also hope with permanent staff. We are making arrangements for computer and digital documentation in order to enable the AACC to play its new role. I now come to the point where I think it has become the biggest warfare to the draft law, and it is also institutional arrangements, which one would think would have a better reception. As far as the Advisory Council is concerned, it is an advisory board that is set up precisely because we are entering a phase of strategic development of the public administration, so that all actors have a support - from the Ministry of Finance for Budget, the Ministry of Digital Transformation, the Ministry of Interior for Self-Government, another large part of the public administration, the EMCDDA, the ADEDY, university experts on these issues - in order to raise matters, evaluate and make the necessary contributions. With regard to the famous Public Administration Observatory, for which so much discussion has been held, and technical assistance, I repeat - and Mr Voridis, please, I would like to make this clear - it does not cost a million euros. I mention it because it was written and said against Coron. I want to be clear. The operational costs of setting up the Observatory and this new structure, technical assistance, this special secretariat is EUR 87 000. EUR 280,000, including EUR 87,000, is the wage cost, which the General Accounting Office values for transfers and secondments. However, these are no extra costs for the state koruna. They are people who, anyway, paid for other positions and simply switched. It's not an extra cost. I want to be clear about that, because there has been parasiology. I understand there might be a mistrust that there's something behind it. Although with the recruitments, we have proved that we are not appropriate. We are transparent about what we are seeking. Therefore, the operational costs for this new sectoral secretariat with the observatory and technical assistance are EUR 87,000. Let us be clear. That's what we're talking about. The other positions we propose to the Ministry's establishment plan...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u310	Transitions don't have a cost? When you distract employees from a job and take them elsewhere, is that for free?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u311	Please, Mr. Voridis, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u312	Transitions and secondments means that their wages, which they already receive, will continue to be received in the new service. I mean, no recruitment. In any case, this one million you say does not apply. It's EUR 87,000 operating expenses.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u313	Where did you come
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Voridis, you've been in Stepma for quite a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u315	I want to make it clear, because there is a debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u316	I apologise, Mr President, for the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u317	No, you don't have to apologize. It's not a court of law here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u318	Mr Vorides, I would like a debate to be held to clarify them, because we will also be voting on the articles afterwards. Every Member of Parliament will, of course, vote with his conscience and his political opinion. But at least it is clear what we are voting on and what a contradiction it has. Also, because a great deal has been said about the large state and the secretaries, I would like to say that the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction is a ministry which has a Minister and Secretary-General. We don't have a State Secretary or a sectoral secretariat. But we have a great need and we are trying to meet the requirements of administrative reconstruction. The structures that we are establishing do not overlap with the competence of another body. The previous observatory was a narrow structure, which is not functioning and which we are abolishing with this bill and we are setting up an observatory, which will have the prestige, to make the collection and use of data, as well as the monitoring of public administration reforms. For technical assistance, for digital organograms, for all these aspects of the reforms I have been detailed. I would like to say a few words, because a lot has been said about mobility. Mobility is currently, in the second wave of 2018, about five and a half thousand seats, which are already in the final phase, because there were positions and stakeholders. This is proof that digital organograms are now working. That is why we have had the leap to mobility. Mobility seems to me to be one of the largest institutional areas within the public administration, as it comes to responding to the real qualifications of officials and the needs of the public, without internal relations within the public administration. I believe that the success of mobility also proves it. Mr Koutsoukos is not here, but I think he raised a point about fake documents. I would like to point out that exactly with Article 33, which we have in this bill, we are strengthening the control that is being carried out. That is why there is provision for self-regulatory control. I think Mr Ballis also stressed this and many of SYRIZA Members. An automatic check shall be provided for each case before a civil servant takes up duties. And in the nine thousand forty departures of 2018, which I mentioned in relation to recruitment, there are also two hundred forty cases, which are redundancies, after disciplinary misconduct. Because it is another thing to fight for the dignity and democratic organisation of public administration, and another to have a public administration with a clear vine and at the expense of the public interest. Now, as far as the amendments are concerned. Four ministerial amendments have already been supported by fellow ministers. I shall refer to the five amendments from our Ministry and a parliamentary amendment. So I begin with the amendment with Protocol No 1931/24, which has two provisions. Here, firstly, as far as the AACC was concerned, for some time now, from previous laws, the provision that, when the AACC carried out the notices and the procedure for selecting staff, a part of the budget is transferred by the institutions to the AACC to cover its expenses. What, however, did happen in practice? This amount was either paid too slowly or was not paid at all. Here, then, we are resolving this issue. At the request of the AACC, we clarify this provision and state that 30% must be paid by every body that serves, because the AACC is forming committees, has costs, has a number of issues and has to cope with them. The second provision of the amendment concerns the electronic submission of supporting documents, which I think the Members of this House have asked for, and Mr Karavokouris said that there will be this possibility from 1-1-2020. So we also had to bring in a provision that would make this possible. Obviously, the ASA must enter the digital age. The second amendment, with a general protocol number 1933 and a special number 26, is to be followed - it is an amendment that we are tabling together with the Minister for the Interior, Mr Haritsis, and of course with the Finance Ministers, and it concerns mobility on a specific subject. It concerns temporary staff, the IDAC, where there was a difficulty in mobility, and this is mainly about the municipalities, to make it clearer. By law of the Samara government, the positions of indefinite duration had then been abolished by the organograms of the municipalities. And now, mobility has the potential for either permanent or indefinite posts. That's what's maintained. There was, however, the phenomenon to the municipalities of not moving permanent employees - a major problem in all the municipalities of the country - but indefinitely over time, which cannot be moved. Here, then, we are resolving this issue as follows: clearly, the lead for every post in mobility for a permanent official is the official. If a permanent official does not appear, and if an IDAC employee is qualified, then he can be moved and we will be dealing with this big problem in the municipalities, as well as in other public services. I come to the third amendment under Protocol No 1934/27.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u319	Madam Minister, the amendments are already known.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u320	Shouldn't I present them? Two more amendments. I do so in order to facilitate the vote, because we had not developed them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u321	Let her, Mr President, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u322	I respect Parliament, Mr Voridis. Respect for Parliament and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Voridis says he doesn't have any questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u324	The other amendment concerns the Service Council at the AACC for qualified scientific staff. He's in touch again with the SAAP. I don't think he's causing a problem. The fourth amendment is protocol number 1935/28. I referred to my first talk about it. It concerns days of leave, due to sickness, where an adjustment is made, as regards threeteen and tenteen mothers, and mothers of single parents. There is a logic of social provisions, and here I believe that, in the spirit of broader consensus, there will be no problem with regard to the social aspects of public administration. Finally, the amendment with Protocol No 1936/29 concerns, as you know, the notice 97 of the IAS which was completed after twenty years and was a government commitment. These civil servants, who are now normally integrated into public administration, are recognized a spiritual time in terms of their development. Also, with regard to the General Secretariat of Government Coordination, some specific issues are dealt with for officials working there on the personal dispute. Finally, with regard to the EMRP's amendment concerning the possibility of exempting one year from the mobility system until it acquires the permanent posts, which is entitled to 2020, and the President of the EMRP at the hearing of the bodies requested it, we can accept it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the extra year. Like I said, by closing my first talk, we only have one purpose. We have neither secret agendas nor any other pursuits. We want to safeguard in this new era for our country, a public administration of democratic, independent, developmental and social interests for the public interest and Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-nine students and students and three educational attendances from the Tripolis Music Gymnasium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction is adjourned: "The strengthening of the Higher Council for Personnel Selection (ASE).), the strengthening and upgrading of public administration and other provisions’, and the vote will take place by means of a written vote. Before I begin, however, I would like to inform you that, in cases (b) and (c) of paragraph 1 of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, a roll-call vote shall take place when there are objections to the result of the vote, and in any event where the President considers it necessary. In accordance with the standard practice we have in the vote, the parliamentary groups are voting through their rapporteurs. This is not the procedure for independent Members who now number the sixteen. So, in what articles does not appear to be the required majority in the votes of the rapporteurs of the parliamentary groups, a roll-call vote will be taken on these articles, so that independent Members, not represented by any parliamentary group, in accordance with Rule 72(1)(b) and (c) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, will also be cast. So we shall start the vote at first reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u326	I would like a moment, Mr President, to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u327	You're welcome, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u328	Allow me. If a majority is not formed, why will there be a roll-call vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u329	In every article - not all of the articles - because there is this phenomenon that you know about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u330	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u331	The independent Members, who are more than a recognised parliamentary group, as you can see, Mr Voridis, and you understand that - and I do not think you are in the mood for noise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u332	No, I'm not in the mood for noise. Allow me, Mr President. I am in the mood to understand the provisions you are moving forward with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u333	I already read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u334	May I? Do I have the floor, first? I don't want to break anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u335	You're welcome, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u336	So there should be a vote. In the vote, there is one result. This result can be seen from you, Mr President, in accordance with Rule 70 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u337	Article 72.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u338	No, it's not Article 72.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Voridis, it's Article 72.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u340	It's not. Article 72 is of the nominal amount.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u341	I read you in particular, you heard it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u342	Would you allow me to say my view fully and then exchange views and contradict it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u343	Yeah, tell her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u344	Article 69 concerns general provisions on voting. Paragraph 4 states: "The determination of the presence required by the Constitution or the Rules of Procedure of Members to hold the vote and take a decision shall be one of the President of Parliament". You must say whether there is the required number of Members and you must say whether the majority is formed. You have to say that. So you'll look at the Chamber. The parties in the Chamber will tell you whether or not they agree with an article. And you have to answer. If the parties disagree, the article is rejected. Why are you holding a roll-call vote? Will you see that there is a majority? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u345	Are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u346	Yes, as far as the matter is concerned, I am waiting for your answer, bearing in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u347	Yes, of course. I have read the specific Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u348	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u349	What he says when there is a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u350	72.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u351	I reminded you of the political aspect of the thinking, because it is not a matter of perceptive competence, Mr Voridis. Obviously, you have it. We are talking about the political part and the substance of the Rules of Procedure. I told you that an unprecedented post-military phenomenon occurs in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u352	That you're a minority?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u353	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u354	What? That?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u355	So I read you that it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u356	What are you talking about? Isn't that the unprecedented one? We have no other unprecedented. That's unprecedented, that you're a minority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Voridis, repetition is a mother of learning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u358	I'm very receptive to learning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u359	But sometimes a lot of repetition is counterproductive. You understood what I said, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u360	I get it. I read the provisions, unless you tell me, Mr President, and that is what you say - that you yourself in any case...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u361	Yeah, that's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u362	Is that what you're telling me, that you're going to find it necessary, and what does that mean? That you will find below that you are a minority and then, after you notice that you are a minority, you will judge, instead of saying that the provision has been rejected, because notice what you say to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u363	I have...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u364	I ask you, why is that not correct, and it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u365	No, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u366	Listen, the House is voting. Is he voting or not voting? When he votes, he decides. What can we name it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u367	So I told you, look, Mr. Voridis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u368	The House voted and decided. So listen, you come and say 'Let's vote and if I don't like the result of the vote, we'll make a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u369	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u370	That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u371	That's your interpretation. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u372	No, that's what you're saying, or tell me how you're doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u373	What's your interest, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u374	I am interested in rejecting the bill and not being able to legislate. That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u375	Listen a little. Your interest...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u376	I have a clear interest not to legislate as a minority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Voridis, let go of the dome runs, they're counterproductive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u378	No, they're not counterproductive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u379	If you're interested...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u380	They found you the wrong provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u381	No, please. I read them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u382	Take them back, bring you the right ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u383	No, I read you the layout. In any case, your interest is to see the majority if any. Well, you will find this in the slightest detail, in the way I read to you and confirmed in the specific Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u384	What's the way? Mr President, will the House vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u385	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u386	I ask you: will the House vote, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Voridis, I told you how the House will vote and you'll see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u388	In Rule 15 - and I am speaking in particular - the disagreement of ANELs is expressed, registered in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u389	Yeah, I told you, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u390	We'll see if they repeat it or not. If it is repeated, Mr President, has the House decided or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u391	I have described exactly what will happen if they repeat it. It doesn't make any sense. We're on now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u392	What's gonna happen? If they repeat it, will we vote again by roll call?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u393	No, what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u394	Are we going to vote again on a roll-call vote after Parliament has decided? This - I beg your pardon, Mr President - is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u395	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u396	No, it's not nice or easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u397	It's not nice for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u398	Listen: you are abrogating the majority of Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u399	No, it's not abolished, it's barely...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u400	You're removing it! It takes the decision and then you come and say 'we don't like the decision, we'll count again'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u401	Mr. Voridis, you are making a number of reasonable leaps in order to establish a point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u402	No jump. You two have jumped.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u403	Please. I explained to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u404	Oh, no. You explained something to me that... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u405	So you do not want to see if there is a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u406	You see, Mr President. I don't see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u407	Okay. We don't conflict, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u408	We oppose, but you must see, in this vote whether there is a majority or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u409	Well, we don't dispute, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u410	How do we proceed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u411	We are moving forward in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u412	What did we say? Guys, it's not her... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u413	Well, we're moving on to the vote at first. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u415	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u419	The rapporteur for the ANLL has said that he is voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u420	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u421	Well, he's said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u422	Are we going insane?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u423	No, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u424	Mr President, because you do not have the majority, you do not vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u425	No, that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u426	Mr. President, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u427	All right, let's calm down now. He's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u428	Why can't we, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u429	The vote is now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u430	Don't hit the seat. It can be done tomorrow. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u431	So you want to. Pick up and do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u432	That's right. Good. No, that's not the thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u433	That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u434	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u435	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u436	Here, Mr. Giola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u437	Mr President, the point and the substance of and the substance of the ratio of the law on Parliament's vote is to find out whether the required figure of 50 Members is actually being raised. So far, according to the terms of office and if a majority of one or both of them are achieved, we have proceeded with the presumption that all the parliamentary power of each party is summed up and that the votes are created, which are necessary. Now, we have a special case where SYRIZA can be regarded as the minority government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u438	Like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u439	However, we cannot take into account the will, the expressed will and the vote of all the current Members of Parliament, whether they belong to parties or are independent. That is why, if, as you have rightly started, the majority of the existing parties, as expressed at the moment, are not going to have to be asked whether or not a certain number of sixteen independent MPs should be asked, which can only be achieved in a parliament in plenary session. In other words, it is in your judgment that you will proceed with the provisions which can be voted on or not, otherwise we will call on all Members of this House tomorrow to take a position precisely, democratically and by an absolute majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u440	This, in advance of the vote. Nominal vote for everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u441	Who's asking for it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u442	The President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u443	Good. Tomorrow, after the vote on waivers of immunity, there will be a roll-call vote. I would like to announce some requests for the absence of Members here. Congressman Nikolaos Dendias asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad from February 4 to February 7, 2019, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u444	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member Georgios Koumoutsakos requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 31 January to 1 February 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u445	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP Mr Constantine Koukodimos asks for permission from a few days' absence to go abroad - to Zurich - from 30 January to 1 February 2019 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u446	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member, Maria Antoniou, shall request permission from a short-day absence to proceed from 4 February to 5 February 2019 in Brussels for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u447	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-29-S1-commons.u448	With the consent of the House at 19.29' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 30 January 2019 at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) discussion and decision on applications for waiver of immunity of Members, in accordance with the special agenda distributed and b) holding the roll-call vote.
