ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 7-2-2019 authorisation, the minutes of the OA's meeting of Thursday, 7 February 2019, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Integration into Greek law: (a) Directive (EU) 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies and (b) Article 1 of Council Directive (EU) 2017/2455 of 5 December 2017’]] Before entering the agenda of the legislative work, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question issue to the House on Monday 11 February 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 331/5-2-2019 topical question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Reported abolition of DU Acharon". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 328/4-2-2019 topical question by Congressman I Athens of New Democracy Mr Kikilia to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Crisis of the Supreme Leader in the Armed Forces (ED)". 3. The question by No 316/29-1-2019 by MP Laconia of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the conduct of patients from the EKA in intensive treatment units due to the lack of medical personnel". 4. The 332/5-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on "the chronic problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PANGN)". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 329/4-2-2019 topical question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Creation of the Bran Branch of Hospital / Oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 322/4-2-2019 topical question by Congressman Larisa of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on "Summaries of chemistry". 3. The number 336/5-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance about the "providing the real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD)". 4. The Question No 307/28-1-2019 by MP Trikala of the New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Skrekas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Healthy hotel businesses are at risk of "liquette" on account of VAT charging". 5. The question by No. 299/28-1-2019 of the current question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR. Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increased insanity in Serres Law and the Serres Police Department has been subordinated." 6. The 283/21-1-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the Supreme Council demanding the lenders of fifty of the public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 281/21-1-2019 topical question by Independent MEP II Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Environmental cooperatives". 8. The Question No 262/9-1-2019 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Emergent need to increase the military service". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 2932/31-10-2018 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on "Democracy of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School of Athens". Also, I have some announcements to make. Firstly, the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Following the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia’. Secondly, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: “Definition of 24 January 2019 the Convention on the extension of the ‘Airport Development Convention’, signed in Athens on 31 July 1995 and ratified by Mr. Regulation (EC) No 2338/1995 (A'202).’; Thirdly, the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, Minister of Home Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Citizen Protection, Finance, Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure and Transport, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Maritime Policy, Economy and Development, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development and Economic Affairs, submitted a draft law on 7-2-2019: "To ratify the concessions concluded between the Greek Government and the Port Authoritys - Provisions for the functioning of the port governance system and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 6 February 2019 to discuss the draft law at only one single meeting on principle and on articles. In view of the particular importance of the Convention, we propose that all the rapporteurs and special speakers and one of the Independent Members should be placed, so that there is an equal number of Members. A single list has been drawn up including a circle of fourteen speakers, designated by the parliamentary groups, whose representation has been calculated in proportion to their parliamentary power. We are proposing that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the speakers should finally speak for ten minutes, despite what is proposed in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary representatives are also proposing that they speak for ten minutes too. Likewise, the other ministers other than the Minister responsible for which we are proposing to speak for eighteen minutes. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u3	We do not agree, Madam President. Yesterday in committee the rapporteurs and the special speakers had fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u4	No, you had five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u5	How not? After we talked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u6	That's where I was at the conference. You think I don't know? This morning we changed five minutes to ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u7	I'm talking about the committee yesterday. In committee, we had 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u8	We cannot have more time in committee than in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u9	This does not bind the House. In any case, the proposal has been made. So we start the debate. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Toskas has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, we have an objection of constitutionality, so that it does not come to a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u11	Yeah, but you've done it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u12	It's on the substance of the Constitution. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u13	It's not Mr. Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u14	Don't start, Madam President. It's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u15	It's not wrong. The objection of unconstitutionalism is discussed at any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u16	It's essentially on the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u17	I know her. Didn't you say the same thing about the press last night?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u18	Whatever we want to say!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u19	Read Article 28(1).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u20	Article 28(1) shall apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u21	It's wrong what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u22	All right, wait! We'll keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u23	It's essentially on the point. It must not be introduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u24	Sir, the legal issues are unsolved. [[Noise - protests from the Golden Dawn wing]] Sit down. At any time it's being discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u25	Will you forbid the man to say his opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u26	I won't forbid. At some point, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u27	Now, before the process begins, give the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u28	Any time I judge. Why does it seem strange to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u29	Are you going to make up your mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u30	You could have tabled it before the vote. There's no legality about what time the objections are filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u31	Read Article 100. You don't know that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u32	I don't know, I've been waiting for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u33	At first we have to discuss it. You're wrong, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u34	Let Mr. Toskas begin. Your objection will be heard. Here, Mr. Toska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the ratification of this bill, the steps and obligations of the Greek side are being implemented in accordance with the provisions of the agreement already approved by the House of Ambassadors, Article 2. The ratification of the protocol is necessary, but it is not enough for the neighbouring country to participate in NATO, since it will also require approval by the parliaments or governments of the twenty-nine countries - members of the organisation. Two words about history. To date NATO has twenty-nine members. Since 1949 various enlargements have been made. The previous country, which had entered the organisation, was Montenegro in 2017. Before it was Albania and Croatia and so on. On 6 February 2019, the Protocol of Accession of Northern Macedonia was signed by the permanent representatives to the Agency and sent to the Member States for ratification. Thus, after ratification by all Member States, the Agency will consist of thirty Member States. In the intervening period, the neighbouring country will have a role to play without participation in decision-making. Two words now on the contents of the bill which was discussed and analysed in committee yesterday. So only the main points are mentioned. It shall have three articles in the Protocol, which shall provide: Whereas, with the entry into force of the Protocol, the Secretary-General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation will send on behalf of the Contracting Parties to the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia an invitation to join the North Atlantic Treaty. Article 2 provides that the protocol to be ratified will enter into force as soon as each of the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty notifys the Government of the United States of America of acceptance of the Protocol. Article 3 provides that the texts in English and French are equally authentic and shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the United States of America. From the application of the provisions of the Protocol to be ratified, no charge shall be charged to the State budget or a reduction in its revenue. For example, for the time being, our country's financial participation in NATO is one of the smallest: 0.9801% of the Agency's total budget. We are now entering the essence of the debate. There have been a number of concerns yesterday, and we have to think about it, we have to think about what will happen if all agreements are to be dismantled and so the neighbouring country without a collective umbrella is found. The neighbouring country, as did Professor Alivizatos, has mentioned, like others, is most likely to be introduced into the international organizations under its previous constitutional name, that is to say, 'Macedonia'. As far as the impact is concerned, it will have appeared that Europe cannot integrate a small country into a sensitive region of the Balkans. And this will confirm the criticisms of a weak Europe, thus broadening the gap within NATO, and at the same time opening up hors d'oeuvres to third parties. We will have a country in the north most likely an ally of Turkey, as took place after 1992 and after the prestigious policy that has been pursued since then. We will probably have destabilisation in the region and perhaps a divided country so that conditions can be created for a large Albania and a large Bulgaria. And we will also have a country in our north that will be a land to resolve the differences between major powers, which is obviously not of interest to us. Because we obviously do not want this country to be a felony of contentious eyelids, escalating to many, in the context of the perpetuation of the Balkan issue that has been opened since the 19th century because of the legacy of the former Ottoman Empire. It helps us as a country of northern Macedonia not to be the goal of dividing ambitious demagogues from either side, nor to be the target of various spheres of influence in the name of ghosts of pan-Slavism, pamacedonian, Islamic arc, ideological inventions that so badly devastated the Balkans and also vacuated our own people and other peoples in the Balkans last century. Obviously, we cannot be associated with any nationalism, whether it is a grand or nationalism associated with a great Albania or with a great Bulgaria, because this actually means artificial subjugation of 'local' nationalism, unscrupulous, which promote slogans, such as that Macedonia is a Greek, moving towards the revision of the Treaties and borders before the Balkan Wars as if the Treaty of Bucharest did not interfere with us. It is undoubtedly in favour of the constant and long-term interests of the country and the Greek people that the consolidation of this independent state, with which we have a common interest in co-development for the benefit of our national economy and whose existence is lauding expansional views of others, as manifested in Kosovo, for example. It provides greater stability for the region, the existence of the neighboring country in a collective system, no matter what problems it may have, rather than a ballot, since this country is small and weak. Realism and geopolitical conditions require that we close forwards. We must avoid the Balkans' 'valkanisation', the influence of Ankara and others. Those who want foreheads openly to rally far-right elements and frighten the inner "eagle", let them think about the practices that led to the unfortunate war in 1897. And I mean the National Society, the forefathers, that is, the Golden Dawn, who have always undermined the country, whether by swastika or not. And because some unscrupulous people said that Turkey is favoured, we can see who has benefited from our own inertia. In 1992, that is to say immediately after the break-up of the former Yugoslavia, then President Gligorov, the first leader of the neighbouring country to recognize that their history was a Slavic, visits Ankara. We did not take advantage of Mr Samaras' views at the time when the conditions were more favourable and no dangerous concepts were established, as was the case with the younger generations in the neighbouring country. In 1993 and then Turkish President Ozal returns the visit to Skopje. In February 1994 the nineteen-month embargo was imposed by our country and systematic trade and military aid to Turkey began. A signature for military co-operation with Turkey has been preceded. There is, of course, financial Turkish aid in the course of the Kosovo crisis in 1999. As far as what is going on in this region is concerned, I will also be allowed some personal experiences, because in 1996 in Sarajevo, Bosnia, I was the head of an Intelligence Officer, and I was also the commander of the Arma Superintendent at Polykastro Kilkis, from 1991 to 1993. And I could say a great deal about fuel trains to Milosevic and technical preparations that would cost our sovereignty at the eastern border. And I was there when they were ammunition handed over in 2001. I could also make a tough criticism there, because it is doubtful whether we had to get involved in the civilization of the region. The refusal to ratify the Protocol leads, as far as the New Democracy is concerned, to a clear contradiction in foreign policy with its traditional commitment to NATO and the European Union. And, of course, that is not the attitude that he is supposed to put on top of everything, ignoring the wishes of NATO, the Americans and European partners. It is simply proof of New Democracy's submission to the far right wing. It is proof that the leadership of the New Democracy, contrary to the principles it ought to defend, considers national, patriotic what it thinks party - in its narrow sense - to be in the interest of a controversial electoral gain. But also with this criterion, except that it will not come out, given that it leads the country to a reduction in its negotiating capacity and to a loss of ruins within the European People's Party, which would be valuable if they were exploited in favour of national interests. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, allow me to continue for another half minute. It is not possible to ignore this international reality, to lose the ground to defend the interests of our country and our people who, whether we like it or not, are within the walls of the UN, NATO, the European Union. What negotiating force would the Greek Foreign Minister or the Prime Minister have if he did not take advantage of the juncture of the candidacy of this country as a member of NATO and the European Union? And vice versa: would the representatives of Northern Macedonia make concessions and compromises if they were outside the framework of the UN and NATO? The pragmatic, multi-dimensional, active foreign policy, such as the one followed by the present government, is the only appropriate path. The false and pretextful, covert declaration of the far right over the historic borders, which reaches Serbia, represents a major risk, because these false, great ideas led to the Asia Minor Destroy and partition of Cyprus. The extremism of the extreme right, of course, cannot be accepted by the democratic arch. The real question is not whether we will oblige this country to be called 'non-Macedonia' or otherwise of our choice. The real dilemma is whether a situation will be formed around and within the country, which will make it an apple of Erido for many and various imperialisms and sub-imperialisms, outside NATO or within NATO, named after it, which will be related to the constitutional name prior to the revision of the Constitution. If this is done, with Greece virtually absent and not interfering, it will not stop the other long-term views and trends in our Balkan neighbourhood. We must close our differences in the Balkans and deal with the main threat to our sovereignty from the East. And, of course, I think we all wish the Prime Minister's efforts to create a better climate from the east too. The silky concepts that I can have all of our things are from the evil one. The hypocritical voices of counterpopulation that others say in public and others in the wells are dangerous. The patriotic conception requires that we be pragmatic. Our interests require that neighbouring northern Macedonia be close to us, rather than close to others, and, furthermore, stable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u36	Finish, Mr. Toska.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u37	I shall conclude, Madam President. For colleagues, regardless of party integrations and positions, I will say that the main criterion for voting on this protocol is to think about how we want the neighbouring country to be arranged within the world system, with realism and without abstractions and ideas. I therefore call on all colleagues to think realistically about the real risks of the country, the balance in the region, to accept this bill, which implements our national interests, which stabilises and upgrades our country's role in the wider region of the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean. I also speak with experience and offering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. Mr Kumucasakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, a historic cycle of eleven years has been closed for Greece today, starting with pride and ending with contributory action. It started in 2008, at the NATO Summit in Bucharest, when Costas Karamanlis and his government, when Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyannis and Minister of National Defence Vaggelis Meimarakis resisted until the end in diverse, persistent and strong pressures to consent to Macedonia's NATO membership, without a satisfactory solution for Greece. It was then that Greece succeeded with persistent and hard work to make the Greek position Atlantic, non-solution, non-invitation. Unfortunately this cycle of pride ends today with the final handover of the most powerful negotiating weapon, with which Greece could reach a good deal with Skopje. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are giving Greece's agreement to join Macedonia in the world's strongest political-military alliance against a lentil. You deposit the country's diplomatic weapons in exchange for a nationally detrimental and improper agreement. The agreement that the Greeks will never love will be accepted. The Embassy Agreement, which is already in force, has been ratified by a majority of members of the party groups, seconded by international parties, by a majority of monsters, by a majority of Frankenstein, created in an environment of political and institutional decline, in which you have led the political life of the country, a declining government. You have created a biotopes of decline in the country. You produce it and she feeds you. But this vicious circle of decline will soon be over, because that is what the Greek people want. We are here, ladies and gentlemen, we of the New Democracy, to vote against both the SYRIZA and the rest of the willing to vote in favour of the last, technical, typical step of a sincere commitment to the country, as provided for in Article 2 of the harmful Ambassadors' Agreement. What we are discussing today is simply the formal closure, is the monitoring of the harmful Prespecies Agreement, and that is why we will vote against it, because for us it is a matter of consistency and credibility. NATO membership is the first tangible and concrete positive result of this Skopje agreement. They rightly celebrated, after they ensured recognition by you of Macedonian identity and language, and now they also ensure NATO membership. The process of opening negotiations for the European Union follows, where, as Mr Mitsotakis said, we are not going to dismiss the right to exercise the veto, because it is a fundamental right of every Member State. So Skopje already enjoys the positive results of the Prespecies Agreement. And the big question is - and here you will be invited to respond constantly - what are the specific positive results for the Greeks, from the assembling of the Prespecies? This question must be answered, because today it is confirmed how far-reaching the Prespecies Agreement was, from the outset, the agreement that we voted against and you voted. See the image: celebrations in Skopje and Syriza, sorrow the Greeks. When one side rejoices and the other feels humiliated in an agreement, there is a big problem, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u40	VMRO?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u41	That is why the Embassy Agreement will be paved in historical time by the slightest legitimacy, since the vast majority of the Greeks are and will remain against it. However, agreements relating to identity issues and at the same time have no legalisation, do not solve problems. They cannot be proved viable in the course of time. Especially in the Balkans, the rotten agreements do not solve problems. They're throwing them under the rug for a while, but until they return these as nightmares. Instead of stability, such delegated identifiable agreements are instability. Now let's go to the next day. Madam President, I would ask SYRIZA's colleagues to listen to this lesson, it will be useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u42	Give us some attention now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u43	Please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u44	Now let's go to the next day. Here's what you've built. Your fundamental political argument in favour of the Prespecies Agreement was that this would stop Turkey's and Skopje's special privileged relations and Turkish penetration in Skopje would stop. Special and good relations between Athens and Skopje will be developed on the other side. I assume, therefore, that you are waiting for Macedonia's support for all the issues, that is, for decades, Turkey has been in violation of the treaties and international law against Greece in NATO. What will happen, ladies and gentlemen, when the question of the cancellation of a naval exercise is raised, because Turkey is going to have to deal with the compulsory demilitarisation of the Aegean islands? Which side will Skopje meet? With Greek reading, in accordance with international conditions or with Turkish? Or are they gonna do Pontius Pilate helping Turkey like that again? Have you ensured that? Have you ensured by giving language, name, with this Prespecies Agreement, a positive Skopje supportive position within NATO in favour of Greece? Did that bother you? One more thing. When the Skopje accession process started in NATO, you had a golden opportunity, a negotiating power, to demand solutions for Greece within the alliance for issues that have been pending for too long. Did you do it? Did you put it? Did you think of it or are you bound to this "yes" autopilot you have entered? Yeah, everything! Four years. All the time, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, everything! Were you thinking of negotiating, Mr. Katrugale, Mr. Tsipras, former Foreign and Defence Ministers? Oh, and by the way, many formerly gathered around this case. Former ministers, former leaders, former parties and soon former government!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u45	And you're old!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u46	It's the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u47	We, the fact that we have always been in favour of the Atlantic and Euro-Atlantic path of our neighbours, which we have always believed in the stabilising function of NATO and the European Union, which we have the know-how but also the legitimacy of always there, can disagree with our allies. We do not need to give credentials, because it is a genuine relationship tested over time. We can agree and disagree. You because you have the submissiveness and fanaticism of the neofotist, who even strives to hide his profaned past, only "yes" can you say. You don't have an equal relationship, you're new, so you're down with your head.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u48	And we're gonna be late for age, patience! Be patient!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u49	So that's what your past is trying to hide in the alliance. You can't do it no matter how much cynicism of the prefecture leads you to it. Your past is here. Today's cynicism cannot hide your past. So I read you how you started. Text of SYRIZA 2008. "The murderous machine called NATO." In 2013 you were calling for NATO to withdraw and prevent military cooperation with Israel. Think about what you said and what you did. That's not an ideological displacement, it's a gene mutation! In 2014, Mr. Dritsas: "Our strategic goal is to unlock the country from NATO and dismantle it." In 2015, the text of your foreign policy, which is also an ironic text of principle, listen to what it says: "NATO contributes to regional and international destabilisation". That's what your authorities said. Nice principles you have, enjoy them! Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u50	Do not cause, Mr Kumucako, the tension is not necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u51	With these principles you misled the Greek people. You've evolved into a political machine to produce lies and cynicism. Convert ‘yes’ to ‘no’. Your 'yes' to yours 'no'. That's who you are. We, unlike you, are consistent with what we believe and when we needed to support the Euro-Atlantic course of our neighbours. Many even helped them to be properly full members of NATO. We helped Albania, Bulgaria, Romania. This does not mean, however, that when we consider that there is a problem in national interests, we will say 'yes'. We have therefore put in place and we support prerequisites and prerequisites: a rule of law that works, respect for good neighbourly relations, not to interfere in the internal affairs of the States, all of this. But you, in the face of our own clean positions and comfort to say 'no' to our allies, go and negotiate with your head torn apart. New ones, new ones, give credentials every day. Ladies and gentlemen, late on 4 April 2008, when Greece imposed on the alliance its own position on the skeptic issue, I had a brief dialogue with Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis at the time. Everything went well, Mr President, it was a good day, I told him. At that time Karamanlis, with one of his well-known friendly moves, pushing the sternum of his chatter, said to me: "I will indeed be able to speak quietly with the ghosts of those who struggled for the case of Macedonia". That night Costas Karamanlis quietly had his conscience. And all of us, not only on the Greek expedition, but also on the whole of Greece, slept and we slept enthusiastically and proudly. Today, however, Greece feels humiliated, and that is why you are accountable. The heavy bill's coming. You will pay him all, wanting or not, because the Greek people will send him to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and three teachers attending the Esperano PAIL Corfu. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty-two students and students and a trainer from the 3rd Municipal Alimos. The House welcomes you. I will now give the floor to the spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, and then they will develop their demands for unconstitutionalism. Come on, Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, proposing on behalf of the Democratic Integration the vote against the Ambassadors' Agreement from this step-by-step points: "Skopje won the major, NATO membership and lost the lasson, a geographical definition in the name that will be eliminated in the course". This is the essence of our position which led to 'no' and, of course, refuses to ratify the NATO accession protocol as the first one made by the implementation of the agreement. That is why we are saying 'no' today. Ladies and gentlemen, for the countries of the North Balkans and Central Europe, those that belonged to the Soviet bloc, or were part of the area of unbundling, NATO membership as the result of liberalisation - with introductory or non-important inputs, as one uses it - after the fall of the Berlin Wall was the first and catalyst. The EEC - the EEC at the time - then - the European Union, etc. There was an urgent need for them to feel safe. How much more for the young democracy of Skopje in northern Macedonia, which historically takes its first steps as a self-determination state entity. The development of this primary need of our neighbours, especially after the change of leadership in the neighbouring country has had a critical condition, the resolution of the chronic problem between Greece and Skopje, so that they can join in terms of good neighbourliness, without transferring to the Atlantic Alliance. And the allied factor never hid his insistence on a solution now and pressed with all his powers for it. The conclusion of the agreement brought about by Alexis Tsipras and voted in favour of it by the Greek Parliament, today validates its first feat, when Zaev and the Skopje celebrate that they won the war, and henceforth they will also be called the "Macedonians" Voula and will speak Macedonian language and, in their own confession, they will be able to serve their alpha-government fantasies. Unfortunately, the unconditional delivery of the government to the pressures of the allied party, on the other hand of the Atlantic, marked a dangerous retreat from the national line. It is a defeat of the country, apart from the cultural, historical capital it lost, both in the field of international relations and international relations and its influence on them. It is truly worthy of wonder how the ruling party's position has changed in terms of NATO's usefulness. It is not a long time that left SYRIZA considered him an imperialist mechanism and Alexis Tsipras was calling for election in Thessaloniki for his abolition. And today, the same SYRIZA, who is taking himself for Macedonia's entry to NATO, celebrates it as a vindication of his politics and struggles. Are you struggling to abolish NATO through its enlargement? This is another original arrest of the 'first time left'. The truth is that we have been at the heart of an international context where there are new strategic arrangements in the region. Ukraine, the North Balkan, Turkey, the Middle East, the region south of the Caspian Sea constitute an arc that for America is the central area of its choices for the next few years. They've confessed that since the '90s. They wish to prevent Russia from returning, as they themselves say, to the forefront as superpower, making it a regional force, as well as other poles, China, India, etc. What would be a progressive position for NATO today? In the bipolar world of the two superpowers, to refer a little to the past, the simultaneous abolition of NATO and the Warsaw Pact was desirable. The initiatives on peace, nuclear decommissioning and the abolition of missile systems were in the world at the time. They then brought the existent Third World as a force of pressure and allowed countries such as Greece to pursue an active foreign policy in this direction. The six-year initiative, which was then swept away by the conservative forces of our country, today from the historic distance that separates us, is being seen as a crucial factor in our national strategy. It's good for us that many today remember Andreas, others to copy him, others to imitate him, others to insist on getting him shortened. Andreas is timely, returning and avenged. The transition to the world of a superpower with the simultaneous emergence of a multipolar system allows NATO to be gradually transformed from a defence cooperation mechanism of the North Atlantic Alliance to a global security organisation with a tendency to include as many countries as possible. I pray to say that he does not have that role today. Those who believe that today's unequal and unfair globalisation will swallow as a paper tower because of its contradictions are obviously not on the ground of reality. The more metaphysical the perception of abolishing NATO in visible historical time, the more necessary is the obligation of the progressive forces to impose this transformation, to cancel selective interventions, to resist bloody policies and to defend the right of the peoples. NATO's enlargement to countries such as Skopje is a positive contribution towards this transformation. It is a very difficult exercise - I admit - of foreign policy for countries like ours. We must make use of our accession to Europe and NATO as a factor of peace and cooperation in the region and negotiate in our alliances our role for the next few decades. This would, in my opinion, solve many of the economic problems facing the country today. Because another type of negotiation you do when you are dealing only with the narrow numbers, the narrow percentages of deficits and so on and another negotiation you do if you have provided geostrategic for your country a role in the area that is of greater importance, crucial importance for the broader correlation of forces and the geostrategic interests that are currently conflicting in this area. I think the image of our country is a little sad, in relation to this great reality and the great challenges we would have today. The point is, therefore, that the leadership of the place, as expressed today by the parties considered large and claiming to be in power, is less than the historical circumstances. The Prime Minister, unfortunately, is using national issues as a lever for internal political correlations. No one disagrees with the need for initiatives at a time when it could take advantage of the opportunities and challenges created in both geostrategic and economic fields. But Erdogan's journey to Athens and Alexis Tsipras in Turkey left us a bitter taste. In Athens Erdogan openly questioned the Treaty of Lausanne. In Ankara he raised in advance issues - the moment he was the Prime Minister on the plane - islands, mofts, EEZs etc. You will tell me: 'Would they not discuss with an open agenda when the aim is to deflegate tension, a legitimate and correct objective? Is it not right to contact and debate?' I don't deny it. However, I categorically deny our country's defensive attitude to the escalation of Ankara's expansionist plans, particularly when concessions it makes are limited to wishing and unequal exchanges, such as that of a political problem, such as the problem of mufts, and a purely symbolic, cultural and religious problem, such as the resumption of the Halki Theological School. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. The Prime Minister, unfortunately, likes to play on strategic issues - I would say - with ignorance of danger. For four years, the bilingualism of foreign policy, the coexistence of Kammenos - Kotzias with different options, the incomprehensible logic "we will first find money from Russia and China" or "we will deliver a base to the Americans" in the later period. He remained unaware of the intercategories that expose the country internationally. It preferred, instead of reaching agreement and taking advantage of national consensus, the unilateral exercise of the national strategy. These are dangerous paths to the road, to Hellenism and to Greece, ladies and gentlemen. At such times, the people understand the value, role and perspective of the party that can reunite Hellenism and show another, responsible and creative way for Greece and the Greeks, but above all to re-establish the wounded patriotic feeling of the people, which is an authentic expression of their conscience and is not related either to extreme nationalisms or to the logic of submissiveness. We who have the hand of a genuine patriotic movement are also obliged at this stage to fight for a genuinely integrated national strategy and win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. The demands for unconstitutionalism put forward by the Golden Dawn and the ANELs will be discussed here. Since the Golden Dawn, Mr Aivatidis and the Independent Greeks will speak. Mr. Aivatidis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u55	The Golden Dawn raises objections of constitutionality to the imported draft law. This objection is twofold: it is both substantial and typical. It is well known that the Constitution is the supreme law, and therefore international conventions should be compatible with it and in no way overhearing the requirements of the Constitution. The first component of the objection to constitutionality relates to essential articles of the Constitution, namely Articles 101 and 102 on the structure, organisation and administration of the State. It is known to everyone that there are three Greek regions which have a geographically complex name, namely Western Macedonia, Central Macedonia, Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. Clearly, therefore, joining NATO with this complex name geographically reverses the substance of the Constitution and should not, therefore, even be introduced for discussion. What is now the element of the formal unconstitutionality, namely the opposition to the formal issue, namely the production of the law? The Protocol of Accession, signed by the representative of the Greek Government, was awarded to an international organisation with responsibility for the Constitution. Therefore, this draft law should not be introduced and applied in the course of the course of Article 28(1). On the contrary, because this competence is conferred on the international organisation, NATO, we must demand - in addition - a three-fifths majority of the Members of Parliament, that is a hundred eighty Members of Parliament. We therefore believe that these two reasons, the first, which, I repeat, concerns the substance of the Constitution and the second type, namely the procedure for producing this law, should be examined seriously by Parliament, because it is also a historic meeting and everyone writes its history. I expect colleagues who will perhaps see this objection of constitutionality, to committed themselves to using arguments because if they do, as in the case of the Prespecies Agreement, to crown and applaud the SYRIZA warhead, the Neo Democratic Republic, or vice versa, it leads Parliament to a process which is perceived by the people and confirms the saying of our Chief, Nikolaos Michaliokos, that in the Greek Parliament there is the Golden Dawn and the party 'the parties', the falsification 'constitutional bow'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u56	Mrs. Collia, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of national sovereignty is a legal centre for assessing the relationship between international and domestic law. National sovereignty is also identified by case-law and by theorists in the sense of independence, so that state power is dominant when there are no restrictions outside, when freedom of decision and the exercise of state competences at international level. The concept of national sovereignty of a State, however, has serious limitations in two cases: When a state competence is assigned to the Constitution to an international organisation, a case dealt with in Article 28(2) of the Constitution, or when part of the national sovereignty is assigned to another State, a case governed by Article 28(3). However, the fact that international law allows for such restrictions first of all on national sovereignty does not mean that these restrictions can be made without preconditions, which the Constitution itself sets us. And such conditions are laid down in Article 28, and in particular in paragraph 3, which refers to ratification of an international treaty between states, but not within the framework of an international organisation such as NATO, and that is why there are two additional conditions: the principle of equality and the condition of reciprocity. The principle of equality has the meaning of sovereign equality and is identical to legal equality between States, while the condition of reciprocity refers to proportional treatment by the other party, a State. In other words, the principle of reciprocity in general is a more specific manifestation of the principle of sovereign equality, but also among states. These principles, which are overlap with Article 28(3), shall therefore apply to transnational contracts and in no case to contracts such as those under international organisations, where Article 28(2) applies. Such reference is made in paragraph 2 of Article 28, where ad hoc describes the current case of the ratification of the FYROM Admission Protocol to NATO, concerning the alleged promotion of cooperation with other States by means of a treaty recognition to international organisations such as NATO, which fall within the constitutional competence of the Greek state. I am therefore expressly referring to 28.2: 'In order to serve a great national interest and to promote cooperation with other states, they can be recognised by treaty or agreement to international bodies' powers provided for in the Constitution. A three-fifths majority of the total number of MPs is required to vote in favour of this Treaty or agreement." It is completely out of scope, on the other hand, Article 28(1). What competence of the Greek State is assigned and lost by the ratification of this admission protocol to FYROM NATO? In Articles 4(6), 22(4) and 68(2), and in Article 1(2) and (3) of the Constitution, the inalienable obligation, rights of the Greek state for the defence and protection of the Greek territory, is described in a clear and indirect way as one of the main means of safeguarding Greek sovereignty. Greece has therefore acceded to the North Atlantic military treaty of NATO for geopolitical reasons and also for reasons of strengthening its deterrent force towards third countries, as the preamble to the NATO Statute clearly declares the collective defence of peace and security in the territories of the member states of the organisation through the collective defence of security and security. Member States that have the right to collective defence against third countries and other States called third countries, according to what I have read before, may take collective defence action against third countries in order to defend their territory and national sovereignty on the basis of Article 5 of the Statute. The parties to Article 5, Madam President, agree that an armed attack on one or more of them in Europe or North America, is considered an attack on all. Each of them in order to exercise the right of the individual or of collective defence recognised by Article 51 of the United Nations Charter will assist the Contracting Party or Parties that so attack, taking individually and in consultation with other Parties such measures as it deems necessary, including the use of an armed force, to restore and maintain the security of the region of Europe or the North Atlantic. So, Madam President, by closing down with what I mentioned earlier, if the Greek Parliament today ratifys the FYROM Admission Protocol to NATO, the first and most obvious result will be the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia stopping being a third member. This will remove Greece's ability to apply in the future and under threat conditions from the neighbouring state of FYROM with a history of existential hindrance of supposedly Macedonian minority in our country and many others, which we have unfortunately seen from the past, but also after the vote of the Prespecies Agreement. So we will not be able to have protection of collective defence on the basis of Article 5 of the Statute. In this sense, Greece's ability and obligation to defend its territory through the request for collective defence, which is part of the general obligation to defend Articles 4, 22 and 68 of the Constitution, is limited with regard to FYROM and is transferred to NATO only after FYROM's expulsion in the future to recover the right to collective defence against the neighbouring state. For these reasons, Madam President, the Independent Greeks believe that the Greek Parliament and the Greek Government are obliged - and this is what they are asking - to apply Article 28(2), paragraph 28, which requires a two-fifths majority of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u58	The rival from SYRIZA Mr. Kontonis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u59	Madam President, I will not need five minutes. First of all, I would like to say that it is one of the rare cases where a party's objection of unconstitutionality and legal claims are in absolute contradiction with its ideology. What we heard from Golden Dawn is both for garbage and therefore we are not going to answer it. The second thing I would like to say is that with regard to the objection of unconstitutionalism of the Greek Party, I would like to stress that, if it had any point in discussing Article 28(1) or (2), and what is being implemented, this debate is, I think, exhausted in the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement, because at least in theory Article 28(2) is applied, despite the fact that there has been no delegation of powers in this Treaty, much more power. However, one might argue that, as Article 28(2) states, we have an international treaty which may contain such a treaty. I repeat that the Embassy Agreement had no such parameter, namely the assignment of powers or powers. Today that we have the ratification of the Protocol of Incoming Northern Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, NATO, there is no power given by Greece. If there is one, it is from the state, which seeks membership of an international organisation, and, of course, this request - and it is obvious - is the assignment of some responsibilities. As far as our country was concerned, it was assigned when Greece joined NATO and when it was re-entered in 1980. Therefore, this protocol does not contain any delegation of power, and that is why we ask the Greek Parliament to reject this objection of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. Does a parliamentary representative want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u61	I, Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u62	I too, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u63	In turn. Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Madam President. There has been a debate on this for a few minutes and on the Standing Committee on Foreign and Defence. I heard the President of the Independent Greeks there, but also in a private conversation, that there is one particular thing about FYROM, because it is a neighbouring state and a past about Turkey in the 1970s. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because we in the committee supported as a Democratic Incorporation - and we repeat this - that in all the ratification of protocols of accession in previous years we have followed the rule of Article 28(1) of the Constitution, namely the requirement of a majority of the present. We did this with Croatia, we did it with Albania, Bulgaria and Romania. Recently with Montenegro. So there would be no reason to change the rule now and go to paragraph 2 of Article 28, which requires the delegation of powers that the Constitution provides for us in international organisations, or to paragraph 3, which provides for restrictions on national sovereignty. However, I had told the Minister, Mr Katrugalo, to look into the archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs if anything else had happened in the 1970s after the fall of the dictatorship in relation to Turkey. I, Mr. Catrugale, didn't find anything. I didn't find anything at all. It is therefore a conclusion, one conclusion, that we must follow today, in the vote, the rule of Article 28(1) of the Constitution and the majority rule of the present. We have been dealing with these days, these weeks, an orchestra of arguments, we who are opposed to the Ambassadors' agreement on supposed constitutional instruments that existed before us, and we have not followed them. One of these was because we did not vote for a referendum, forgetting that the Constitution provides for two fifths to propose a hundred eighty to speak in favour of a referendum. Others said of resignation, which we did not exercise, because if we exercise it, the situation could change. But if we did, we would just increase the majority of SYRIZA by adding some Members. It has been heard - and what has not been heard - that the President of the Republic resigns, he says, in order to stop this process, as if Mr Voutsis who would have taken up as the provisional President would have another view. A number of monsters have been heard, and all of this must be sidelined and we must address matters at political level and not at legal level, Madam President, because the legal level is clear. I would like to say to Mrs Kollia that a possibility that her party had no need for legal constitutional arguments, but politically to stop this process, was the June vote on the motion of censure. And it is not true, Madam President, - and I am closing it with this - that the figures have not come out because, from what I have been informed by the Communist Party of Greece, it is not immoral to say that it is voting against any motion of censure. He judges it every time in particular. So if the numbers were open, then your vote in favour would have stopped this process. It didn't happen. Therefore, the Prespecies Agreement was ratified by the Greek Parliament and the procedures for the Greek Republic were followed. Today we have the accession protocol. I think, Madam President, that dialogue is political and is not legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u66	I am not going to deal with the first proposal. Now a party that supports the junta, which has destroyed the urban constitution, to ask for constitutional issues, is not worth any answer. I'll talk in general. These proposals from both the ANEL party and those from time to time are pretexts for granting national sovereignty, etc. Question: When the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the Minister of National Defence gave the basis for drones in the center of Greece to the Americans with the consequences that military, but also the simple world, understand - control, that is, all Greece to the bottom, all the Mediterranean with the slightest detail - when he gave this basis, asked anyone? Did the government come to the House, even inform and have a debate? Oh, no. The Stefan? Same. For Alexandroupolis, to be converted, as Mr Piat says, the 'instronger' of the current government, into NATO's giant helicopter base in the South-East Mediterranean, asked anyone? No, he didn't ask anyone. And I imagine that no one is naive to believe that they will protect the country's national independence and sovereign rights. We therefore regard them as a pretext. What do we say as a Communist Party of Greece? We now have the Constitutional Review. The only party proposing the abolition of Article 28, which puts international conventions above national law and grants more - they are all well-known - is the JRC. We say that it will be abolished so that the country will be independent and will not be granted sovereign rights. Now nobody's gonna say, internationally...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Paphie...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u68	You'll hear it if there is. Don't rush! Will anyone say "you're not going to make international contracts?". Of course you will. They'll have the power of formal law. And because they say that there is no such system as the chemical and sterilization bombs that write your trolls about the Spaniard, Switzerland has such a system and has it guaranteed in its Constitution and is not a socialist country. It shows that it is truly, regardless of anything else, a country independent of them. So here's Rhodes, here's the decision! Anyone who therefore disagrees with the granting of sovereign rights to support the proposal for a change and repealing Article 28.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u69	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u70	Mrs. Collia, I'm not allowed to give the floor. If it's something that's so important, I'll make a derogation for a minute. What do you mean? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u71	We went to June again. I don't think it's personal, it's political. However, because Mr Loverdos was put back to the Independent Greeks the burden of voting for this agreement has become ridiculous - and I must not call it ridiculous, because it is not right for the expression in Parliament - but you will allow me to say that no party, no movement, no parliamentary group to wait on the other hand what will be voted on to vote on it as well. We had our opinion. We continue to have our opinion. It was, and it's our red line. And what has to do with the New Democracy - and, of course, PASOK - which, in previous years, handled these issues, the New Democracy could also, in the past time and even today, propose with us the objection of unconstitutionalism, to call for and make our battle here and ask again to make a motion of censure to the government, something that has not done so. So all this is pretexts in sin, trying all this Parliament - at least most of the parties and groups - to put the burden on the Independent Greeks once again. We only accept the red lines we have, for which we will be consistent by the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Minister doesn't want the floor. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u73	Madam President, you have forgotten us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u74	I asked before who wants to talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u75	I had lifted my hand, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u76	I didn't see you, I'm sorry. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u77	Madam President, as regards the first objection to the Golden Dawn, what I always say and what the Parliamentary spokesperson of the JRC has said is no more placement. As far as the second of the Independent Greeks is concerned, first of all, as was rightly said, the Independent Greeks had the opportunity to stop this story by voting on the motion of censure. They avoided it. And they are now trying in various ways to return to the central debate on this issue. All I deserve - I think - to comment here is the reasoning of Article 5 of the NATO Treaty on collective protection, which appears. In other words, it appears in the proposal - and even in writing - by a party whose Chief of Defence has been Minister for a long time, ladies and gentlemen, that, by ratifying this protocol, Greece will lose the opportunity to invoke Article 5 of the collective protection against Skopje, if necessary. And the translation is that Greece to deal with Skopje probably needs NATO's help. And this comes from a party whose chief was Minister of National Defence of this country for four years. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of unconstitutionalism has been completed. Since both proposals, irrespective of their nature, seek to apply Article 28(2), and this procedure applies to Article 28(1), a joint vote will be taken. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, please rise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u79	Madam President, we are abstaining.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u80	Okay. The JRC has retired. The others are present. Apparently, the fewer were raised. It is clear that the required number of Members from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House did not arise. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Panagiotaros. Mrs. Panayotus, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u81	Madam President, just a minute to evacuate the Chamber from the dissidents with our presence. Please, comrades, leave a little faster to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u82	Go ahead, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u83	Before I begin, I would like to say to Mr Kontonis that for garbage it is your lack of ideological consequence, comrades. Now go practice for NATO's afforestations and it's all right! As for this bill, what all of us, friends and enemies of constitutional and anti-constitutional, as you say, arc - of course, now who is the constitutional and who is the anti-constitutional is another debate - is that you have sold out one and only Macedonia which is Greek, firstly, for the geopolitical wishes of the United States of America, which unfortunately are at odds - should rather be at odds with our geopolitical desires and, secondly, for the satisfaction of your ideological complexes, comrades - what you had in 1946-1949, you are now trying to do with various legislations to satisfy your ideological ancestors - and thirdly, for the solutions of the donor of many of you George Soros and anyone who wants to make 'they'. And all this without getting anything - everyone's most tragic - not you, but Ellas and I mean it. For many of you have received much. As much as you are trying to convince us that this agreement - treason against the overwhelming majority of the Greek people - this abortion of the Prespecies benefited Greece, benefited our Macedonia, they are all looking for where, but nobody finds it. Even the SYRIZA rapporteur - reading literally, did not lift his eyes from the bottom - could not even smack a single argument. Really, what happened geopolitically? Did we win or lose all of this? What do we gain and what do we lose from Macedonia's accession to NATO? What about the perverting of our neighbors? Nothing at all! They spit on you in the face, and you think he's singing. Truly, what did we get, what did we gain, what did we benefit from the plentiful Greek minority living in Skopje? Until first, your Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, spoke with detestable words and with refusal the existence of hundreds of thousands of Greeks who live there and accept it and the Skopje themselves accept it. Really, what have we gained in matters of everyday life, in matters of commerce, the commercial world, the business world? Is the whole of Northern Greece boiling over the trademarks, with names? Nothing at all. In fact, as we are discussing the second act of this drama today, what do we gain from the entry of Skopje to NATO? Are we closing some loose ends, some problems? On the status of the nineteen Aegean islands, which NATO sees as demilitarized and does not include in any design of the island? Did you ask for our agenda to pass on this matter? No, of course not. Have you done anything about Greece's refusal to'search and rescue', to research and rescue, which Turkey has been using for years? Did you turn that off? Oh, no. Instead, you know what happens once Skopje becomes also a regular NATO member? We will have another country that will refuse research and rescue and, when the issue comes to a vote, clearly Skopje, since they are connected from the beginning of their existence in the tank of Turkey, they will vote in favour of Turkish interests. Did you do anything to dozens of other smaller individual issues concerning conflicts between Greece and Turkey within or outside NATO? Nothing at all. Turkey has taken everything from this particular agreement, Skopje has taken everything, all enemies of Greece have taken everything and Greece cannot tell you exactly what it has taken, because we will have a matter and a penalty. You didn't get anything, you gave everything. You've opened the Cape on all the issues. And, comrades, your self-determination is not over. You're laughing at everything. From the Nicaraguan collectives, from the "People of the Peoples, Americans!", from your barracks anti-imperialist slogans, from the many solos that you have melted to the US Embassy, from your election earlier announcements, from what he said and even now your programme - you have not changed it - about the catastrophic consequences of NATO's enlargement and, more generally, NATO's existence, you went right to the opposite bank, to the rampages on the abnormal mountains - your own words are those - of the killers of the American and NATO peoples. You came from the marches to the American Embassy to go to the tea party of the American Ambassador within his house and take very nice pictures. Of course the absurd and oxymomile is that the next day you go back to march, you hug, you wear your red scarves there to show that you remain socialists, communists, Marxists, and then you vote for what NATO wants. We testify for the Practicals so that there are pictures of comrade Paulis, who are in the collectives of Nicaragua with the kalashnikovs and keep the plantations the bad Codras - that's what he said - and again we present for the Minutes a very nice picture of the tea party in the home of the American Ambassador - I don't know if it's for the 4th of July or for another day - with Mr. Nikos Papapas and various other comrades. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned photographs in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Comrades, argue today - one or two speakers will have - in favour of NATO and now leave them for anti-imperialism and all of this. As for you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, clearly say what your national position was, because you started evil to say things by their name. You've accepted the composite name. Are you in favour or against the composite name by geographical or other designation for Skopje? Is the word "Macedonia" in the name of the neighbouring state? Yes or no? Not to mention all the rest and the background of the last few days. While before the debate on the agreement - within many introductorys - of the Prespecies you had lifted the bar of resistance very high, suddenly 'takes the engines' and it all went nice and nice without anyone protesting! As for Mr. Kammenos, the President of the Independent Greeks who spoke yesterday in committee, talking to us about the descendants of the cometads and those who fought with the cometads against the Greeks, to see the p-books of each Greek army, and if he wants to go back and see who our fathers and grandparents and grandparents and grandparents of others fought with. You had the opportunity, gentlemen of the Independent Greeks, to become heroes in the summer, to drop this government, on the basis of your'red lines', as you call them. Of course, your lines have been transformed into some other red things, but that's another job anyway. For a few months more power, gentlemen of the government of more than a hundred and forty-five, three Members playing ballots in two parties, playing government and opposition - we are talking about the unbelievable things - you have sold everything out, and it seems that you are about to sell out even more, because it is quite simply the Civic Opposition that has been ordered to wait 'cause its turn will come and there is no reason to move the strings an hour before. You put Hellenism in huge catastrophic adventures. The game - to speak and twenty seconds in general - is chic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, you will also give me the two minutes. Thank you. We see that the leadership of this country at all levels is caught by advertising. The journalists and those who, while in the Annan Plan, were all in favour of the plan, now because they saw the universal reaction of the Greek people, have taken a neutral attitude, a firm attitude. In conclusion, we will once again repeat the fixed position of the Golden Dawn, us of the bad, the fascists or as you say to us: Macedonia is a Greek one. No compromise on our Macedonia, and if God ever vindicates us - and never say 'never', gentlemen of the government, co-government and Civilian Repression - if we ever come to things, we will throw this treacherous agreement at whatever cost to us and our country, as long as everyone's dignity is up there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u84	Mr Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece now has the floor for ten minutes. I would like to inform the House, because I see a massive withdrawal, that you must in any case be present around 19: 00, when the roll-call vote will take place in accordance with Rule 72(1)(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The roll-call vote was requested by the President of Parliament. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u85	We told the committee yesterday that the accession protocol of Northern Macedonia to NATO is no longer a formal and procedural one. It is the essence of the Prespecies Agreement, it is the reason that led to the Prespecies Agreement, and it is also the reason for the haste of the debate and ratification of the Accession Protocol, both in Greece and in other countries, and it is the proof that the main objective of this agreement was precisely to integrate the neighbouring country into NATO and the European Union, to move Euro-Atlantic integration into the Western Balkans, to strengthen NATO's presence and to weaken the influence of other powerful states, such as Russia, and so on. As the State Department's report on Greece says, "Greece contributes to weakening the malignant influence of Russia and China", while the US's influence is a benign influence! That's what you're doing today. And it is not just today because there is the view that some of SYRIZA say that, at any rate, if it is to solve a bilateral issue, what to do with NATO. Two years ago you also supported Montenegro's NATO membership with which Greece did not have bilateral disputes. So strengthening, strengthening NATO is now your strategic choice and you have also taken the role of signifier in promoting US planning. And developments don't end here. There are open fronts. There will be chain reactions. There are huge competitions in the Balkans and in the wider region for market shares, raw materials, energy transport roads and competitions which have also taken the character of a more open military provision of war preparations and scenarios for generalised conflicts. Suffice to see the military exercises NATO is doing with the participation of the Greek Armed Forces. Suffice it to see NATO's preparedness plan, that is to say, within thirty days there must be thirty battleships, thirty heavy or middle-armed battalion and thirty-mile airlocks. It is also sufficient to see the recent withdrawal of the United States of America from the agreement with Russia on nuclear weapons by means of a range of 30 years, because the agreement was signed with the Soviet Union as it was known. So, then, we say again that whoever is very naive or whoever is consciously does not see where the whole thing is going. We, as the JRC, will insist on highlighting in every way the powers that we have this very dangerous for the peoples in the Balkans and the wider region, as well as the role of poster and messenger of NATO and the Americans that the SYRIZA government has undertaken, a government that accepted and supported all NATO's decisions - up to the first nuclear blow - which participated and participated with the Greek Armed Forces in military exercises and other missions outside the borders, which keeps the military expenditure on NATO to the level of 4 billion euros, which has been increased and extended for days in the US bases in Souda, Alexandroupolis, Larissa, etc. Indeed, because you have taken such a role, that is why the government takes the credit of the United States Government at every opportunity that Greek-American relations are going through their best phase in the month of honey. The accident, of course, for you is that a world, particularly a left-wing world - really progressive and not these remnants of old social democracies that you are collecting and baptizing them progressively - such a world that has historical memory, is aware of your role. To answer this world, what do you say? You say what the government said yesterday to the committee by the mouth of Mr Katrugalos, who, in our opinion, was a monument of political silence. The government said the Left in the past criticised NATO. Be careful, even the notebook of words has its meaning. He said he was criticizing. The Left, the folk movement, did not criticise NATO. They fought NATO with all their powers and had bleeded in this fight. Also, the government yesterday said that the Left criticised the Cold War. After 1991, the people's movement fell under the flag of the fight against NATO, when NATO was dismantled even further, because it was also missing the adversarial awe that the Soviet Union and the socialist camp, Iraq, Yugoslavia, Libya, Syria and so on.Huh? That is why we say that what the government says is poison, especially for the new generations, because apart from being completely unscrupulous, it also cultivates the view that it is now 'finded', outdated, to fight against these imperialist agencies. After you had projected the slogan - parody, this slogan - cartoon for the dissolution of NATO - in other words, self-destruct, because it can only be done when every people choose the way to release from these wolves - you are leaving it today too. It's logical and next. You're involved in criminal policy. You are supporting criminal policy in the name of the national interest, what New Democracy and PASOK have said in the past few years for national interests, for the risk of isolation, for the non-one-on-one-on-one path, for realism. All of what the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have said when we criticised their pro-Natural policy, all of this is repeated until today by the SYRIZA government. It seems clear here and what are the real dividing lines between the political forces, that is, what you and everyone else mean when you talk about 'national interest' and what we mean about 'national interest'. You, as a national interest, mean the geostrategic upgrading of the country, that is to say the upgrading of parts of the country's capital that want a share of the plumbing carried out at the expense of the peoples of the region by energy and other types of partnerships. This is the contents of the slogan you have slanted "Greece - leading power in the Balkans". We, on the contrary, say that the exchanges of this policy do not concern the national people's interests, because in a society divided by ranks there is no single national interest - we are looking at the national interest of the people - nor, of course, does this policy protect the country's sovereign rights. The very opposite, Greece is transforming into an advanced US and NATO penitentiary and entering the centre of steep competition in the region. The Embassy Agreement was a link in your overall policy. In fact, the most dangerous of all is that you are showing this agreement and as a 'bouzula', as a guide, for the settlement of other disputes that exist, such as the Cyprus issue, which the Prime Minister said at his meeting with President Anastasiades some time ago, when it is known that these Organizations - the USA, NATO, the European Union - have been responsible for the Turkish invasion and occupation for forty-five years. It is known that the issues that the Turkish ruling class opens have the tolerance - if not the support - of those forces that every time for the 'grey zones', for the islands, etc., are holding a Pontius Pilate stop. It is also known that a series of plans for the annexation of Kosovo, the plans for "Great Albania" and it goes on to say, have the support of all these forces. So these forces, NATO, the United States, the European Union, the people's murderers, the arsonists of the Balkans, no matter how much you want to wash them out, cannot guarantee peace and stability in the region. At the moment we are talking, these forces are opening up another front in Venezuela this time, with the well-known pretexts we have heard of democracy, human rights, a humanitarian crisis, which led to other interventions in Syria, Libya, Iraq and so on. The pretexts then collapsed, and what has proved to be that these interventions have caused even greater problems, hundreds of victims, the division of states, the waves of refugees, which we have been experiencing in recent years and in our country. Regardless of what everyone thinks, what opinion we have on governance in Venezuela is that only her people are responsible, who is responsible, who is responsible, to choose which president, which government, which system will have, rather than every international policeman, every international pimp who is leading for coups and threatens with open military interventions. In this regard, as in many others, hypocrisy, the bilingualism of the SYRIZA Government, once again, appeared. After a statement by the SYRIZA Secretary, where there was no reference to the United States of America, then the statements by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs came to support the early involvement of the European Union in the interior of Venezuela through the international Contact Group, where countries such as Spain that have recognised Guido as a transitional President of Venezuela were involved. And yesterday we had the solemn statement in Mr Katrugalos' committee that the Greek Government has co-formulated the European Union's resolution, which was ultimately not accepted because of the veto of Italy. In other words, you have configured the European Union's position on raw interference within Venezuela's interiors, when more than half of the countries have recognized Guido as a transitional President of Venezuela and adopt the main demand for the opposition to hold presidential elections. Indeed, because you often say 'who Europe we want', you ask the question 'You want the Europe of the Spanish Sanchez, Costa, Tsipras or Orban and Lepense', and so the Sanchez Europe, Costa, and various other liberal, neoliberal social democrats is the Europe which has tried to support the coup of the United States of America and to support Guido as a transitional President of Venezuela.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Gioka, will you please finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u87	I'm done with this. We will repeat what we have said in the debate on the Prespecies Agreement, that the stake for the people is to hamper the plans of the United States, NATO, the European Union, not to imprison other peoples in these bonds of the murderous organisations, to release the corroborations that are deliberately and consciously still, to address the nationalism of each side, which is being used for border changes, bloodshed and to pass its logic divides and reigns, that is, what all of you are serving and the New Democracy and the KINAL and the other parties. We're on the other side. We are with the right and the right of every people, the people, with their friendship, solidarity and shared struggle, to fight against these plans, to free themselves from these imperialist mechanisms and to become the rulers of developments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u88	All right, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u89	You sit down and fight each other about who he is, more pro-natal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two teachers - their 11th General School of Patras. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u91	Tolerance, Madam President - and I thank you - if I need more than ten minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my position, taking on account of the objection of non-constitutionalism made by our parliamentary representative, Mrs Kollias, not so much because the House rejected it, leaving another blockade of a constitutional field to go away, in order to facilitate the vote today on the accession of Skopje to NATO, as I was impressed by the position of the PASOK Parliamentary Representative - KINAL, if you wish - Mr Loverdou, who referred to the fault that we had, when we voted against the New Democracy's motion of censure last June. He specified that the JRC's position was a position that was shaped by our own political attitude. The strange and amazing thing about me was that the KKE did not react to this position of KINAAL made by his representative, Mr. Loverdus. It has been tacitly accepted, since the JRC did not react, that our intention, which was implemented, to vote against the New Democracy's motion for distrust, caused the JRC to adopt a position, as if it had not been established. He waited for us in the JRC to form a position, which was seen on that day, a departure position, so the beans could not come out of one hundred and fifty votes in order to pass the proposal of distrust from the New Democracy. [[Laughers in the Chamber from the KKE Wing]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I am very surprised that you have not reacted and, in any case, I ask you to say, instead of smiling, that our attitude has shaped your position, that day? Say it, because so far I have collected, if anything, the impression, if not the established belief, that you have your own positions, which are not affected by the positions of the other parties. If I'm wrong, say it. Colleagues, two weeks ago, on 25 January 2019, because we, taking this position, believed that we had to take it - let me return immediately before entering the point - did not want to support a proposal of distrust of the New Democracy, because we did not want to pass on the message that the New Democracy gave us a mandate and that mandated Nightmare and commissioned "Nightmare" of her and its Chief, we were supporting, voting in favour of that day, that night, that proposal. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that a second reason why we could not prevent signing and 'ink', as many people say, twisting the truth, abused reality and passing wrong impressions on to the Greek people, we could not prevent the next day - exactly the next day - the then Minister of Foreign Affairs from going to the press and signing. But you did stick to the signing point of a draft agreement which, at the time, the Council of State decided on by decision, that no legal effects and no legal consequences could be achieved, which the Secretary-General, Stoltberg, confirmed. But what you do not have the courage to say PASOK and New Democracy is that the architects who designed the complex name "Macedonia" are you. You don't have the courage to say it. You do not have the courage to say that your architecture, your design, was the basis on which SYRIZA was based to negotiate the term "Macedonia" with Skopje. It does not have the courage to say that these were the architects who created the provisional name FYROM, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, which certainly contains the term "Macedonia", accepting that the term "Macedonia" has been included in this complex name. You don't have the courage to say it. In the millions of people who protested with the rallys and who were supposed to be anyone who stood up to you, you never had the courage to tell them and ask for an apology that the term "Macedonia", which the Greek people did not even want to be in the composition of the name, was the term that you have imposed with the past years on the policies that you have implemented in this national major theme. Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago, on 25 January 2019, the Prespecies Agreement passed through the Greek Parliament and became the law of the Greek state, and therefore we arrived in the process that is unfolding today, at a time when I believe that the historians of the future will capture the most black colors. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you have not reached a good agreement. You made a quick deal, alone and in hiding. But remember always the aristotle "heterogeneousity of purposes". Starting does not always prejudge the result, and we will fight with nails and teeth along with the citizens, to reverse what you are presenting to us as a result, this act of political and national crime that has caused and national humiliation. The political atrocity that you have implemented against us to know that it will not remain unanswered. Your political inconsistency specified our departure revealing the size of your political amoralism. But we won't remain silent. Don't hope for that. And we will not be silent because the facts themselves deserve us. Already the neighbouring country's attitude confirms our opposition to your actions. The provocativeness of the neighbours continues and even continues from the day of the vote in favour of the Prespecies Agreement, a vote in favour made by a heirly and polite parliamentary majority, which you claim has legalised the government's policy. Our neighbours continue to call themselves and define themselves in exactly the same way, as they did before the Prespecies Agreement was adopted. You are emptyed daily and unequivocally, having fruited your consent with which you committed the will of the Greek people, without even having been asked by the people themselves. They have not been declaring their prolongative and anaphylactic eyelids. On the contrary, they continue and maintain the same rhetoric both within and outside the borders. And worse, they have received the legitimacy of doing so, as in the eyes of the international community they now have every reason to claim that they received the consent of the Greek state. That is why we are in this Chamber today, because you have carried out your mission, and you have considered that you will be doing so without difficulty, which you seem to believe, even if this is dangerous to you and to the country. You know, if there's anything we should all be afraid of in our lives, it's his unforeseen reaction given. The actions and actions of all the members of the government testify to us. Wrong. Because from the outset we had clearly specified our common walks and they were no more than an attempt to get the country out of the memoranda, to return to normality, as well as to fight corruption. However, the clearer our approaches were as clear as our divergences, ideologically fundamental, differences in national, religious and social issues. We defended them with vigour and readiness. That's why the reaction to our deception will be beyond the expected one. On the days when national moderation was evolving, I was outside Greece and, unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to place myself. But I have had the opportunity to hear what has been said, to monitor hypocrisy, misinformation, mudology, but above all the cynicism of power, ethnic sacrifice on its altar. If what we are experiencing wasn't so tragic, they could be investigated in the field of Psychiatry. Why can one be reasonable and expose a bunch of absurd arguments like what we have heard to convince him of unheard? Gentlemen of the government, your sirens of authority have caused partial deafness and you only hear what comes from your narrow election audience and from a symposium of volunteers attached. You're deaf to 90% of the country's citizens. Ignore their "l want". But between 'I want' ours and 'can' yours is 'fear'. But what are you afraid of? Are you afraid to deny the outside orders? Are you afraid to propose the interests of the country against others? Are you afraid of going to elections and not fearing the anger of the people? God, well, aren't you afraid of her, but neither of the people? How easily do you assign roots, history, language? Don't you wonder why you're not convinced of your arguments? Because they're unbelievable, bare, enclosed with a cloak of ethel. Sometimes you give the impression that you live in a parallel universe, in a virtual reality. I cannot interpret otherwise a statement by your top government minister that if there were a referendum on the Prespes, you would earn it. Here two things may happen: Either you have lost your perceptive ability or you are mocking us on the occasion of knowledge. And since all but naive of you, I find, in the second version, that you are mocking us all reluctantly. For all these reasons, therefore, we Independent Greeks will continue to fight and will not remain silent. Because there is still room for manoeuvre despite the concessions you have signed. Because one must finally make it clear that this attitude of the neighbours will not be tolerated from now on. We remain consistent in our disagreement with the granting of the name of Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Katsiki, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u93	I shall conclude, Madam President. In a minute, I'm done. It is our position of founding proclamation. It is a stable and unnegotiable position. And so from the moment we disagreed and voted against the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement, we disagree and vote against the current draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concerning the accession of Macedonia to NATO under this name, which we, in convergence and sympathy with the majority of the Greek people, never approved to be granted, and we remain unreserved in this position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u94	I will now give the floor for a minute to the Minister to submit a document and, in the meantime, Mr Saridis, come to Stepma. Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u95	Madam President, I was asked by Mr Loverdes to present a document. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It concerns the communication of our Ambassador to NATO on the launch of the relevant process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u96	Come on, Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my introduction with an observation on how we speak and understand as Greeks, that is the way we use the Greek language. I am sure you will have noticed, that every time we talk about our allies, every time we talk about our partners, we change the tone of our voice. We're changing the time. For some reason, when we talk about 'friend' and 'allied' Turkey, or when we talk about our partners in Europe, we pronounce the syllables more slowly as if we wanted to hide something between them, as if we were closing our eye on our interlocutor that we were saying another thing. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] This 'other' we mean 'Greek people', of course, has nothing to do with the 'other' of our policies. With what the Greeks choose to hide between their word syllables they intend to counsel, warn, not cheat. Today, then, Greece has another friend, another ally, another partner. Today, with our signature for the second time, we accept that it is right to identify ourselves by some who are not Greek in a Greek word. Today we are reaching the end of a course, a series of choices, decisions and events in which the Greek people have never been asked. The unanswered questions on the lips of all these people will remain unanswered, not because the Greeks did not try to get answers themselves, not because they did not ask the Greeks to learn, but because the political system of the country proved to be reluctant and incapable of answering them. How did we get here? Did the scout open it on our own? Did we give the name because it was decided by a Greek or because we were forced by strangers? Finally, why would these Skopje insist on self-determination by a Greek word, while they are not Greek? Has the historical truth really compromised or compromised by Skopje's nationalistics? Did Macedonia have to save it from Skopje's schoolbooks? Would we lose Alexander the Great if the Skopje continued to make wooden statues? Was there ever a chance that Aristotle's story would forget, because they decided that the various institutions that gave money to anyone who Skopje declared directly a descendant of the ancient Macedonians? Ladies and gentlemen, you who are going to vote today on Macedonia's accession to NATO, you who signed all Greeks legally under the Lake Agreement, and you have said that you have saved the historical truth, are wrong. And the mistake goes on today. Historical truth has never been compromised. The real dangers to historical truth have told us many years ago, first Thucydides. And that's why everyone accepts him worldwide as a father of history science. The only dangers for historical truth stem from subjectivity and the lack of knowledge and professionalism of what records it. There is nothing else to be said about historical truth. So do not send the message to our young people that history is at the mercy of nationalists. He tried, too, to steal from ancient Greek history, from ancient Greek culture. And words grabbed and symbols grabbed and ideas grabbed. Did our historical truth risk then? Or did he jeopardize the Turkish rule? Why didn't we be lost as a nation in four hundred years of slavery? How can we not get lost in the years of Turkish rule and fear that we will be lost, because at this particular time in our own tens of countries have made unspeakable decisions? How have the Turks so far failed, despite the changes in names, despite their terrible architectural interventions, despite the changes in use, to hide the Greekity of their territories? There's no Greekism hiding. Marbles don't work. The ideas don't die. Historical truth has never been compromised. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you, who will vote today and present as your argument that you are allegedly helping to stabilise the region. I disagree with you. I will agree with you that what you have been saying all the time, in fact, believes: that your patriotism, in other words, leads you to this conclusion. As I will not dispute that you are consistent in your views, as I will not, therefore, question your patriotism, so you should understand that I am simply disagreeing with you. I think you're wrong, because by 25 January the only one who could call the name "Macedonia" to change the Balkan border was us. We, the Greeks. Just us. This, however, ensured peace, that we, the Greeks, were the only ones who could have a serious claim on the territory of the Balkans. But at the same time, we were the only ones who had, and we have, absolutely no desire - and that is known to everyone, friends and enemies - that we never wanted to get anything from anyone. Because, therefore, we are the only ones who, apart from being capable of military power, could find other easy runs and raids, invoking our long history, which is why he did not dare and no one could speak of border changes, except our "friends" and our "partners" Turks. But after the concession of the word "Macedonia", after the renunciation of the word "Macedonia", this word is now in the mercy and in the hands of anyone who decides to do anything in the name of Macedonia, in the name of the Macedonian nation, in the name of the infamous Macedonians. Ladies and gentlemen, in conjunction with what is happening in Serbia, Kosovo, Albania, Tetovo, Bosnia, the Treaty of Lakes and the accession of Skopje to NATO has made this simple: it has allowed smoking in the Balkan silica. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I come out of this Step, where all the times that democracy allowed me have defended the opinion of those who refuse to accept that the decision to give the word 'Macedonia' was supposedly correct, may I ask you all and all, the hundreds of three, to answer two questions: 'Macedonia' is Greek or not? Are the residents of the neighbouring state Greek or not? It is another thing to consent to blackmailing in something, and quite another thing to accept it within us as fair, right, as real. We are voting against Macedonia's accession to NATO, because its name contains a Greek word, while its inhabitants are not Greek. Their decision to define themselves in a Greek word, while not stating Greeks, is an unspeakable proof of altruisticism. No NATO is so strong that it eliminates the aluterism that the theft hides and only the word "Macedonia". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u98	Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, the next speaker, grants his post and alters it with Mr Venizelos. So I now call on the President, Mr Venizelos, and Mr Kammenos will follow. We are finishing with the rapporteurs and the speakers and then joining the list of speakers. Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, some time ago the Independent Greeks objected to unconstitutionalism. In fact, they objected to the Rules of Procedure for the vote on this bill, calling for a vote under Article 28(2) with an increased majority of 3/5, on the grounds that our neighbouring country is part of the North Atlantic Treaty, in the alliance, and therefore we cannot invoke Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, the solidarity clause, namely, in the event of an attack on the Armed Forces of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia against Greece. Apart from the pragmatic part, which is funny, there is a huge problem from the interpretative synonym that this position is causing until a country's former Minister of National Defence. It is like claiming that until a few days ago the manager of defence policy issues together with the Prime Minister that our argument, that in the case of a Turkish attack on Greece, Greece can invoke against allies in NATO the solidarity clause in Article 5 of the North Atlantic. To make ANELs and Mr. Kammens their "part" here, trying to apologize for keeping the pen of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kotzias when the agreement was signed in the Prespecies, they come and dismiss a fundamental argument of NATO's defence and security policy. They resolve, as I say, a problem of interpretation of the North Atlantic Treaty, which refers to the Charter of the United Nations, the responsibilities of the Security Council and the right of self-defence which each country has. Such prudence and such a lack of historical consciousness, but also of fundamental insight into how arguments can be used, developed within Parliament. Fortunately, the vast majority of the country's parliamentary forces have rejected this argument without further discussion, which is so harmful to national interests. And I now come to the main part of the speech, which I want to make today. I'm not going to deal with the fait accompli. The Greek Parliament, with the majority formed a few days ago - as it was formed - ratified the Prespecies Agreement. He voted for the law of ratification and authorizes the President of the Republic to ratify, under international law, this agreement. And today, the majority - because the infamous letters of accession were given unconditionally by the six Members to the parliamentary majority - will ratify the observation, which is the ratification of the accession protocol of our neighbour to NATO. Now we are staying with our neighbours now, a full member of NATO within a short time, on our own with the Prespecies Agreement. And the only framework within which this agreement can develop a dynamic, with Greece, to be able to play an independent role, is the field of the European Union. I would therefore like to remind the Greek Parliament of the provisions of the Presidencies Agreement on the European Union now, because that is important. NATO is ending this case within a few hours. Article 1(10)(10)(b) of the Prespecies Treaty provides for a long political transition period for the use of the name of Northern Macedonia within our neighbouring country. This famous erga omnes, northern Macedonia for the interior and abroad, for every use of bilateral and multilateral, obviously does not apply to the interior. Because the implementation of the new composite name within our neighbouring country will gradually take place and will start at the opening of every negotiating chapter in the European Union, in the relevant field - so the documents and other materials will be adapted to the field, say, of fisheries policy, because fisheries policy is, in fact, not, because of a lack of sea and entrepreneurial character, our neighbouring country - and will be completed within five years of the start of negotiations in this chapter and in the field of this chapter. These are, in order to have a conscience of what is true, what has been voted on and what we have in our hands after NATO's accession. The most critical thing, which concerns the European Union directly, to know that we all need to speak accurately - you will forgive me, because of my experience with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the representation of the Government in the early 1990s - is that Article 2(1) provides that the first part, namely Greece, agrees not to oppose the candidacy or inclusion of the second part, under the name and terminology of Article 1(3), namely Northern Macedonia, into international multilateral and regional organisations and institutions, where the first part is a member. And in order to avoid any doubt, in paragraph 4b I of that Article 2, it is foreseen that the first part, namely us, will inform the President of the Council of the European Union that he supports the opening of the accession negotiations of the second part, under the name and the terminologies of Article 1 of this Agreement. This means that Greece cannot oppose the progress of accession negotiations and the opening of funds, because this will hamper the implementation of the complex name of Northern Macedonia within the neighbouring country. So our objection will cause a delay in the implementation of the composite name. Secondly, if there are problems of not harmonising our neighbours with the European acquis, Greece's objections per chapter cannot relate to the name and terminology, but they can relate to the essential issues from a European perspective, as can any other member country. Why, of course, this investigation, which is being carried out, is a scan to see if this country is in line with the acquis communautaire, is concerned with the interests of the Union and the Member States, as members of the European Union. Therefore, this is the field in which we can move, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty, which means that our pressure must be focused on compliance, on matters that go beyond the name, to be completely covered in our fundamental argument, which is also a dogmatic position of the country in foreign policy, that we want full respect for International Law on all the crucial fronts of our country's foreign and security and defence policy. Of course, the European Union puts the candidate countries - member states under the control of the infamous Copenhagen criteria, which are criteria for international and regional security and stability, and therefore the regional security criterion, in which Greece has objected over the years, is active. Because all these criteria apply to our neighbours, both for Croatia and Slovakia and for Slovenia and for all the states that have joined the European Union and were members of Yugoslavia, before it was dissolved and, more generally, for the Southeast European region. I have to repeat that this is also true of the interpretation of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. Therefore, those who vote after the negotiation took place and used this agreement, as used, as a lever for the creation of temporary impressions and 'winners' in the micro-party field of internal policy, must carefully study the formalities and the international context in which these wordings of the Presidencies Agreement are placed. And we must, after the elections have taken place and the country has acquired another government and the country has acquired a strategy, and the country is given a democratic constitution, with conditions of national consensus, to formulate a strategy that is in the long term defending national interests, part of which is our provision for regional security, stability, peace and prosperity in the wider region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u101	Because I understand that you want to give a quick answer, but we will not do that to every speaker, because the procedure will be relaxed, here you have the floor for three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u102	Yes, Mr President, thank you. Just on two points raised by Mr Venizelos, I would like to give two clarifications. There's the assurance of the erga omnes in the deal. As is apparent from Article 1(9), all new documents, which will be issued after the entry into force of the Agreement, i.e. as soon as we ratify the Protocol, are obliged to use the new constitutional name. The transitional periods do not concern new documents, they relate to existing documents. There too, the agreement makes a distinction between documents which may be used abroad, for which there is a five-year period for the rest, which are not used abroad and which are referred to in the paragraph that you have put in Parliament's mind. That's why it's simple. There are tens of millions of documents right now. And while we can obviously impose on them the obligation, the new documents will meet their commitment, it would not be possible to automatically replace all the existing documents. On the second part of your remarks, I would like to say that I fully agree with what you have said. They are a full answer to the opposing claims of the New Democracy and I must also stress that they are the most appropriate interpretation, in favour of the national interests of an already ratified contract. I have addressed Mr Koumoutsako to the committee and told him that, once we have an agreement that has already been ratified, it does not mean that the national interest is undermined by raising an interpretation of this convention, as the other side would have wished. So you are making the national right, as is Commissioner Han in his respective statement of 29 January, clearly stated that we have no right to dismiss the Copenhagen criteria with regard to the criteria for good neighbourliness. That is the truth, and I think that this is exactly how the opposite hypocritical is being raised, especially at this particular point of undermining, the national position, how to deal with the national issue by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, that will not happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u106	For seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u107	Wait a minute, that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u108	It is a matter of substance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u109	First of all, Mr Kumucako, I have announced Mr Kammenos that he will take the floor after Mr Venizelos. Then I'll give you the floor for a minute, but that won't happen. We said that the vote will take place at 19: 00. If we take it that way, we'll be at 12 o'clock in the evening. Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much. With regard to existing documents for internal use, there is a huge deposition of material and documents for internal use. There's no control mechanism and no pressure mechanism. Our neighbours, using the agreement, will expect the opening of every negotiating chapter to spend five years of the political transition period in the specific field of capital, in order to apply the agreement, namely the double name internally. This is the absolute fact, the fact, to be honest now and to know what has happened. As far as the other thing you have said is obviously the national interest, and indeed the long-term interest. I am sure that the New Democracy, as well as my party, KINAL, and all the parties in the democratic constitutional arch, wanting to protect the national interest in the long term, will implement the agreement and develop arguments that lead to transnational political results in the European Union's lasting intergovernmental negotiation without exposing the country to the fact that an international treaty, signed by another government, has been ratified by another majority, but the state has continued to do so. I do not think there is anyone who does not accept this in the Chamber within the democratic constitutional spectrum.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u111	Mr Kammenos, I take advantage of your politeness, so that I can give Mr Kumucako the floor soon. Here, Mr Kumucako, you have the floor for two minutes and we are progressing properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I would not ask you to speak if that was not a matter of substance, which the Minister raised. Article 2(1) of the Press Agreement states: The first part, namely Greece, agrees not to join the candidacy or membership of the second part, etc. Because in the European Union the process, instead of being with NATO, is a long and thirty-five negotiating chapter, this vague wording of Article 2(1) could give the impression that Greece, through the Presidencies Agreement, has since the outset given the inalienable and fundamental right of each Member State, if it is fundamentally opposed to the accession of a candidate country, does not exercise this veto right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u113	We must reject this, though. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u114	Wait. When we put it here - I had the honour of putting it from the Step of the House - you were unable to give us a clear and binding answer at that time. After days the interview Mr Han gave, confirming that this fundamental right is not lost by any Member State - state. You know that we feel justified because our emphasis on this ambiguity of the Prespecies Agreement has led you and possibly Mr Han, who saw the debate here within the country and the doubts he has raised, to make it clear that Greece, despite the ambiguity of the Prespecies Agreement, has fully retained the fundamental right, which he has as a Member State of the Union. In other words, we have provided a service, underlining the ambiguities of the agreement you signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank President Venizelos for his knowledge. We were all aware of Article 2 in relation to erga omnes, but he explained it to us as a special constitutionalist and legal person much better. We should therefore take this into account and note once again that this agreement has too many gaps and ambiguities. In conclusion, the agreement on the last page in paragraph 9 of Article 20 explains that all the above commitments are irreversible and apply indefinitely. So, regardless of the governments of Greece - Skopje, we cannot change any conventions, especially, as it says in Article 1.3, which is the name, language and identity. So what we are talking about today, unfortunately at the moment, is a real one. It goes without saying that I will not vote for today's Act on accession, the accession funds for NATO, because it is what will ratify the Prespecies Agreement, as it was voted on by Parliament. But what I have to note today is a few procedural issues which I have raised all these days, both institutional and not just. I'll start with the letters. The House was invented the institution of the "shared MPs": the high ownership, the ANELs and Potami, the epiphany of Tsipras. This does not promote parliamentarianism and democracy. Watch out now. I am looking very hard today - I am looking into the eyes - the translater of the text of the six. Mr. Zouraris said he was dizzy on the phone to sign a letter for a full vote. I don't see any of the six here today. Question: Have they been investigated or manipulated to sign the agreement? I read the letters in the same way, because a left ghost, one night, he called them and told them to write the same ones! "I know that following the vote, which I gave on the proposal of confidence in the government, I would like my vote to be counted along with those of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies." Helena Koudoura. "I know that following my vote on the proposal of confidence in the government, I would like my vote to be counted along with those of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies." The letter is from Mr Papachristopoulos. 'I know that following the vote, which I gave on the proposal for a vote of confidence,...' and so on. This letter was from Mrs Papacosta. Mr Dannelis: 'In the light of the positive vote which I gave on the proposal of confidence in the government, I would like my vote to be counted against those of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies'. I don't know if you see. Not even a point of position has changed. What Tsipras said in his letter to the Rules of Procedure. I see that everyone says the same without any change or point of point of view. I'm continuing with Mr. Red. "As a follow-up to the vote, which I gave to the Prime Minister's proposal of confidence, I would like my vote to be counted, along with those of the MPs of the co-population." Last but not least, Mr Zouraris, who is fortunately differentiated, because he is using polytonic and has a slash in the vote. It says: "...in the continuation of the vote, which I gave on the proposal of confidence in the government, I would like my vote..." writes the word "vote" with the "vote" to be measured..." with the "...broken together with those of the MPs of the confederacy." I do not know where to start in this Chamber, which happened four years ago to become a Member. What I have read to you - and I shall be tabling it in the Minutes - is a shame on parliamentaryism. The 1969 Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties provides for a number of articles: the conventions are to be abolished when conditions such as manipulation, the exercise of violence and the financing of MPs have been violated. I see the manipulation. I don't know if you all see her. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Article 60 of the Constitution states: "The Members of Parliament have the right to express their opinion and vote against conscience". Their consciences were persecuted by a submission. By night, I would ask one of the six to tell us if they were investigated, if they were called and pressed, and how it happened that morning that they all sent the same letter, to work with us all here and the Greek voters and the Greek Republic. I'm coming to the river. Unfortunately, Mr Mavrosh is leaving right now, but I will ask him. George, my friend, please wait for a second just to hear. He said Mr. Amyras, threatening his President for the Minutes that broke into Mr. Psarianos, to reveal to us Mr. Theodorakis to whom he made commitments, long before the agreement came, that he would vote on it. Mr. George Amyras isn't here. If that is the case, if it has been agreed on a text, which has not even seen the River, it is illegal to vote. We understand that. George, I understand you. People have questions. When a Member of Parliament says 'I challenge my President, otherwise I will say that he also has commitments to third parties, outside the institutions, to vote', that is a worrying matter for democracy. Mr. Kotzias tells us "We've found, you guys, the majority since 2017, since 2018. What are you nervous about?" How's it going? Which Members have been persuaded to support an agreement that they haven't even seen? These statements are from December 2018, 2017. No one has seen the agreement, and Mr Kotzias is remarkably wandering and surely he has found the majority, without the ANELs. Then I yelled and was the barber in the government. These are a diversion of democracy if the relevant Minister knows in advance the result of the vote a year and a half before we see the text. I don't know if he'd seen it himself. These days I have been informed - and I shall submit it in the Minutes - of a petition. He's been lost, technically, for some reason. But Mr. Kalogero is missing - he's my friend Michael. I hope, when he comes, that he finds the press reports that have been filed - I will leave it in Parliament - with Protocol number 658/17-1-2019. He went to the Prosecutor's office at the Ice Bay, which he did at the Ministry of Justice, to come to the House, to Mr. Voutsi. The press report relates to Mr Kammenos's complaints against Mr Kotzias and has full recordings of Mr Kotzia's interviews, who says that in the Ministerial Council Mr Kammenos accused him of taking 50 million, he and his entire government of Skopje. I am going back to the Vienna Convention and recalling the relevant aspects of manipulation, violence and money laundering. All of this puts the deal down. If that is the case - I have told the committee a long time ago about the Prespecies - if Mr Kammenos's accusations apply and the petition comes here, Mr Voutsis - I imagine - will set up a committee to investigate the political responsibilities of Mr Kotzias and Mr Kammenos, if he is lying. If there is a truth, however, there is no Prespecies Agreement, because there is a fraudulent signature by Mr Kotzia and Mr "Hello". Signal means national treason. I am not strict on the terms, because when your Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would probably say, according to Mr Kammenos, has received money in favour of the other party, or is moving to the other place, which is negotiating, he clearly betrays the positions of his country and will therefore be charged with national treason. It's just the things and the Criminal Code. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned references, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To discuss today the interventions that are taking place in these days and the rush. Why is this rush? Why was the Embassy Agreement only discussed for two days? Why is the accession of Skopje being discussed only one day? Is NATO a procedural matter? Mr. Venizelos explained. I explained, too. We've all explained. There are gaps in the deal. This agreement is not for the benefit of the Greek State and the Greek nation. Yesterday I read in the advert committee where a teacher in Macedonia delivers lessons of Macedonian language. He's giving us his degree from the University of Cyril and Methodium. He tells us it's 10 euros an hour. He says, "Come on, I do good prices" and he gives us his phone. He delivers Macedonian language lessons! The Rainbow came and says about Macedonian ethnicity. But they will clearly claim a Macedonian nation. What will the next governments or even this, when they are dragged from natural or legal persons to the Court of Human Rights, claiming and accusing Greece of not recognising a national minority in Skopje, since they speak Macedonian language, have a Macedonian nationality - 'nationality', as the Oxford Dictionary says - number 2? In explaining the dictionary, it says that, "nationality" is nationality, when it exists in another state. That's Oxford's dictionary. I'm not saying it. The nationality, the nationality you have put into the contract, is recognized in another State. This is all worrying. There's no guarantee at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the other hand, it was a bad process, the whole of Parliament, the whole of NATO, all the countries hanging from the Papachristopoulos franchise, whether it would resign or not, that Parliament has been able to benefit from Mr Voutsi, Papachristopoulos, to 'give' him out'. The cameras wrote him down. And we all wonder how the President of Parliament assumes the responsibility of politically engaging in the resignation of a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u117	That's what you're closing down with, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u118	We wonder how, Mr Tsipras, insults the institution of the President of the Parliament, telling him what to do and whether or not to change the point of appeal. He says: 'I ask you'. It does not say 'please'. Why is this diversion? Why are we in a hurry? Why is this all happening?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Cammane, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, everyone has spoken twelve, thirteen minutes. Just give me a second, please. I am particularly concerned about this, and I am particularly concerned about our society. These are very sensitive issues. I am referring to the transfer in white of the vote as a dictator. We'll find the transmitter. I challenge them all six - and I look to them in the eyes - to reveal this evening - because it is their last chance - who called them, if they were manipulated, if they were blackmailed and why they all wrote together, who read the text, to give it to us here in the House, in order to alter democracy and to be, unfortunately, for ourselves and for us in here, Members in rent and others to have dominance and another to be in custody. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u122	Now, we're not doing this job. You will speak to your speech and answer it. But because you are one of the colleagues, the disciplined, and the very noble, I will give you the floor for a minute. Start your answer. It's self-evident why you're asking for the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u123	As the honourable Member referred to commitments, I would like to say that the only commitments made by Potami are to his positions and decisions by his institutions. These are the only commitments that the river has. And I would also like to say that, if conspiracy were Olympic sport, Greece would have many gold medals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, we are opening the list of speakers. I will read the first five of them, some of whom are in the Chamber, so the other ones will come. The first five are Mr. Amanatidis, Mr. Kikilias, Mrs. Kefalidou, Mr. Kastoris and Mr. Kalafatis. The speakers have five minutes. I see the President, who is present in the Chamber, and I close his eye, that there will be a slight tolerance of one to two minutes, but at seven minutes we will be stopped. To the fifteen speakers it means a total 30-minute burden, but that's as far as it goes. Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Balkan area and the geographical passage provided by our country to Mediterranean waters is in the middle of a strong geopolitical impact almost all the points of the horizon. In this context, strengthening the foundations for stability and security, through cooperation, which ensures greater interconnectivity, with mutually beneficial actions in energy, economy, infrastructure and transport, can only be our country's strategic objective. The fate of the peoples and the countries of the Balkans, after all, is interlinked. Our cultural ties are long and undeniable. The Balkan space gives rise to history. Thus, the only way to successfully address the current challenges in this area is a coherent cross-border regional and international cooperation strategy, but also a common European path for the Balkans, which will decisively cancel the forces of geopolitical destabilisation and close once and for all the painful chapter of border change. Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer the question which the rapporteur of the New Democracy, as far as we are concerned, is asking Greece, with our Parliament today's declaration. I called it "painful", because it does not understand that the application made by the neighbouring country to join NATO was made under its new name, made under the name of Northern Macedonia, not by its constitutional name. That's the first. The second: is that not what Bucharest in 2008 had not given us, and that is why we did not accept or pressure and finally NATO made the decision that the difference should be resolved? The purely complex name, as Kostas Karamanlis said in his position to a journalist's question, just after the session, to Mr. Study? You didn't get it then, we got it now. So, first profit is the complex geographical name of Northern Macedonia. Immediately remove the Vergina symbol, within six months from everywhere. That's in the deal. The application of Articles 7 and 8, books, names, the Sun of Vergina and from there, and the letter to all the UN countries, where they will now be asked to report under the new name, is the tangible results of this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u126	The Sun isn't coming out!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Kalafati, the Sun of Vergina is removed. It's in the deal, Mr. Kalafati. The second question is: Who guarantees that he will not go to Turkey? But the deal itself. You are stuck in the two articles, which, falsely, refer to the Greek people, pushing people to the far right. Half of the agreement refers to how exactly relations with its new name will be developed with its neighbour. For language: I hope that you will support the agreement, because if you do not follow this, which is a follow-up to the agreement that the Greek Parliament has voted on, the others, which is referred to in Article 7 and 8 for the protection of the history of Greece, etc. will you apply them? Will you admit them? Of course, here you do not accept the contract tabled by Mr Katrugalos, in relation to what "nationality" means by the European Council, where Greece signed it on 6-6-1997. Do you agree or not? Greece signed it and says that "nationality" is citizenship, a citizen's legal relationship with its state. You can't admit that and you're lying. You are trapped - and I will explain what I mean by'snatched' - and self-snatched. Your argument for nationality and ethnicity, which is fake, entangles you in not being able to see and ask how we tell them. The deal doesn't determine how we're gonna tell them. They themselves testified here to the House and said that "it is not about our ethnicity" and that there are ethnic groups, Slavs, Albanians, Vlachs and another name, which I do not remember. But you, entangled in giving this nationality agreement, insist that you call them that. If tomorrow, tomorrow, which is not the case, you become a government and go to this country, or we have differences, the arguments that you are using now will be used by the forces of the neighbouring country to prove what they might want to prove. That is why the Minister tells you that you are doing harm to national interests. On the other hand, I saw an indirect attempt, perhaps I would say immediately, to give credentials and justify your attitude, 'no'. Don't worry, they know you've always been 'yes'. Now, if you do, anyway, it is because you tell them that 'Look, we will not vote, but don't worry, we would do differently'. Ladies and gentlemen, by ending and respecting the time requested by the President, I will say this: Lessons on how he acts patrioticly, he does not accept. She does not accept why the Left defended the country with its ideas and blood. And to use a phrase by a known hero,'mainly with her blood'! You're telling us about the historical weight. Do you take over the historical burden of a failure, of today's historic, if not done, and after ten, fifteen years the history of writing that this House had a chance to ratify and end and that country did not take it and is recognized by its constitutional name? We're taking over the historical weight. But you will be writing in history as the political force, which, in order not to be dissolved, succumbed to its extreme right-wing component, dismantling the position that has been shaped for years, as we have shown. Where do we want to drive our country and neighborhood? I'll give you the words of some acquaintance from Thessaloniki. "We don't want Thessaloniki either a city enclosed and hostile in its immediate homeland, a city caught in fears and superstitions, in spells and in voices, in a sad and uncomfortable city that doesn't mean its historic mission or even its self-proof interests, a city that trembles its rich future and of course doesn't plan it, a city that fears nothing and hides like a small child in the aprons of our glorified mother." Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving the path of peace, solidarity and co-development, in a new era of regional stability, prosperity and continuity of history, and the Greek people will honour the fact that it has been historically responsible for historical times! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, sixteen students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 1st High School Agaleo. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kikilis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Ladies and gentlemen, in very critical decisions, which have been made here within the Greek Parliament, the great parliamentary men have chosen between personal interests, the personal political interest - fair to a point - and the national interest or else the patriotic interest. Mr Kyriazidis, I would like to say that my sense is that the more anyone is relying on powers, the more they are dominated by them. Mr Tsipras chose to integrate this very important national issue into his strategy for the elections in 2019. I say this, in view of the fact that he considers and considers, above and above all, his extension for a few months at the Prime Minister's headquarters and his associates at ministerial level, that the force he draws from great external interests gives him this right, which, if you like, extends a certain number of ways, with what I see and hear in the last 24 hours on the resolution of Turkish, Cypriot, energy, etc. I would like to say that it expects personal benefits, party benefits, and that is how it mortgages national laws on the biennial. Why does New Democracy not vote for its NATO accession protocol? Because, Minister, the Prespecies Agreement and through these Protocols, for which there was a horizontal agreement across all political parties, has been involved for many years - a sacred agreement - and no one has dismantled it. And it came to break this national unity with you - not of course, other parties - and your decision to assign identity, language and ethnicity, as many times we have explained and you do not accept it. This, ladies and gentlemen, produces political products of this decision irreversible and damage to the country. The hard rhetoric is out of me when it comes to my colleagues and the Prime Minister of the country. However, one cannot ignore the damage that has been done. I come to the naval, defence issues and the way in which we were looking forward to dealing with them, and you have given them very easily. You said to us: 'Yes, but we will embrace Skopje'. It is obvious that you have created another ally in NATO after Albania, Skopje for Turkey. So I ask you: If we want to incorporate the Lemnos airport as a naval base and look forward to benefits from it, can we see whether two are to our side? If, in the Turkish, demilitarised zone, we want to do naval exercises and thus defend our interests, can we see whether these two are in our sights? Did you not hear the congratulations of the Turkish Presidents and Prime Ministers to Skopje and the thanks of the Macedonian officials to Turkey for their accession? Can you not understand this, which is obvious, that when a small force, when a small state can by itself attract other powers, third parties, to other geostrategic and geopolitical games, that changes the data? If it hadn't changed it, Minister, then Turkey would have no problem creating the Kurdish state on its northern and eastern borders. Scared of Kurds in themselves? Obviously not. But he thinks that the interests that will be created in the region through them will obviously change the data at the expense of Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not taken all the data into account for the future. You have created a state with the shell of "Macedonism" in which the trumpet, i.e. Slaves, Albanians, Bulgarians, operates. I fear that, instead of stabilising the Balkans with your decision, you are destabilising them. I feel that foreign policy must become institutional, serious and serious. You didn't do it like that. I would like to say one last thing, Mr President, because I do not want to abuse the time. I told you yesterday by television that, in the two and a half hours of Mr. Tsipras' debate with Mr. Erdogan, energy issues were raised, in my view, unacceptable and that the Greek Prime Minister did not have any authority either from the Republic of Cyprus or from anyone to raise the energy issues, for which he cannot have the full picture at the moment, as he is a Prime Minister on a runway and never the National Representation or the Greek people gave him the right, through his promises, to mortgage their future. The Republic of Cyprus will have its citizens with the highest per capita income, if their energy goes well, while in the Annan plan - if you remember, some who were in favour - you promised them misfortune and curses and that there would be no later. There's a Republic of Cyprus later. It is prospering within the European Union and things are doing fine for them. Be careful what you hold for the Greeks. Be careful what you hold for our Cypriot brothers. I tell you again that if the energy, which is the cornerstone over foreign policy, the cornerstone of geostrategics, as they changed the data for the last forty years in our discussions with the Turks, you're putting it the wrong way, you'll find us all in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u130	We are moving with our fellow Member from the Democratic Alliance, Mr. Chara Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, could today be a day of national consensus? Unfortunately, it's not. It could be that today's ratification of the Protocol on NATO membership of our small neighbour is the result of a comprehensive national dialogue, a nationally dignified negotiation, a good solution for our country as far as possible. The government didn't want it. He handled it behind closed doors with the signatures Tsipras - Kotzia - Kammenos, which are now intertwining. It could be a day that Greece would have had the opportunity to solve the Skopje gap to its advantage. Instead, he gave Mr Zafe the monopoly of Macedonian identity and language, a uterus of suffering for tomorrow in the country and for the next generations. If the Prespecies Agreement was not filled with unspeakable and degrading provisions for our country, it could be accepted that the neighbour's accession to NATO could be accepted. Instead, 70% of the Greeks consider the agreement to be inconsistent to betrayal for our national interests, because simply, the government has allocated the diplomatic weapons it had as a country. He didn't negotiate. She made Skopje's demands as her own. Ladies and gentlemen, the accession protocol we are debating today is the first result of a painful agreement - a pity with Mr Zaev at the Prespes, in fact, before the Prime Minister and a delegation of Ministers - to call our fellow countrymen 'Macedonians'. As for Mr. Tsipras, it does not seem to be disturbed by the painful finding that he gives the other side a powerful foundation to continue to undermine, not only our historical achievements, but also our activity, through the names of origin of products or universities. Blinding in the face of the disastrous consequences of the agreement, she chooses to characterize "stages", "latics", "right-wing" of those who disagree, and this is done by a government synonymous with political anomaly and division, a government that, with all its policies, is stirring consciously, old wounds of the country, which needed a war and a dictatorship to heal. Let Mr. Tsipras come to my region, let him come to the city of Drama, which now, you know, is delimited on the basis of what he conspired with Mr. Zaev as the "North Area of Part One" because - put it right in your mind - so now the Greek Macedonia, ladies and gentlemen will be defined. And I ask you: did Greece win something from the Prespecies Agreement, which it did not already have? Did he win a good relationship with Skopje? There's been an end to the Cold War. Did he gain communication and economic presence? She's always had her. So why so much violence? Why so insistence on an agreement that united a group of ethnic groups in Skopje and divided the Greeks into 'thinkers' and 'brains', to 'fascists' and 'progressive'? Did that not wake up a sarcastic national division? But do you know why? Firstly, why did you not care for a minute about the heavy price that the place pays, without conditions, to the pressure of the international player. Secondly, because by doing the gifts of the world's greats, you thought you were getting a little more time for your governmental life. And thirdly, in order for your Chief to satisfy his personal myth, that as a child's squatting of the thrones he grew up, he became a young, nice and fatal Prime Minister, he took the country out of the memorials, of course selling what we had and we didn't solve - supposedly - Skopje, giving a name, ethnicity, a nonexistent language, entry into NATO and a European perspective in the neighbouring country. We are also preparing new surprises, because the trip to Turkey is still not deciphered. Was that worth it? Oh, no! The answer is that it was not worthy and let us also take into account the defection of the institutions, the insult of any parliamentary tradition, the atmosphere of extortion, the dismantling of two parties with the willing MPs too. Greece is now being called upon to ratify a protocol for the accession of northern Macedonia to NATO. However, once we have completed this ratification - a memorial of what the ratification of the agreement has buried, the Skopje can in peace discover a new internal problem and interpret the agreement otherwise. Our country's history has made us suspicious and rightly. What prevents the eight VMRO Members who voted in favour of constitutional changes from having a new crisis of conscience and from requesting, in order to be consistent with themselves, constitutional amendments and the new name to apply since ratification of the agreement, once Skopje has joined the European Union? Why not? After all, the government did not understand the unilateral amendment of the agreement by the neighbours before the ink drys. Already began to plunder. Ladies and gentlemen, your staying in power is a blow to democracy, the economy, security, national sovereignty and we will pay it dearly for many years. That's enough! You will remain in history as the government, who has been able to do so much harm in so short a time, for such cheap reasons. Fortunately, the masks fell, the show is over. Give at least the finale - which is before the gates - the opportunity to stand! It is sad that you do not understand the national good or you cannot defend it. We are therefore voting against this ratification once again. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u132	We're moving on with Mr. Castore Stario, MP SYRIZA. Next, Mr. Kalafatis, Mr. Shahinides and Mr. Ursouzidis. Here, Mr. Castore, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with one wish, to create such conditions, which will not require defensive or aggressive coalitions, such as NATO, because the understanding, good will, solidarity and peace will prevail, and to dismantle such coalitions, because they will have no reason to exist. Unfortunately, however, the wishes are not enough. We must also work in this direction. The current government is also working in this direction. In my opinion, the most important reason to defend the Prespecies Agreement is peace, peace in the Balkans, to give peace to our region, which has not been accidentally characterised as Europe's silicon warehouse, an area that boils, which can be a factor of destabilisation in the wider region. I think it is a common assumption that we are going through an extended period of uncertainty. The generalised and wholehearted crisis is changing, not just economic data, but society. And these social changes, the marginalisation of citizens, market and profit domination create new conditions and political changes, but still - I would say - and structural changes to global organisations, in global formations. What else is Brexit, for example, the exit of Great Britain from Europe? In these circumstances, the poverty of many, is a good thing to cultivate nationalism, racism and hatred. In such circumstances, it breaks the egg and the snake and starts biting, poisoning. And you know, snakes bite and poison the zests. In these circumstances there are also ground for the timeless traitors to hide and to be presented as patriots. But what is patriotic today? It is a patriotic attitude and politics, which ensures peace in our region. It is to ensure the conditions of growth and prosperity for our children, but also for the children of our neighbours. It is to secure national interests, which need open roads and allies at the border and not enemies. patriotism is respect, solidarity, good neighbourliness. Patriotism is the truth. So let us leave hypocrisy, gentlemen, and let us see reality. What do we have in front of us? We have a country and a people, which through very difficult economic and political conditions, have been able and driven from their administration by a power of extreme right-wing nationalists and have opened the way for their integration into international organisations, such as NATO and the European Union, hoping that they will find a better future. They decide where they're going to join, we don't. Twenty-nine nomads will decide if we accept them. The first time they tried it in 2008, they said 'no, you will not join if you do not fulfil certain terms and conditions'. Who was that? We said, as a country - that was the national line - a complex name with geographical identification, erga omnes, that is to say, use for all uses and put an end to their alkaliism. Then we agreed they could come in. I guess we agreed earlier. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a little longer. Remember that on 13 September 1995 we signed the Interim Agreement. Since then, some things have been going through. FYROM went to international courts, went to the Court of Justice in The Hague and took a decision that says they can join their constitutional name, which at that stage was "Macedonia". I have here - and I shall table in the Minutes - both the Interim Agreement, Article 11 with paragraph 1 and paragraph 2, which says about the procedure and the decision of the International Court of Justice on publications at that time. It's from 5-12-2011. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Asterios Kastoris, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But they had to sit on the table and discuss seriously under the aegis of the UN finding a commonly accepted name. And that's finally what happened. What do we have today? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we arrived here, where the two governments without nationalisms and enthusiasms sat on the table and ended up in a few things. Who? Complex name, "North Macedonia" with geographical identification, erga omnes for all uses and, furthermore, beyond those - which was the national line - we succeeded in changing the constitution, through which every trace of insulating from their books, from their flags, from their symbols, change names, streets, squares, airports, abolish or change the name of statues that were set up and we know what happened in the previous period. Also, constitutionalally it is guaranteed - and admit - that their language is a South-Slavic idiom and that what is related to ancient civilization, to ancient history, what is related to ancient Macedonia is heritage and continuity of Greece and Greek Macedonia. So we have won more - much more - than was the national line, than it has been since, for some years now, we have had to fight. And why didn't we make it? Because all this time there was an inactivity, there was no organized work in order to be conquered. The people, this people of our neighbours, have now decided to join NATO. The point is, he's going to join us anyway, they're going to get them. The question is, what terms? By name of the constitutional version they had, the motto "Macedonia" or the name that emerged after the Treaty of Ambassadors? The question is, can Greece, based on the specific association of forces today in our region, but also globally, be a factor of stability, development, cooperation, or do we prefer the role of the isolated, grifter, the role of stiffness that everyone turns behind him? Or let alone the nationalist, the aggressive or the militarist who says that Macedonia is only one Greek or that says "on arms, to weapons, to take Skopje!".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u135	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are talking about alutism for others when Mr Samaras shouted at the motto "Macedonia is one and Greek", what else is that? So let's leave hypocrisy, gentlemen of the counterpopulation. This rhetoric leads to dangerous paths. This rhetoric, the divisive, led to some invasion battalions and armed them in order - fortunately few were - to burn our homes, threaten our families and our own lives. But they are not all those who complain about them. These few people know very well that they won't scare us, they won't scare us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u137	Then why are they doing it? They do so to scare society, to cultivate nationalism and racism, to cultivate hatred.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u138	Now you're gonna force me to intervene. Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u139	And, unfortunately, these paths lure priests, loyal citizens of the church of love. These paths lead to the nourishment of a harvest that will swallow us all without discrimination. And not just us. Along with us and democracy and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u140	I won't stand again. I see Mr. Voutsi in front of me and he's staring at me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, his house suffered nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u142	I don't collide. This is where I've had enough of these issues. Don't tell me. But I see the President and he's staring at me. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 11th General High School of Patras (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stavros Kalafatis, Member of the New Democracy at Thessaloniki, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 11 years ago in Bucharest, Costas Karamanlis, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dora Bakoyannis and Minister of National Defence Vangelis Meimarakis, were faced with history. The leaders of the NATO countries came to the summit determined to call for Macedonia to join the alliance. Already more than a hundred and twenty countries had recognized the new state called "Macedonia" and the land was lost under our feet. And yet that day the flow of history changed direction. In view of the Greek determination the leaders of NATO countries accepted the Greek position, made it an ally and summarized it in five words: first solution, following an invitation to join. From that time on, the pressures began to turn from Athens to Skopje. The Skopje began to realize the cost of their insanity and Greece no longer had any reason to rush. Unfortunately, the current government did not want to use Bucharest's decision. He did not want to take advantage of the Skopje's vow to enter NATO. He just wanted to pose as a deliverer of foreign pursuits, to prove how convenient it is for their own interests. So we are now at this very point. The government grants the Skopje names, identity and language, just to put them in NATO an hour earlier. It rapes democracy, tramples the will of the majority of Greeks. It came to the point of curseing the Greeks and celebrating the praise of the Natian. He came to the point of asking if we know what foreign leaders say in their meetings about each other's attitude. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we know. They welcome the fact that Alexis Tsipras accepted everything that all his predecessors rejected. They celebrate the late natonic partner and confess that they failed to extract "yes" from Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as they failed to extract from either Antonis Samaras or Kostas Karamanlis. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks, and above all the Macedonians, want relationships of friendship and cooperation with all our neighbours, we want the neighbouring states to join the Euro-Atlantic institutions, we want in this neighbourhood to reap security, stability, peace, to become Greece's East and West bridge, north and south, to become Thessaloniki an economic, commercial and educational centre for the whole of Southeast Europe. But our will is not enough and this will not be guaranteed by this agreement - a monster of the lake of the Prespes. It is undernourished by the unscrupulous corrosion perceptions of our neighbours, it is undernourished by the fact that the current government is counting backwards and instead of pushing the whistlers, abandoning centuries, instead of dazzling, fuelling alutism, instead of solving, it creates even greater problems. And one last thing. It is mentioned in Article 2 of the Agreement that Greece will not oppose the accession of Skopje to international organisations that it is involved in. Interpretations that sacrifice the rights that we have as a member of the European Union are not accepted and by us it will not be possible - the President of New Democracy clearly said so - to retreat. We are not going to accept that Greece has less rights than our partners. We will not accept either opening or closing any of the thirty-five chapters of the accession process if Greece's positions are not met. Ladies and gentlemen, today's procedure is laid down, dictated and imposed by the Ambassadors' Agreement. It recommends the application of Article 2(4). It is an integral part of the Ambassadors' Agreement. It is an executive part of an agreement that we voted against. That is why our position is negative. We do not ratify the Macedonian accession protocol to NATO. We are not canceling it because we disagree with the pact which has provided for it and which imposes it. We do not do so because we refuse to engage in the crime committed against our Macedonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u144	We proceed as follows: The floor will be taken by Mr.Ioannis Sahinides, Mr. George Ursouzidis, Mr. Nicholas Panagiotopoulos and Mr.Nicholas Karathanasopoulos. After the speech the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Rabbit, will be given and we will continue with the list. Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Whatever you do, however you try, Macedonia was, is and will be a unique one. Besides, this is the difference between us and all of you. For us there are no lost homelands, for us there are only slaves. Following the vote on the accustomed Prespecies Agreement with which you granted Macedonia's name to the Skopje, you are now bringing the ratification of the Protocol on Skopje membership to NATO. So in NATO, in the alliance in which we are members, apart from us are members of the Turks, our pre-eternal enemies, and you want to add to this alliance and the Skopje. And it is a NATO that acts as a military arm and as a head of the spear of US planning against Greece and Russia. But here comes the question: How will NATO work in the future? How will it work? The President of the United States himself, in an interview with the TIMES in London, said NATO is now obsolete because he has not helped in the fight against terrorism at all, but remains important as a military organisation. But let us see what NATO has done, our 'good allies' over time for our country. Where was NATO in September 1955 in the City? Where was NATO in 1974 in our Cyprus where it did not just stop but helped establish Attilas? Where's NATO today? He was supposed to protect our sea borders from the invasion of illegal immigrants. NATO, i.e. basically the United States of America, has two meters and two weights. They consider refugees and economic migrants to be invaded by our maritime and land borders, while they build walls at their borders to prevent such phenomena. So to her, the good alliance you want to add to the Skopje. But remember Article 36 of the Skopje constitution, which states that democracy guarantees particular social security rights to anti-fascist war veterans and all Macedonian liberatory wars, to disabled wars, to those who have been deported and imprisoned for the ideas of the special identity of the Macedonian people. This reference leaves an open window for future claims and essentially caresss the ears of those who want to dream of a "great Macedonia of the Aegean" in which, of course, on the basis of their own claims they would like to include Greek territories. That is what the Skopje said today. So you want to join NATO. Who's the army? With what Armed Forces? With unexistent structures? With five helicopters and ten tanks, any of them had previously granted another treacherous Greek government? So these non-existent soldiers will normally participate in the naval structures and their uniforms upstairs will have sewn the sun of Vergina and the sacred name of our Macedonia. You, then, are the servants of globalisation, along with Soros, the loan sharks and the various suspicious power centers you want the Skopje in NATO. But why are all the Americans and the Germans pushing you to join? They jointly set up an artificial economic and social crisis and after impoverished our homeland, weakened it negotiatively and always naturally finding them useful idiots, they come to play on the back of the Greek people a lousy economic game on which they will base their own economic policy for the next decades. The pillars of this dirty scenario are two, energy and transport. And our homeland had the curse, unfortunately, being in a key geostrategic position and had to control it in every way. At the border, however, Macedonia-Kosovo is the world's largest US base, Camp Bondsteel. It is only two hours away from our northern border, it has four thousand acres, consisting of three hundred buildings, ten thousand military personnel, hundreds of forty aircraft and helicopters, and it has the heaviest military equipment in Europe today. This basis is the coordinating accounting centre for all other US bases in the South-East Mediterranean. Once Skopje has joined NATO, they will transfer their air base from Aviano, Italy. You remember very well that that was where British and American bombers were starting, which were bombing Serbia. Southeast, however, on this basis - and I am closing with that, Mr President - they intend to create a second largest naval base - American, which will be the purpose of the Balkans' surveillance, because that will pass the nine hundred kilometres long oil pipeline, which will connect the Black Sea to the Adriatic via Bulgaria, Skopje and Albania and will carry a daily of fifty thousand barrels. What the Skopjes want is seen by the consortium they have already set up, the originals of which are AMBO. What does it mean? Other information: (a) Albanian Macedonian Bulgarian Oil. You knew that before you signed the Prespecies Agreement. That is why and the substance that your trustees are cutting to join NATO. So we call on the Greeks in the soul and the heart to fight together with the movement of the nationalists of the Golden Dawn in every political and legal way to overthrow the Prespecies' Agreement and its consequences. Our Macedonia is not sold or granted to anyone. It's part of the soul of Hellenism and we don't negotiate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u146	We shall proceed with Mr. George Ursouzidis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the ratification of the protocol on the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic of Northern Macedonia to NATO. The new constitutional name "Democracy of Macedonia" is the one mentioned in the protocol, which is not so many pages. And I wonder how you didn't notice. So I read: 'Article 1. With the entry into force of this Protocol, the Secretary-General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation shall send an invitation to accede to the Treaty by all Contracting Parties to the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia.’. And since you are saying - and rightly so - that this protocol is a follow-up to this Prespecies Agreement, you understand that what you have said so far in relation to the name falls into the void, since the new name of the neighbouring country is explicitly laid down in Article 1. It is therefore finalising the "Democracy of Macedonia" as well as its position as the "Republic of Northern Macedonia", which is geographically defined and has referred to the 19th and 20th century. As of today, then, it has become a definitive end to the counterfeiting of history. They recognize that they have nothing to do with ancient Greek culture and ancient Macedonia. Neighbours also recognize that they are Slavs and the Slavic language. That's what the deal says. These will be submitted to the UN immediately after ratification by the other NATO member states. The black propaganda of state-owned private channels, the basketball-centred parties and its paradoxes, ever mighty power, has fallen into the void. Informal citizens have not been lured from the words of the rich and the great populists. They supported the efforts of mutual understanding and cooperation between the two peoples. The more time will pass and we will move away from the deadlocked policy of the past decades, the more understandable the real benefit of co-operation and cooperation will be. The agreement is the epitome of the prosperity of the two peoples. It is the clearing of our differences, the delimitation of the concepts "ancient Macedonia" and "Macedonia of the 19th and 20th century". I feel very strongly responsible for the duty to confess the truth and to hear the truths unscathed with the reality of the state of the populist, truths that do not go through the large state channels. The faces and practices that have been followed in our national issue are revealing the purpose of the rulers of falsehood and hypocrisy. I quote statements from representatives of the Greek Government at the highest level of the last decades: Evangelos Venizelos from the UN Step in 2014, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Vice-President of the Government of Samaras, notes: "We propose a mutually acceptable name with a geographical designation before the word "Macedonia" for each use." It is also well known that the then Prime Minister of the country, Mr Samaras, was dealing with sues. And so he got his attention. Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr. Avramopoulos, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, followed by this Chamber, which said in favour of the complex name by geographical definition, Mr. Leventis, who has completely unmistakable things. There is, of course, also a number of citizens and colleagues who react in a way that, I would say, no one can explain it but to account for the irresponsibility. Therefore, bitter truths relating to the practice of people who have put their party and personal interests above the national should be heard. Here I will make a reference to Mr. Merjo, the man who is today being put by the same people who have previously attempted to desecrate the protected sacred place of the ancient Macedonians, the Ayes, trying to install the waste treatment plant and the landfill site in the heart, at the portal of the Aegean. The people were in the Ministry of Culture, at that time Mr. Venizelos and Mrs. Mendoni, President of the KAS, followed by Mr. Zachopoulou with Mr. Tatoulis Minister, Mr. Liapis with Mr. Zachopoulou, who cancels the previous positive placement and ends in 2009, where you say that he ratted this use at the portal of Berna? The deceased Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, as Minister of Culture, with the Secretary-General and President of the CSCE, Mr. Davila. That's what history says. This is as far as Mr. Merjo is concerned. An image is a thousand words. This is the position, and that is the document that the Society of Macedonian Studies then submitted to which Mr Merzos presided and honored it. It is well known that Mr. Merzos has nothing to do with the Left. So I come to read just a small text, Mr President, from that document of the Society of Macedonian Studies that honors its history: "The attempt to desecrate the space on behalf of its protector, the Greek state, has been offended to the Council of State. With the above data, blindness of the competent authorities is apparent and multiplely harmful. Ophthalmophane, too, the international self-defence of Greece. So who's gonna keep us from the guards? Lots of people. We Macedonians are here. And by themselves or by many, we will guard our Macedonia as always. All right, well, one of the devils. Long before it's too late for them, the blind and the ex-ficio wise! President Nikos Merzos, General Secretary Teresa Pentzopoulos - Valala". [[At this point, the Member, George Ursouzidis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the end, Mr President, you will allow me to thank and express my gratitude to the experts who have devoted their lives to this issue, understanding it in depth, so that they can provide us with the necessary knowledge to overcome chronic strangles and fraudulent policies that have dragged the issue over decades at the expense of the two peoples. I refer to Mr. Sfeta, Mr. Antonopoulos, Mr. Sargianides, Mrs. Kavanel, Mr. Chrysanthe, Mrs. Peraki, Mrs. Kappa, Mr. Angelos Syrigos, Mr. Charis Pabukis, Mr. Nikos Zaikos, Mr. Iacov. The criticism that has been made by several of the names I mentioned, such as Mr Syrigou and Mr Sargianides, has been constructive, has helped to understand distortions that may exist in the implementation of the agreement and to take our measures to deal with it. I thank them, therefore, for that reason. After all, "the pretext with which free-generation is glowing is born is born." That's what the King Ferrade tells us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u148	Parliamentarian Kavala of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. I never expected, ladies and gentlemen, that the day would come for me to live through this Parliament, the Left, to contribute to the enlargement of NATO, this killing machine for Mr Tsipras, the instrument of American imperialism for the comrades who have travelled, have written so many kilometres in marches against this murder machine and its imperialist pursuits. As someone said, of course, I have 'beginnings, but if you don't like them, I have others'. You're discovering other principles today, since the previous ones...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u150	Graucho Marx said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u151	Graucho Marx said so, of course, Mr. Xydakis and not Carl. That's right. That big comedian. So today, ladies and gentlemen, we are monitoring the government majority, including those who have signed a certificate of parliamentary opinions for what they will vote on in the future, ending the work, the work undertaken by Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias, with the tolerance of Mr Kammenos, who, when he could do something, did nothing and in the time that was June 2018. When he could have supported our motion of censure, he did not do so and allowed Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias to go to sign the Prespecies Agreement in order to satisfy the wishes and geopolitical interests of the powerful international scene. It is acceptable, but to the detriment of the country's national interest. Inadmissibility and interpretation of the Greek people, ignoring and despising the will of its overwhelming majority, before Mr Tsipras comes to insult them already, the Greeks, the Macedonians, the millions of those who did not want and disapprove and anger with the Prespecies Agreement, as a little - very foolish, obviously me among them. So you come today and relinquish the New Democracy for contradictory behaviour you contribute to the Mediterranean enlargement. The ratification of the Neighbourhood Accession Protocol to NATO is the follow-up to the Prespecies Agreement. After all, this is also provided for in the very body of the agreement in a specific article. The New Democracy does not vote for the observation, as it did not vote for the agreement, not because we do not support the Euro-Atlantic Agreement and our role in NATO, but because we believe that the status of our country in NATO, as a member of NATO, should not be at the expense of national interests. That is what we have always supported as a party. When Constantine Karamanlis withdrew Greece from NATO's military arm, he did so because he made sure at that time that the country's interests imposed it. Then she also imposed its reintegration when those conditions were missing. So is Costas Karamanlis in Bucharest. He did not hesitate to go against the will of the very powerful international scene, when he believed - and we all believed with him - that this imposed the national interest. You have had the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to take advantage of this favourable geopolitical situation in recent years and the great diplomatic weapon of the country, namely, the post 'first solution to nomadic and post-integration', which our allies had accepted in NATO, but also in the European Union and, if you like, was the basic profit of Bucharest. But you didn't. You didn't care that much about it, apparently. After all, over time many of you supported the name "Macedonia" and a solution to the name "Macedonia" as the constitutional name in the previous constitution, before reviewing the neighbour's one. So you brought a bad and problematic agreement. It has already revealed its problematic elements. Before the ink drys, Mr. Zaev, a follower of the Greek Prime Minister of America, spoke of "we the Macedonians", according to Zaev and "you the Greeks". Obviously, I, who am a Greek Macedonian and feel Greek Macedonian, can no longer use myself in relation to this term. Obviously, I have to count myself as residents of the northern region of the first part, as stated in the agreement. Later - a few days ago - he said in a statement that 'the time has come for Macedonia to come to Europe and Europe to Macedonia' - what Northern Macedonia now in the agreement? - while voting in the referendum, the map of "Greek Macedonia", with its southern border in the Aegean, appeared in all its majesty, from Nestos, Kavala to Olympus, Pieria. Aren't these elements intensified and fomented - and nothing has been done about this - the saturation of the neighbors? We have seen that erga omnes already since its establishment is problematic, since it will only apply within the neighbour when the accession process is completed in the European Union. Until the negotiations in the many chapters take place, the neighbour will use the name "Macedonia's Republic of Macedonia" in its internal documents under the agreement. So the erga omnes goes for a walk, it goes for a future. As regards the Macedonian language, demands in Northern Greece are already being promoted for learning the "Macedonian language", this South-Slavic dialect. The footnote, of course, will soon be forgotten. The Uranium Arc has already demanded that the "Macedonian Reader" be distributed to schools and universities. Aren't these events of neighbor's alutism? As regards the trade name of the Greek products, when they are consumed in litigation in order to ensure the continuation of the use of the term "Macedonian-Macedonian", they will do so no longer from a disadvantage rather than from an advantageous position. The elements of the historical heritage may have been safeguarded and ensured, in particular the ancient Greek heritage of Alexander the Great, etc. But, ladies and gentlemen, does Greek history stop at Alexander the Great? What about the Byzantine emperors of Macedonian dynasty? Should we "know" them? Should it be reviewed on the basis of the work of the Interdisciplinary Committee? What about the Macedonian Fight? Will students be asked to forget about it or to "know" it from the Interdisciplinary Committee? So we already see problematic points. That's a lot. You tell us that nothing happens and that we prevent the small state and the hug with Turkey. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A very small tolerance, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u152	This is what you're doing, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u153	...Mr. Demetrov was visiting Turkey to confirm the strategic relationship with Erdogan. He made statements, too. So here's the results! Ladies and gentlemen - I shall finish, Mr President - when you pull the trigger, the bullet goes off and does not come back. The government's majority pulled it out in June 2018, when the agreement was signed. The gun put it in your hand, Mr. Burnman, who is now wrinkling and plowing. The bullet hit the trunk of Greece, hit Macedonia. It remains to be determined whether the severe wound will cause irreparable harm or if something can be cured.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Panayotiotopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u155	We will exhaust the means so that something can be healed, although the situation is now very difficult. We are voting against the ratification protocol because the agreement is nationally detrimental. It raises and does not dismantle - within introductory - "Macedonian" pervertism, because it opens the way not to peace and stability, but to adventures and instabilities in our neighborhood inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u156	The procedure will continue with the Members. Karathanasopoulou, Herring, Dannelly, Triantafyllos, Zourari and Kotzia. After Mr. Kotzias, Mr. Loverdos will follow, who will be given the floor as a parliamentary representative from the Democratic Assent. Then there are two other speakers left and the parliamentary representatives, who please inform the Bureau of when they want to speak. Karathanasopoulos, MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. The ratification of the Protocol is part of and serves the government's strategic choice. What is this strategic choice? This is no more than support for the needs of the bourgeoisie. This support is also the uterus of all the problems of the people's family. These needs, that is to say, the needs of capital, are in the national interest, when on the other hand these needs are the people who are being smuggled. So, internally, in the name of creating a more favourable environment for the action of business groups, you are breaking the rights of the working class, the rights of the people, and you are sacrificing the satisfaction of the people. Outside, this strategy goes through the logic of upgrading our country and strengthening Greece's role in the wider region, which in just Greek means new measures to facilitate the economic penetration of Greek businesses in the Balkan region. It is precisely this option of our country's bourgeoisie that coincides with the Euro-Atlantic designs in the Balkans, in an area where competition is exacerbated between the United States, NATO and the European Union on the one hand and Russia and China on the other. These are competitions which, of course, focus on the presence of these forces in the region, but also on the particular economic interests. So, in such an intensified competition environment, Greece is becoming a useful'mente' of American policy, European Union policy in the region, and that is why it is extracting the credits of the American government and of Mr Trump, the American Ambassador, the Secretary-General of NATO and Merkel. Our people, of course, say this: "Tell me your friend and the one who applauds you, to tell you who you are." So the strengthening of the American military presence in the region is doing nothing but defending the economic interests in a game of sharing and releasing the markets in a game of construction of the pipelines for the transport of energy sources. With the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic to NATO, it is possible to strengthen this military presence, that is, the NATO military machine and the Americans in the region. So, what are you doing? You are even more claiming the position of the people's killers, thus multiplying the risks of military conflict in the region, where Greece will find itself at the heart of these military ties. So far, this development, namely the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic to NATO, has strengthened the peace, as the SYRIZA Members and the Government themselves claim. There is nothing to say here, except that science raises its hands up when it is known that the Americans, NATO and the European Union are the main destabilisation factor in the region. They do not hesitate to change the borders and they have done so in recent years after the overthrows of socialism. Who dissected the single Yugoslavia and created protector states? Who have benefited from nationalism, precisely to impose these border changes? The Americans, NATO, the European Union. SYRIZA and the government are coming to blame the JRC, saying that there is no Macedonian membership of NATO, so also in the Prespecies Agreement that there is no "left no" and that the JRC is involved with nationalism. Who, really, is involved in nationalism? For four years, really, did you not compare with Mr. Kammenos and the Independent Greeks, who said that Macedonia is one and indeed is Greek? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Today, is your government's majority not based on two who voted 'no' in the Ambassadors' agreement from a nationalistic point of view and were some of them calling for nationalist rallys themselves? So, it is clear that SYRIZA and the government are the synonym of occultism and hypocrisy. You always try to cover out that the "yes" in the Prespecies Agreement, the "yes" in the protocol, coincides with the "no" of the New Democracy, the KINAL and the rest of the parties, because it is precisely because all of them want to assert the presence of NATO, the Americans and the European Union in the region. Your difference between 'yes' and 'no' lies in the silvers of the exchanges rather than in the essence. Together you cultivate the realism of subjection and fatalism, which only hurts the workers, but also the peoples of the region. Our "no" is based on strengthening the anti-capitalist struggle of the working class and our people, the struggle against imperialist plans for popular emancipation, the friendship and solidarity of the peoples.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Rabbit, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u159	We are talking today about the last act of drama, in our view, of the concession of the name of Macedonia. It has started for a year, about a year and a half, all this theatre that exists, the theatre of irrationality, to deliver our homeland. The question we have to do is who could stop this whole procedure parliamentaryly? The SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, don't be fooled, it's the one that brought her this far. As far as the reactions of Panos Kammenos to the last two days are concerned, they are really laughing and crying. He is the one who brought, literally carried SYRIZA's government up here to sell Macedonia. But, in his knowledge, he and all the others who represented the ministers and MPs at the time, supposedly another government that disagreed on the subject of the name of our Macedonia. Is that right? Don't forget it. They brought them all the way here. They could have stopped it, therefore, in the summer of 2018, when they would have voted in favour of the motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy, the only and only time that New Democracy had claimed something, but which knew in advance that it would not be voted on - because it was known - by the Kammenos party. So this motion of censure was to pass. So Panos Kammenos then could have stopped it either by his vote or by saying that he has been leaving the government since then, so that the agreement had not gone ahead. He didn't. Next, the New Democracy could do it as a Civic Opposition. How could he have done it? In certain ways. It did not, of course, dare to bring it to discussion, but the Golden Dawn brought it all to the debate. I'm starting to become specific. When the Golden Dawn, through its Chief of Nicholas Michaloniakos, had said from the very beginning that we are willing to resign from the seats of the Parliament, since the MPs at least of the New Democracy and from there and beyond all the other parties that are supposedly cut off in order not to give the name of our Macedonia. We had said - and now we have again - and we have also given the initiative, if he wanted it, to bring it back to the New Democracy and to say it, and we would follow it, to prove who loves the country and who loves its chair. New Democracy didn't do it. Then, when two weeks ago, we raised the issue of unconstitutionalism and asked for this to be voted on by a hundred and eighty Members and not by a hundred fifty ones and to make it easier for the government. At that time the New Democracy did not want it and, of course, did not get rid of this particular issue. We have come back, therefore, and today, and we have raised a new issue of unconstitutionality and said that we should again, on the basis of another pretext today, on the basis of the law very well, that this agreement should be voted on by a hundred and eighty Members. Once again, the New Democracy did not just discuss it, but Dendia, its Parliamentary Representative, the man of the Rotsilds in Greece - we know it very well - was the one who rejoiced with the MPs of the SYRIZA and the JRC today, and indeed with the SYRIZA's closest, who took the floor, had nothing to answer and said that the proposal of the Golden Dawn was for the garbage. In fact, the one who performed the president’s debts at that time, or rather the one who was carrying out the debts of the President of the Parliament, Christodoulopoulos, said nothing to Kontonis, when he said it was about the trash what the Golden Dawn mentioned. So I also have the right to mention that garbage is Kontonis and his views on this matter. It is rubbish the views of these unwitting people, who, with the signatures of a hundred fifty-one, fifty-two, fifty-three - I do not know how many will be gathered at the end - will once again give the name of Macedonia. But they won't give the soul. So, to the knowledge and answer for everyone here who sell patriotism, selling patriots to ordinary Greek people. So the New Democracy could have stopped this, but it did not. From there on we enter the process of seeing the SYRIZA MPs, their leader and Prime Minister, those who broke their garments against NATO, the Americans, the 'people's killers' and rebelled, now see them saying that this agreement is very useful and that it must be done for the sake of NATO and that the North Atlantic Alliance must therefore take the Skopje instruments to serve its interests. But that's the reality. We ask once again - because we have asked it hundreds of times and we know what interests it will gain or benefit NATO and we know that Skopje will benefit - Greece what is gaining from this case. Somebody tell us two things. One thing Greece wins. There is nothing to gain but the hundred and fifty one, and fifty two or fifty Members - those who are going out - to hold their chair for a few more months, for a few more days, for as long as it is, for a few hours. They sell their souls, they really sell their souls some of them -- don't they? - who said they were patriots, because the majority of SYRIZA MPs and ministers never declared patriots. Now it is clear that people hate everything that has to do with patriotism, with blue-white flag, with orthodoxy. That's what they said. They don't say anything else. But those who went with them now and tell us that for thirty and forty years they've been building a political career that they're patriots what they did? So to sit here ten more days or five more in their chair, they sell our homeland. That's the process. But I told you, in our previous speech, now that especially that photo that came out immediately after the agreement and ratification with a hundred and fifty three MPs two weeks ago, where you all applauded here very happy for this betrayal, it would be coming after you! And you'll remember that photo in five and ten years from now. They'll be the Henrys who will go after you forever. Remember this when you will not be MPs and when you will have to apologize not to the world, but to your children, to your families and to your own consciences. Then apologise there for the punks and joys you did that day. So let's go and see some other things that the Greek people need to know, what Greece delivers and why Greece delivers them. So let's go see when this Macedonian minority was created, because we don't understand. We don't know. So let's start and say: After the Iliden massacres that took place in 1904 there was a census in Macedonia from Chile Pasha, to see what it is in that area, because you know that these areas surely "bought" always, with many populations being involved. Therefore, the 1904 census of Hilmi Pasa had been made at the Dolianic Monastery and Thessaloniki. So despite the persecution suffered by the Greeks, the numbers were vague. They showed that six hundred thirty - four thousand five hundred were Greeks and three hundred eighty - five thousand three hundred twenty - nine were Bulgarians. No Macedonians. There were no Macedonians. But the Macedonians were one and the same with the Greeks. Is that the Macedonians? Was that the Greeks? Of course it was the same thing. That's what this census shows. Then we go to 1926, there's a new census from the League of Nations and it pulls out the following numbers for our Macedonia: A million three hundred forty thousand are Greeks, about two thousand are Muslims, about seventy thousand are Bulgarians. Where are the Macedonians? In 1904 and 1926 these. In the ballot of unusables from the Greek Government and from the Greek state for all these years. Let's move on. On 26-12-1944 the then Foreign Minister of the United States of America's Roosevelt Government, Edward Stetinius, publishes a circular according to which he states: "This government - the Roosevelt Government - means that any reference to a Macedonian nation, Macedonian patronage land or Macedonian national conscience is unjustified and demagogic. It does not represent national or political reality, while it sees in its present revival potential threats to aggressive actions against Greece.’ That's what the Americans say in 1944. In 1906 and 1924 there is nowhere a Macedonian minority. In 1944, we were confirmed by the Americans. How did you lose all this over seventy-four years in Greece? And since you all say that you are a constitutional arch and that the state has continued, of course, and your corrupt state has continued throughout this entire depth of the years and we are glad that we are the only ones who are against this ridiculous and disgusting constitutional arch. We're the only ones who stand toward you, who don't say any more now, and then we go down and enjoy ourselves with you and ask for favors or anything else. We are here in front of you, representing only the Greek people. So you succeeded with all that I read to you, and you are giving the name of our Macedonia right now. And we are going to the last stage of the drama which took place in 1991-1993. On 22 January 1992 a recommendation is made to the European Council meeting in Gimaras, Portugal, to examine the Skopje application, whether they should be recognised as an independent nation under the name of the Republic of Macedonia. The application was rejected unanimously because the name on which Skopje applied for recognition contained the name Macedonia. All this has been done over a period of time starting in 1904, which I read to you, with the first census and continues in 1944 and 1992. All these elements are in favour of Greece. All this shows that these Macedonians who are there and I do not know how otherwise they may be said - aliens may be called aliens, but not Macedonians - have no right to this issue. And who comes and vindicates them? The Greek government is coming and giving them the right to do so. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How is that possible? On 7 April 1993 it began with the agreement of the then Prime Minister of Greece, Mitsotakis, who said that with Gligorov, they agreed to recognise this state under the name of "former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia". The New Democracy, which now says 'we do not agree with anything'. I said earlier in my speech in what ways it could have stopped what is happening. But do you know what's a matter? And I'm talking about the world that listens to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u160	And that's what you're closing up with, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u161	As a parliamentary representative, I ask you to give me two more minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u162	No, I've already given you one and a half. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u163	This procedure has to do with this. So you can move and do these things at the expense of our country. That's the process, that's the things we told you, that's the way it is. And from there on, it is really embarrassing for the Greek Prime Minister to go and comment negatively on the majority of Greek citizens in meetings with various European leaders, to say that they are defenceless, extreme, fascist and anything else, when he trespasses the Constitution of our country, when he does not take account of 75% -80% of the majority of the Greek people, who does not want this name and when he dares to vote. Well, Contonis and Tsipras and their company are going to the trash. Greece will remain alive, we will fight and even if this disgraceful agreement passes today, there are ways to burn it. And if once the Golden Dawn is allowed, be sure that the Greek people will all go to the heart of the unusable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Dannelis has the floor. Here comes Mrs Maria Triantafel. Mr. Zouraris will be here shortly later, I won't give him a speech. So I'm going to address Mr. Kotzia who's in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u165	That's not how it works!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u166	Why doesn't it go like that? Mr. Zuraris called us. You're right after Mr. Zurari, Mr. Kotzia. Otherwise, I'm not putting you in his place. You're next. Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement, we have closed a thirty-year national stain. We have now put our two countries' bilateral relations on a new basis, and we have upgraded our country's role in the Balkans, in the European Union and in the world as a whole. The conclusion of the agreement, as well as its ratification, was warmly welcomed by our partners in the European Union and NATO, the whole of the Western world, in which, if I am not mistaken, we belong as a country, according to the great majority of the Greek people and all the parties of the constitutional arch other than the Communist Party. The next step is the adoption of the accession protocol for Northern Macedonia to NATO. Here, ladies and gentlemen, while the Radical Left is aware of and works towards upgrading the geostrategic role of our country, accompanied by an increase in its international prestige and influence, systemic opposition, New Democracy and PASOK, are removed from their historical stables. These are the points of the time. Unorthodoxism is thwarting overthrowing fundamentally stable. Historically, both parties have been associated with the country's western choices: the conservative party of our NATO membership in 1952, and later the emphatic "we belonged to the West", and the PASOK since its adulthood, when the slogan "EEC and NATO", was definitively abandoned. Who, however, has bothered and strongly opposed the Prussians' and its successors' agreement? Firstly, Erdogan and Turkey, in which with criminal abstraction in 1991-1992 we gave the role of the country's protector without a name. We have thus allowed them to perpetuate in all fields and take a role in FYROM, but also in all the Balkans. Second, Putin and Russia. Russia's anguish is known to maintain its traditional influence in the Western Balkans, especially when the Eastern Balkans with their membership of the European Union and NATO were definitively removed from it. If the removal of North Macedonia as well is finalised, Russia's sphere of influence is now limited to Serbia, making it even more precarious. Thirdly, VMRO's nationalists, who strangely put forward and put forward the same argument as our own opposition to the Embassy Agreement. And it is not enough to lose the exclusive use of the term Macedonia, Vuphala and Alexander the Great, but they suddenly realize that one of the first side of the agreement is the recognition of the Albanian language as an equal, official language, underlining the multi-ethnic nature of the country, which we refer to as coronary. In relation to NATO, in Greece for years we have been living through the illusion of a great success, namely that by the 1995 Interim Agreement we imposed the provisional term "FYROM" instead of the constitutional name "Democracy of Macedonia" for international organisations, because in any case, in the case of bilateral relations almost all of the world, it had recognized them as "Democracy of Macedonia". However, we have escaped two resounding realities. First, that FYROM's famous 'M' means the acceptance of the term 'Macedonia' in the name of the neighbour by overthrowing the cushionist and deadlocked - as it is, of course, a perimeter - national line of '92 'N either its name or its derivative'. And secondly, that Turkey from the window also ensures the reference of NATO's "Macedonia's Republic". I present in Minutes a random document from the NATO parliamentary assembly, which seems to indicate that whenever FYROM refers to the alliance documents, an asterisk refers to the bottom of the page, which reads "Turkey recognises the Republic of Macedonia under its constitutional name". So the triumph of ostrichism over the years. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the inclusion of our fragile multi-ethnic neighbour tomorrow in NATO and pro-actively in the European Union, removes their destabilisation factors. It is obvious that in future we will not be adjacent to a large Albania and a large Bulgaria will not let us sleep more calmly than we are now sleeping. This is for those who fear the perverts and the sights of third parties. Furthermore, it creates conditions for growth and prosperity for them and us. Our national blindness has not allowed us to see the reality that goes around us. It does not allow us to understand the benefits we would have as the only country that had never had any territorial advisor to all the other countries. The 1992 national crime which cost us, ladies and gentlemen of the Officership and Minor Response - with the exception of colleagues from the Potami and Mr Theocharopoulos - to repeat it today. In the name of temporary, micro-group and staff benefit, deny basic strategic choices of the West that defend our national interest. In the altar of the unscrupulous opposition you do not hesitate, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, in a way that is irresponsible to speak until and - look - for 'neutralisation' of northern Greece. Do you know what that means? Do you see separators in northern Greece? And to end, responsible foreign policy does not do with spotlight grenades, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from Krokos Kozanis High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with our colleague from SYRIZA, Mr Maria Triantafyllou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday in committee and today we are discussing the NATO accession protocol for the country, Northern Macedonia now. So there are two points that we need to see. Firstly, a large part of the Opposition - the largest - is voting against, because the agreement is bad, but it says 'yes' to NATO. Secondly, it also votes against the Communist Party of Greece, because NATO is what it is, an imperialist mechanism. There is an overall valuation for both the agreement again and for the government's foreign policy from Opposition in general. I was surprised that Mr Koumoutsakos started putting him as a start not only of the problem but also of the Greek interventions in 2008. And I don't think that's what happened. It was indeed the most well organized effort until then on the Greek side. I think, however, that the opposition is following the fixed line of the fait accompli of the fait accompli, and that is why the problem of overlapping and hypocrisy arises. Because you are unquestionably having difficulty with the historical and political truth, especially if it comes from your own lips. And I am talking about the former Prime Minister, Constantine Mitsotakis, who has said - and I repeat it - that the New Democracy Government, of course, did not want Yugoslavia to be dismantled, but it was impossible to prevent it. It was impossible to prevent the independence of Slovenia and Croatia. And he has said in the most emphatic way that at that time it was the most appropriate time for Greece to achieve a full solution to the issue. He has repeatedly said and stressed that he had given specific instructions to the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Antonis Samaras, for insistence on non-dissolution. And if this were not possible, he had been specifically instructed to target for full success with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Of course, Constantine Mitsotakis has mentioned here the Stepma that the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Antonis Samaras, agreed to enter the text of the Foreign Ministers in the Council of Europe netos the name "Macedonia". Constantine Mitsotakis himself has been talking about hypocrisy since then. And if you follow his speech, he speaks of the country's fallen prestige since then for very important economic problems. He said then that Europe, as things came, would not support us. He said then it was a populism of the worst kind of veto. In fact, I'll remind you that we're carrying a conviction for something we didn't do, for a veto we didn't put on. And said Constantine Mitsotakis that since they changed the data, that is to say since that country went to the United Nations, despite the effort made by his government to keep - and indeed - national consensus, they changed all the data and all that was from there and then - and I continue from what Constantine Mitsotakis has stopped - it was that the country should build data and acquired data. Constantine Mitsotakis himself had mentioned from this here the Stepma that the star of Vergina was added after "Pineiro Pacettos". And he also gave something more important to us today: what exactly do we want from this country? Do we want to destabilise or disintegrate it? There has also been a series of statements by PASOK Ministers since then, at that time, who said that the name had been lost. And I really wonder. Do you think that we could never, as a country, grant the name 'Macedonia', that there should not be a complex geographical definition in that country, which is in fact after the 2008 negotiations, when you have been dealing with that name so many years, when you sign agreements with that name and when you did not claim its removal at the decisive moment, namely when Yugoslavia was dismantled? What were these years being built, ladies and gentlemen, with your tolerance and your inability to give a solution? And you are now talking about citizenship, ethnicity, people, etc. It's all answered. You guys are the same. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little tolerance, Mr. President. For a century they have called themselves that. Over seventy years they are formed in a political entity in different forms. Of course we don't give that name. We are not now giving the name 'Macedonia'. The name was there. And when Yugoslavia collapsed, it took off the "socialist" and left the "Democracy of Macedonia". Watch out, you're talking about identity. What's an ID? Identity is experiences, it's language, it's childhood. You think we can tear them out overnight? Finally, there are other accomplished by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. I mentioned it yesterday in committee: Berne, 1976. Both sides commit that they will not proceed to other investigations in the Aegean Sea. Madrid: There is talk of legitimate vital rights in the Aegean. Not to mention what happened in Imia. Not to mention casus belli. You're asking why we didn't claim any more. Did you claim? The Foreign Minister, Mr Katrugalos, told you yesterday about Albania. Do you remember what happened with Albania? He joined NATO and then, with the 'good morning', he raised the issue of Chamuras. And the then Prime Minister of Albania, Berisha, asked for historians - I read exactly - Albanian territories to Preveza. What are you telling us? I conclude with something important: SYRIZA and NATO. Can the Left become a praiser of NATO, imperialism? Oh, no. Is it SYRIZA's job to facilitate NATO's enlargement to the Western Balkans? Look, SYRIZA's government responsibility concerns all over the country, not just the Left, not just how we feel as the Left. And for the government of SYRIZA there is no time for timeless choices. And we will not allow defeats to be suffered on critical fronts that geopolitical reality has left us. And there are new data in the Balkans as well. It needs to be stabilised desperately. There are new data, the emergence of geothermal energy in a new factor in the marine space.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u170	Complete, Mrs. Triantafel.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u171	I shall conclude, Mr President. We must build common interests with countries and international organisations. We must show allied shapes in north and south. Greece is on its way with a plan, credibility and dignity. Be careful, we are not in favour of revolutionary phrases that are unable to become a revolutionary act.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Zuraris is on his way because of his accident. Mr. Kotzia, since Mr. Mavrotas is here, would you like me to give him his place and follow? I ask you why I have spoken to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u173	I would like to thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u174	Good. Here, Mr. Blacks, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Kotzia for the concession. One of the reasons why we supported this agreement two weeks ago is the accession of the neighbouring country to the Euro-Atlantic institutions, so that we operate together in a common framework, stabilised and disfellowshipped from the influence of third countries. Today we are in the final step of a long and difficult process. After the NATO accession protocol has been ratified, it will enter into force and its implementation will begin. "North Macedonia" will replace the "Macedonia". So it will break the monopoly of the name that the neighbors had conquered because of our own mistakes. Historical counterfeiting is leaving and Macedonia is restored to us as the historic cradle that has given the global glamor to the term. Once it does not begin to appear that the dangers were indestructible and the fears that we will be swallowed were unscrupulous, they will all understand that the agreement is not plucking out, but in fact something de facto had been lost over the past twenty-five years. What's that? It is the brand of Macedonia for our country in the international environment. And because I have heard the last word'suppression','suppression', let me also remind you of the words 'hypocrisy','structuralism'. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the process of the Presidencies Agreement, each should consider its responsibilities. And SYRIZA, who tried to succeed with "a fortress of two birds" by putting the agreement on the micropolitical game to plunge the New Democracy, but also the New Democracy, which returned to the barren "Macedonia is one and it is Greek" and is obviously removed for electoral reasons from where he left it in 2008 under the composite name Erga omnes. The hard right won the New Democracy's liberal component according to the state, creating at least awkwardness in the latter. Corresponding to KINAL, the patriotic PASOK prevailed against the state of the modernist who, with a few exceptions, fell silent in the name of unity. Potami has paid for its consistency and courage with the dissolution of the Group's parliamentary group. He did not make a convenient change from his positions when his time came for this. We were willing not to support the government, as the militant journalists said a week after the vote of confidence that we voted against the government, but willing to put what we consider to be national benefits above our political survival. So we saved the honor and reputation of the progressive liberal center and all those centralists, central leftists, the centrerights of society that were positive towards the agreement and negative towards the SYRIZA mandate. On the basis of a recent survey on Monday in the newspapers, the rate of acceptance of the agreement was 10% in the centre right, 20% in the centre and 50% in the centre-left on the basis of their political self-determination. It would be a pity and unfair thing for the pro-European, liberal, progressive public in such a historic hub vote that SYRIZA was registered exclusively as the only responsible rationalist European voice. Potami lost three MPs, but won its place in history because at the critical moment it raised the spiral towards the side of European and not Balkan Greece. Let me go back to the Euro-Atlantic institutions. History has shown that when we're out of international alliances we're vulnerable. We saw this in the 20th century, the First Balkan War, the Second Balkan War, the First and Second World War. We were winners because we chose the right side of history. On the contrary, the 1922 and 1974 disasters came because we were isolated. Our basic doctrine is that 'we belonged to the west' cannot be 'a la carte'. If we do consider that 'EEC and NATO the same union', because no one else understands our sensitivities, let us open the door. We tried it in 2015. I imagine you remember the results. We believe that Greece's presence in the Euro-Atlantic institutions is clearly in the national interest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. But we are not reassured. A country's power is determined by its geopolitical position, its deterrent capacity, its alliances and its economy. So there is a lot to be done, especially the latter. And I fear that we have not realised that the real independence of a country passes through its economy. The realistic patriotic, if you wish, is to shield the economy, to become the Balkans a field of economic cooperation and not a mutual suspicion. This will give those development opportunities that our country and especially our Macedonia need. The Prespecies Agreement is therefore not an end, but a starting point. It is up to us to maximize opportunities and minimise threats or vice versa. The race now begins and we need to see it with the national self-confidence and the extroversion that causes Hellenism to grow, not with the insecurity and misery that constantly shortens us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Black. Mr. Kotzias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u177	Here we are dealing with a Civic Opposition that is a fan of inertia. She likes to accumulate problems. Indeed, it says: 'Do not concern yourself with foreign policy issues such as northern Macedonia and recently Turkey, because we should come and solve them'. And the question arises: Forty years why did they not solve them? Did they have to see us to start thinking? But that's not their problem. The problem with Officer Opposition is that it's terrific. She fears, in the face of any agreement, in every undertaking, in every conversation of defeat, she sees disasters, does not see the possibility of creation, because that is her experience. I have to say that the Civic Opposition is a little confusing in the neighborhood with the neighbourhood of the states. Because he thinks that when we have differences or are into a fight or do not like a neighbour's face, we should not talk to him, we should not make agreements or international or transnational agreements. Why? Because they learned that when they fight with the neighbor, we don't talk to him, we hold his face, we don't salute him, and we keep on with our lives. But it's not like that. In transnational relations - and that is why there is the science of international relations - the rules apply that I discuss with the one I have a problem, not the one I do not have, I seek agreement to solve problems with the one I have. I have also heard this astonishing about the European Union. I saw the President of the New Democracy last time hitting his fist and saying "I will veto it", as if anyone forbid it, as if we were not the ones in the negotiation that we would veto it. And I hear a comment about the transitional years of application in internal documents, which do not have an external use, in northern Macedonia, namely documents such as the school degree, that has an external use, not for medical documents, but for talks between their ministries. I heard there's a lot of them these years. What do they call that? Did they study? I'll tell you what I did because I'm melted in this story. I have taken all the international agreements on this, from the splitting up of South Sudan and the withdrawal of East Timor from Indonesia until Germany is unified. For example, what is envisaged in the six hundred or two pages of the German unification agreement? Four years a language, German, has no two languages. Transitional period of four years. Why? Because even this powerful German state was unable to assimilate all documents in less than four years. Why four years? Because that was so much the power of the passports in East Germany. Because abroad how will they change it if they don't finish? How many years have we given? Five in correspondence to how long their documents are valid. What else did the Germans give the East Germans who were also class, social enemies, etc.Huh? Large transitional periods beyond these documents that would be for four years. What's so strange about you? When I hear you, I understand. You do not read, study and tell the Greek people what would suit me. And I would have been at the forefront of you agreeing a long time ago in this story. And the country would take care of it. For the European Union, we say that every chapter will be in control. What does it mean to check? That if they don't respond to what the deal says, he's got veto. Do we need to grow in here that "I will use veto"? If it hadn't been for the deal, it couldn't have been done and Mr. Khan couldn't have been expected to get in. We are told 'no, we used the veto', the terrible veto, the veto of Bucharest. I hear it all the time. Well, do you want to make the minutes public? There's no veto in Bucharest. It was seventeen to four, and it seems to me it was Slovenia, only one veto came on the other side and they did a very good job to get there. However, I would like to ask: I have heard a colleague say that we have taken our conscience to sleep immediately after Bucharest. I wish they had, because before they went to bed, they stumbled that they had vetoed. And we were convicted by the International Court of The Hague because they didn't go to sleep, but they wanted to make statements about things they didn't do. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] And everyone forgets in this country that when we became government and opened the negotiation, we found the condemnation of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which should not condemn us twice and condemned us for the nonexistent, not the existent ones we used. By the way, I have put two dozen vetos in the European Union from issues of international law to agricultural products and from the issue of China to the issue of Egypt. You New Democracy never vetoed. We put the veto on, and I don't even think they know it. For me personally for the veto I have denounced me by WALL STREET JOURNAL and NEW YORK TIMES with the headline articles. They don't even read the international press? And we'll talk about veto. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have to stress this. In Cyprus we were accused of being too hard, we say - the extreme right - of delivering it all. What really happened? We put on the table, using a series of vetos, a subject that everyone else ate, the guarantees and the occupation of Turkish troops. And we are very proud that with these vetos and the Cyprus negotiation for the first time we added positive for Cyprus and Greece to the theme. I heard something else unprecedented about international relations. They say: when you made the deal with northern Macedonia, did you make them a matter of committing foreign policy to them? In the first semester, these gentlemen wouldn't have gone to college. But I have one question: When they put Romania and Croatia to NATO, did they make such conditions for them? When Albania was unconditionally placed in NATO and recognised as a candidate country, did they set terms for the Greek minority, the indigenous minority? And when they put Bulgaria - and they did well - in NATO and accepted it as a candidate and then put it in the European Union, they asked it to be very simple, which is not transnational - what we have been asking for these years and will be able to do so - to return the utensils to the sanctuary and manuscripts from the Greek monasteries, which were illegally stolen by Bulgarian fascism? I think, to finish, people don't understand and they don't want to understand. They can't and we can't make them capable of it. They don't want to be in trouble. They do not deserve to be involved in foreign policy matters as a government. The country is pleased with this government, with its foreign policy, and the country is pleased that those who do not want, do not understand and cannot, are in Anti-Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u178	Take a walk to Macedonia!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u179	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has the floor. After Mr Loverdos three other speakers will follow, which will complete the list. Immediately after that, the parliamentary representatives, Mr Pafilis, Mr Georgiadis, who have told us that they will speak and lack three other parliamentarians, who will obviously tell us when they will speak. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Three things I want to say, unilaterally, about what Mr Kotzias said towards the end. He's right that in Bucharest the then government did not testify veto.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u181	That's a mistake, Mr. Loverdo. How to do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u182	It is quite wrong to say it, but it has kept the stance it has taken, which has been fully supported by statements from Papandreou, Pangalou and mine. I was a shadow Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time. The debate on veto created impressions incorrectly, with errors of some, and the International Court of The Hague never condemned Greece. Mr Kotzias said two right things and one mistake, because we discussed this in detail. That 2011 decision was clear. The word 'convict' exists nowhere, not even requested by the Gruevski Government in the years to come. In 2012, in 2013, 2014, in 2015, in 2016 Greece followed the same policy, NATO accepted the same policy and no one of course invoked The Hague to block the North Atlantic Alliance from insistence on its stance based on the decisions of Bucharest. That's the truth, and we've discussed it. Now I'm addressing my friend, Mr. Mavrota. Maybe he doesn't know very well. As far as PASOK is concerned, the two who supported the attitude of the Democratic Integration and the Permanent Commission and the Plenary Assembly when we ratified the Prespecies Agreement, Mr Scandalidis and I, the very same that we are here today as rapporteur and Parliamentary representative respectively to support our refusal to ratify the Accession Protocol, we then supported Costas Simitis, the modernist PASOK, and we were his ministers. So let us learn that a little better when it comes to us. Thirdly and finally, before I come to our subject today. Minister, we consider the provocation on the part of Turkish President Erdogan of the eight Turkish officers who were not issued by the Hellenic Republic to Turkey to be absolutely dangerous, and Greece provides them with asylum. The proclamation of these large sums is an invitation to organized crime and it is not enough to oppose this river and it is not enough to oppose this fact with arguments of the style that "there is a decision of Greek justice, which is independent and which it decides", but it is a move from Turkey - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in fact - particularly dangerous and hostile in relation to our homeland. Now, before I draw up any argument, I must say right from the outset, expressly and unequivocally to the National Representation and, of course, to the people who are listening to us, that the Democratic Reconciliation does not give a positive vote on the ratification of FYROM's accession protocol to NATO. The first thing we need to do, obviously, because events and political attitudes must and must have a logical follow-up, is that our refusal to say 'yes' to ratification of the Ambassadors' agreement leads mathematically and definitely to our refusal to say 'yes' and to the protocol of accession. It is a derivative of the Agreement and as such we manage it parliamentaryally. Secondly, regarding the whole matter, I remember very negatively the then Minister of Foreign Affairs and friend, Nikos Kotzias, in the autumn of 2017, saying that we can agree with FYROM and we will solve problems that others have created. This has made me ill because all Greek politicians appear to be such as to deal with the problems that their country has. What should we and our predecessors say about the Cypriot and Greek Turkish and Turkey? Be merciful of our ancestors? And it is not proof - it is not Mr Kotzias, why is it not that he lacked knowledge - for those who have supported this ignorance version of the historical depth of the problem that comes from at least the end of the nineteenth century? When you're a politician, you're a politician to get your backs on the problems your country has and not to get into the political track with the problems to create problems for your opponents. This approach, as has been rightly said, is one of the causes of the popular reactions that have occurred. It's one of the causes, not the cause. I wanted - the former Minister is here, I appealed to Mr Katrugalo yesterday to the Standing Committee - to beg for something. Because in this Chamber, by Mrs. Gennimata and Mr. Venizelos, "the version of the acceptance by Greece of the name "Macedonia of Iliden", we would like to know in the communications you had with political forces leaders in Greece who said "yes". Who encouraged you to bring to the limits of the National Delegation the name 'Iliden Macedonia'? After going back to the past and reaching the nineteenth and early 20th century, I am legitimate to ask, so that we all know which political leader, who political leader, the political leader, who contacted you, told you "yes, we would have no objection, perhaps proceed to "Iliden's Macedonia". Let's go a little bit further. I would like to refer to the majority spokesman - because SYRIZA is both today - and Mr Toska is kind, and I would like to say that it is a bit difficult to combine the old anti-Natural slogans of space into at least one political speech - and when I talk about old, I mean for 2014, 2015 - with this agreement. The Western Balkans' path towards Euro-Atlantic institutions is a long political one. It had a more important moment, the summit in Halkidiki in 2003 and was followed by our country consistently, with FYROM's issues, because there was the problem of the name. This course, the Euro-Atlantic, was based on...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u183	European.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u184	European and Atlantic, Euro-Atlantic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u185	2003 was European.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u186	That was the summit, of course. However, they are binding on political perspectives. It was, therefore, consciously conscientious to remove the Russians, to remove the influence of the Russians from the region. Clearly and explicitly. And the framework was the European Union and NATO. There's no more. These are the key tools. We are making this acceptable and then today. You cannot, Mr Toska, in the same speech today, say on the one hand a policy in this direction and on the other hand an anti-imperialist policy. It's not working, it can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u187	Did you see that in my speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u188	It can't be, dear colleague, really. Decide, which of the two and make it clear, because your ideological political breakdown causes positions that contain contradictory thoughts, contradictory terms and contradictory suggestions. And you need to see it. I think, therefore, that anyone who knows the anatomy of the 20th-century conflicts in Europe - and on the planet in general - who understands the dangers they pose and of whom we must be protected, understands very well what the defence community means, what NATO means, what its enlargement means and why Greece must support it. We believe that these institutions are pretexts with their evils and goods. Especially in relation to NATO, our criticisms were many and justified, but this is another thing for the Chief of Police Response - both in two months' time - that NATO was overrun and that we need to find other formations - those in September 2014 - to fill the gap that will be left with its abolition, because that is where we have to go. That is what he said and I am referring to your Chief - the Chief of Majority - so as not to mention other members of his staff present today who make much heavier political speech. So, as a result of an agreement, the Prespecies Agreement, we are also dominating today and with a people divided. In fact, the term'split' is not right. A portion of the people with their overwhelming majority, 70%, with 20% saying 'yes' and 10% saying 'I don't know', that's the situation. You shouldn't have gone there. In 2008 - I want Mr Kumucasakos to listen to me and to confirm or refuse, if I do not say correctly - Mr Papandreou, Mr Pangalos and I supported Bucharest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u189	I always hear you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u190	And protests didn't exist. Why wasn't there such tensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u191	Because they've been informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u192	Because the political system had information inside it. Three of the four parties of the House of Parliament at that time - four or five, how many were they? - they were in line with the national strategy. Therefore, there was a feeling to the people that he was touching well, since the vast majority are thinking in the same way or in a close manner. That was not now, for reasons I said before, and made me an alpine impression - and to all of us it made - this phrase by the Prime Minister, which was heard by the media in Nicosia that the protesters were about seventy thousand extremes. That is unacceptable. It can be a derivative of a political trend that there is SYRIZA and the Circular Right. Alas, if our country had 70%, 80% extreme right! Woe in our country! But this is how Mr. Tsipras baptizes the Greek people and his parties. Fixed nerve by this political man! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I'm closing. There is the period to the Prespes - 18 June - and the period after the signature. The period after signature, Mr President, is my last argument. Does it make a promise to respect even this Prespecies Agreement on the part of Mr Zaev and FYROM? On the contrary. Even insinuations about minorities in Greece were, expressed by this man, forced to reconstruct...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, I would like to speak personally. He's talking to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u194	Don't do what you don't listen and don't get irritated! Indignation of facts does not work!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u195	Please, be quiet! Mr. Loverdo, you're shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u196	The facts speak for themselves and they don't need us. She was forced to take it back, but she said it. And instead of giving promise of good keeping, he gave a promise to undermine the agreement he himself signed. I was uncovered - deta skate - working this way on the other side, and I think we are at the start of events. My last argument - and I am closing with it - is that when the French Minister for Foreign Affairs congratulates Greeks and Macedonians on the Prespecies Agreement, who can say that it is incorrectly expressed? Leave the debate on nationality and citizenship. That's what we've been talking about. After all, when Europe's leaders addressing the people are referring to the Macedonian people - which Article 49 of their constitution, twice as much as it was before it was revised, it refers to their people - when they talk about Greeks and Macedonians, what are we to say to them and to the majority? I wonder what you will call the people of this country in politically speaking? Your Prime Minister did not want them to be called Skopje, residents of FYROM, Macedonians, as he said. He wanted you to tell them how?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u197	Northmacedones!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u198	You don't tell them that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u200	Because the agreement you signed, Mr Papadopoulos, says "Macedonians/..."? What are you going to say, "Macedonna, perpendicular (/), and the rest"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u201	You're jumping logically!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u202	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Loverdo, please, you're finishing up. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u204	So you must be critical and think - I come from the Step - Mr. former Minister, because in this Chamber we are many days discussing your derivative, your political child, if this is Europe-wide and internationally speaking, what will be tomorrow? And you need to tell the majority members what the concessions you made to reach a compromise were. Because without being here in the Chamber, all the SYRIZA colleagues accept no retreat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Loverdo, please, you've been talking for 15 minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I come from Step one. Everyone says that the final product, the Prespecies Agreement, includes a retreat of Greece in relation to the complex name, but no other retreat, retreat of Skopje in relation to the complex name, but no other. There are no retreats on the part of the country? You said they existed. So tell your colleagues what they are so that they do not tell the House their length and short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u207	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being held from the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House organizes and operates, twenty-four students from the University of Utrecht. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u209	Mr Kumucako, you have asked for the floor for a minute. Please respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u210	I'll respect him, Mr. President. I want to say something quite clearly. Besides, things are clear. Once again, the Bucharest theme. They are being persecuted by an inferiority complex against the top moment of Greek diplomacy. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So, listen, how did all those attackers in Bucharest explain and try to reduce it that the allies - all all the allies - with the United States first wanted the former Yugoslav Republic to join NATO and finally did not? How did that really happen? Survival? They suddenly decided to be good people and they gave it to us? How did the Greek position become Atlantic? Obviously, this was because a strong diplomacy was previously exercised and mainly with a reliable threat to the use of the veto. And here those who don't understand that obviously not even for candidate experts do. And one more thing comes up: Was there a conviction from The Hague Court? No, the court finds that there has been a violation of the treaty. And if this has produced results, how has NATO and the European Union continued for ten years to repeat the very same decision, that if there is no solution, there will be no accession? So these simple things must be rethinked by those who say what they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u211	On personal grounds, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u212	To end with this: Yes, Mr. Loverdos, there was indeed a national...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Kumucaco, don't refer to faces. I want to make that clarification myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u214	He asked me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u215	No, he didn't ask you himself. Another made the intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u216	Leave me a minute. Mr. Loverdos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u217	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Loverdo, you asked me if there was a national consensus at the time. Yes, there was, because then the political forces of the country were being informed every week. We - and you know it well - did not believe that we would control the country's political forces by resorting to miserable practice to think that we are threatening them by using secret documents from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's the truth. That's why we went with national unity to Bucharest and that's why the country went to a top diplomatic victory at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Kotzia, what does the staff make up?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u221	It is to me, Mr President. Mr. Kumoucascus answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u222	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure you must give the explanation and, of course, from there on, the Bureau, if it decides, will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u223	I'm the one I talked about in Bucharest, and he said,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u224	But you didn't just mention it. Others reported. Either way, here you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u225	I said there was a good diplomatic preparation for Bucharest. No ‘beto’ has been placed. Mr Kumucakou tell us: did the NATO summit meeting in Bucharest "veto" or not? Or did we go for free to The Hague? And these legal tricks that he found out that we broke the deal, but he didn't condemn us to say it internally to those who don't support Bucharest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u226	Good. The explanations were given. Mr Cavalellas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Your Honor. As hideous days, then, yesterday and today will remain in history. And thankfully, the Left came along with the Memorandum "shadowed" and NATO. It's over! I would not like to be in your place either of the normals or of the rest of the people who say 'willing' to them, because you did not have the floor, nor did you have the right to negotiate either a profit or no obligation. And you did this arbitrarily, without the consent of the people, without debate with the other political leaders as you were under an obligation. However, if we had a profit, the Greek does not negotiate his pride. You were, of course, accused of some 'blacks'. I mean, I don't adopt this. Of course this may be a cause of nullity at some point. You have taken sympathy on the back from our European partners. Our so-called allies are far from the time when we can proudly say that we are sympathetic to the defence of freedoms. It gradually begins within me to disperse this image of the West and the democraticity that governs its modern history from the French Revolution to this day. Of course, you have succeeded in making us skeptical against the West and our American allies. You have ruined the beautiful picture and the price today is to dismiss the strongest paper, the lever of pressure on the ideals and thoughts of the wretchers now of our history and our culture. They'll say they're Macedonians with the booze. Of course they do not even know the etymology of the word 'Macedonia'. The "North" forget it, on the one hand, because it's the worst, the repressive one because it symbolizes that there is a state - take note of this because it's the most important one - under the name of "North Macedonia" and under the name of an area of another called "South Macedonia". This alone is very dangerous, because it seems that this state is divided and the neighbouring state, Greece, owns part. That's what it looks like today. Like Cyprus, where the north is occupied, it's divided, it's split. So it is some time - it will be years and centuries - that there will be plans to unite the divided Macedonia, that is to say, to unite a state that is, of course, going to the sea. Greece will arrive to Larissa, because I speak left-wing and incomplete Officerial Response this interference will divide Greece into two, isolates Thrace, resulting in its absorption from Turkey. And as we speak of Turkey, God will preserve us from the negotiation of Mr Tsipras with Turkey! He went there unprepared without convening the Civil Heads Council again. The Greek people are also boiling. He did not give such a mandate to the "willing men", who approached and supplemented the hundred and forty-five Members of your government and who for unknown reasons serve as fathers and support the broken bones of this crippled government. I'll say a few things about the New Democracy. A complex name was requested by the New Democracy and accepts it even today. Mr. Mitsotakis said, "Don't go" and in his speeches he doesn't talk about the name at all, speaks of identity and language. But I wonder what it will be called, what will the identity of the person who lives in Macedonia indicate? Macedon won't write? What does the language say will the one who lives in Macedonia speak? He'll talk to the Macedonian. The language and identity come when we give the name. We, the Central Association, now come stronger to the new Parliament, which will emerge after 26 May - and mark the date, I dare to make a provision - will strongly claim a referendum to speak to the Greek people at last, the referendum that the Skopje have held, the referendum that you fear and trembling, because Greece is boiling from extreme to extremities, of course, apart from the region of Exarches, Kuumundouros and some groups, such as Ruviks and other leftists who find them all well. We shall of course vote against.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u228	Mr Lazarides, an independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Loverdos reminded us earlier that the name 'Iliden Macedonia' entered the table. I'm sorry, but it turns out to be moving between tragedy and drama. However, national interests had left them far behind. Ladies and gentlemen, many things have been said here once again. Some have tried to alter events historically, but within this effort they have brought us here as real facts that do not exist. A number of SYRIZA colleagues mentioned the late Constantine Mitsotakis. I would like to remind you here, ladies and gentlemen, that we need only see the explanatory statement of this agreement that we discussed last week. What does the explanatory statement say? "In 1991 the northern neighbouring country declared its independence from the former Yugoslavia, which was part of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia" and which, thanks to the strong resistance of the then government - the government at that time was the Government of Constantine Mitsotakis of New Democracy - was prevented precisely this and did not give the name of Macedonia to Skopje. That is what the explanatory statement refers to. Then, in 1991, the Government of Constantine Mitsotakis again succeeded in doing something else and came out on 16 December 1991 by the extraordinary ministerial meeting on European political cooperation and said: 'The Community and its Member States also demand that the former Yugoslav Republic be bound before its recognition to establish constitutional and political guarantees ensuring that it does not have territorial claims in a neighbouring State of the Community and that it does not carry out hostile propaganda activities vis-à-vis neighbouring states' - see now - 'including the use of a name involving territorial claims'. This was done by the then government of the late Constantine Mitsotakis, who tried by some colleagues here by SYRIZA to paraphrase or, if you like, to falsify the facts of that period. Note: Here it says: "Including using a name involving territorial claims". This point needs attention, because it is the result of the historical conflict between France and Great Britain. When Great Britain asked to enter the EEC at that time, France and de Gaulle claimed that the name should be changed, that no, it cannot enter as Great Britain because of Brittany in France because, while maintaining the name 'Green Britain', there is a question of totalitarianism. In fact, he was forced and made three applications then, the United Kingdom and the third time, where he now made the application known as the United Kingdom, was accepted. You see, France then succeeded and convinced this great country, Great Britain, to change the name. You are so capable of not getting Skopje to change that claim. With today's process, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy is over. This unacceptable decision gives you the keys. Because if there were any means by which we could force them, we could convince them to actually keep what we said before and not claim to use the term 'Macedonia', it was precisely their integration into all these agencies, whether we are talking about NATO, whether we are talking about the European Union, or the United Nations. You, with this arrangement, handed them all over. Unfortunately, what I would like to say to you, by continuing, is that they also gave you the footprints in order to ask you to cancel this agreement and expose them. Because they violated the agreement in many respects. First of all, they did a referendum. In this referendum, the question they raised was: "Are you in favour of joining the European Union and NATO, accepting the agreement between the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Greece?". Is there somewhere here in the petition agreement in the Republic of Macedonia? There's nowhere to be reported. The reference is between the first part, where the Hellenic Republic is and the second part, where reference is made to the decision number of the United Nations General Assembly. This exposes those who speak of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, seeking to say that Macedonia already exists in Macedonia. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have said - for the third time, I have said it twice more than this Step - that the 'former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia' is a non-name. It is a temporary typical name given and could be likened to Papadopoulos, who applied to the municipality of his region to change his surname and until they find him a new surname, they call him "former Papadopoulos". This is not a surname. It is the name that this particular region had during the time that Yugoslavia existed during the Tito period and until the name it would take, they called it 'former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia'. It is therefore not a name and it cannot be constantly invoked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Lazaridis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u231	I'll be in less than half a minute, Mr. President. Your tolerance for less than half a minute. We're talking about citizenship. Why didn't you ask for the 'nationality' to enter the 'North-Macedonian'? Of course, here we can make it clear that I am against the term 'Macedonia' entirely. But, having accepted the 'North Macedonia', why did you not oblige them to enter the 'North Macedonian'? Why shouldn't the Slav-Macedonian enter the language? You let them write "Macedonian", but there is the footnote. Who will come to this footnote?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Lazarides, it's been the half-minute you asked for. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u233	I'm closing, Mr. President. Okay. On the subject of changing the constitution, even that's where they've been violated. We are talking here without having completed the changes, and it is something that is still outlining those who supported this agreement. I clearly objected, as I opposed both previous times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u234	The parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u235	In the most official way and in the last House - not that it is today - the SYRIZA Government - because SYRIZA is now - it appears to an American champion, the best advocate of the most murderous machine that humanity has ever known in NATO. It confirms the report by the State Department of the United States, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because not everyone knows English. "Greece is a committed partner in promoting US interests inside and outside Greece." We'll say it every time for the people to inspire it, because you know it. Confirms the report that says "Greece takes a leading role in the integration of the countries of the Western Balkans into the European Union and NATO, in Euro-Atlantic integration". Congratulations! You've been transferred to an American pherophone. Mission accomplished. The masks are down. Now they're down completely. And the last fig sheet and the last pretext. You went to another bullet. You've been revealed. Were they hidden love? Did you always believe it or did you adopt it now? Now you are baptizing NATO and the United States to a factor of peace and security. "The killers, etc.", you said, hypocritically or not, turned into a factor of peace and security. The Naval killers, the criminals against the people. You say NATO is a system of collective security. Really, security and defence from whom and against whom? Answer this. NATO's bloodthirsty story and its present, the recent and today's. Security for the interests of monopolies, imperialism, that handful of monopolies, the rich states, 10% of humanity that holds 90% of world wealth, namely capitalism. Security for their sovereignty. That is what you support and say it openly. For 90% of the world's population fire and iron, stumbling, not to dare to demand and take away the wealth they produce in their hands, not even to dare claim a larger piece. Iron-scratched armies, guards of wealth and imperialism paid by the people, deadly net for the people, protection of capital, this is NATO. His story shows it. It looks like today too. Interventions, coups, and if these do not arrive, it follows filthy and disastrous war, breakdown of countries, mass murders, refugees, drowned children, people in the seas. This is the NATO that you are praising today. And those countries that do not submit to it literally breaks them. They are called 'a factor of peace and security'. It's disgraceful! That's what we're telling you, with as much voice as we can have! For all of you and not just for SYRIZA, not to blame anyone. Really, how does a progressive, left-wing, democratic - I would say - people when they hear all this? What's your message, really? You will pay it very expensive, know, sooner or later, all of you and especially you. And I mean SYRIZA. And they dare and say "we serve the values of the Left". In fact, you get caught in your mouth, regardless of anything else, the hero communist, Nikos Belogannis, who was executed by order of Piat of the time, Pyrifoi, who was an American Ambassador. And today, nothing has changed, because today's ambassador, whom you have pictured and followed, is the one who murdered - politically, I mean, but also practical - Ukrainians, along with the fascists of Kiev and then accidentally came to Greece. You're poisoning. You're insidiously toxic, because you're still carrying the name of the Left, which is incompatible with all that you're doing. You're insidiously toxic to the new generation especially, because older people know something. For the new generation, you're a laundry machine. What you're doing today is incredible. You tell the new generation to submit to the barbarity of imperialism. What's disgraceful and disgraceful? How do these people who are listening to you, in the argument of the New Democracy, the PASOK before, all urban forces for NATO and the country's attitude? "Isolation? Are we going to be alone? Are we going to have a lonely course? We must be under some alliance." I will repeat that no matter how much laundry you become, it's so much blood, injustice, inhumanity, which is burdening Natoian and imperialism in total, that you're not going to wash them out. The security guarantee for the Balkan peoples, you all say together, without a trace of logic, I am not saying politics. You're acquitting the Balkan molester with that attitude and you'll hear them later. Who are you talking about? For the new NATO that Mr Katrugalos said, he is not here. Then, he says, we criticized. What criticism? We did the whole People's Movement, all the progressive powers, all the left forces. And the PASOK and others were climbed with 'EEC and NATO, the same union'. And then, of course, it became a "good trade union", angels. Now you, of course, did it very quickly. You did not have time to 'kitch'. PASOK's late at least. So who are you talking about? For the Balkans. Yugoslavia, break up Yugoslavia? Who? NATO. Dirty war! NATO, Mr Toska and the soldiers you know, abolished what customary - is, of course, a contradiction - there was in the war. He bombed nine and ten kilometers, because he knew Yeltsin sold Yugoslavia. It has not dared to go down to the people of Yugoslavia, because it would sneeze it back then and you know it very well, perhaps better than us, no matter what you say. So what did "New NATO" do? I'll dedicate it to you. I would like to present to you an interview by Captain Adolf Luis Martin and by La Hoz of Spanish Air Force, published in the Spanish newspaper "ARTICULO 20", on 14 June 1999: "We have destroyed this country. We bombed with weapons of the highest technology, nerve gases, parachute mines, which exploded as soon as they touch the ground, bombs containing uranium, black napalm, chemicals that cause sterilization...’ I say this for SYRIZA's trolls, something they say about sprayed. And, of course, four years, he was with the sprayed ones. I continue: '... spray that poisons crops and even weapons...' - listen to the - '... for which we did not know to date that they existed. And all that with the guidance of your North American allies. Aren't you ashamed? Hide your head under the benches! "One of the greatest barbarisms against humanity has been committed." I submit it for the Minutes the English text and the Greek text, and I ask you to give it to everyone, especially those who want to be called left-wings, put it next door when they vote for NATO and give it to their children, their youth and the world that comes, telling them that this is what you are supporting now, with them you are now, to understand the size that exists. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Too much blood the signature, red is from the blood of the people, the one you will all put for joining NATO. The next generations will come after you. The story will write you in black letters. And you say 'We are making a peaceful foreign policy'. Who are you telling all this to? Have you signed all NATO's decisions since 2015 that you have come to date, yes or no? You signed them. Did you sign the first nuclear attack as a government? In other words, NATO came to the Bucharest Summit - not the old one, the next if I remember correctly - and it says "we are released and said we will hit first with nuclear". Did you sign it or not? Secondly, you participate in all NATO's military exercises and contribute to all the scenarios - the Minister of National Defence or the previous one is not here - which is wartime. You even went to Norway. Fight who? With Turkey? Who are you kidding? How much money does the Greek people give, how much billions each year, for these naval war exercises? What are they serving? Our national defense? Third, are we talking about a peaceful country that's sown on sixteen bases? We've lost the account. You came and you did what they couldn't - even though they would, and they would - the previous ones would. You gave new American bases, drones in Larissa, Stefanovicio, Alexandroupolis, Karpathos. They didn't ask for it, you offered it to them. And if it was Kammenos's, why didn't the Prime Minister come out and say we don't agree? And you're talking about a peaceful policy? What are the foundations of death? Are pigeons today because you came to the government? Finally, I will repeat something in order to reply to the President of the Commission, Mr Doussina. We're not making a risk. We tell the Greek people that Greece within this great grid of contradictions, within the deadlocks and conflicts of the imperialist forces, is becoming a target. The Greek people should know that in the event of a more general war and a general conflict, they will be bombed from Alexandroupolis to Crete, from top to bottom. And the others have better technology than your American friends! We're not with them, but we don't choose and who's gonna slaughter us after all! We serve the national interest. I can't answer that. Nikos Karathanasopoulos and Yannis Giokas answered. All governments say that. What interests? The people? The monopolies. They are the design of monopolies in the economic sector and in the military for the general control of the area and the wealthy sources, etc. That's what you're doing. Nothing more, nothing less. There is no autonomous SYRIZA policy. It's subjection and it's following, because it's the interests of the Greek bourgeoisie. It's what Mr. Simitis said "invading the Balkans" and when you went to Yugoslavia, you understood what he meant. You thought you were in the Constitution. All banks were there. The Greek investments left after each other and went where they had different conditions. And now the new account begins: “We are realistic and pragmatic.” In history and always what does realism mean? There is the realism of subjection in the correlation of powers, which serves the interests of those who dominate the world, and there is also the realization of the needs of the people we say, which, when they realize it, can turn things backwards. Realism means cynicism. Stop that "cyclically we say, this is the situation, with them we are and you do what you want." All the history of humanity and the social revolutions that were objectively necessary, all the progress of societies did not move from realists, within or outside importing, from those who took into account the correlation of forces, resisted and organized its overthrow. They were the ones who moved the wheel of overthrow. Progress has not been made by those who served the dominant system, the old, the rotten, as today, because it is served by all of you, but has proceeded to those who have chosen the resistance, the way of overthrowing, the top of Red October 1917. If history has a setback - and it has drawbacks - this setback prepares the big jump. So you, with imperialism and NATO, with the people's killers. That's the truth. We with the people against them. You with capitalist barbarism, we overthrow it. This is the left communist 'no' and this agreement. Finally, I wanted to dedicate to the world a song by Panos Javellas, written by Leuteris Papadopoulos. "This red train... which goes through the fire," so says the song, "the banditers beat it." I don't want to say exactly, you know who you've been to, because I see some people swing their heads.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u236	Indoor JAPD...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u237	It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter! He's dedicating to you. "The red train doesn't stop anywhere. This red train is for us life, it is an honor." It is the bright future, the hope for a world of peace, friendship, the abolition of human exploitation by man, is the oath of the JRC, no matter how much they "closed" to disperse it contradictory and different shapes, is always upright. This road will be followed by peoples sooner or later. They will break locks and chains and send to the unclaimed in their history any prisoners, whatever uniform they wear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and three educational attendances from the 4th Patras High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor, followed by Mr Zouraris, who will complete the list of speakers. The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Marios Georgiadis, will be followed. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. It's not the best thing to talk after Thanasis Paphie, who's a torrent, and it's an old caravans in this House, and very experienced. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to a fact which I think has been launched for the next few weeks, not to say days. It's all about health examination, where I soon believe judicial investigation will take flesh and bone and some developments may begin. It's a big deal about what I'm going to say next. I would like to begin with today's subject and say: no politician or diplomat has dared in an entire century, in the 20th century, to say what is heard in this Chamber, that 'Macedonia is one and it is Greek'. No one dared and I imagine that the governments that dominated at the time were left and the diplomats were all left. Treaty of Bucharest 1913. The second Balkan wars are over and 51% of Greece gets from Macedonia's geographical part. It is then when Florina, Kavala, Serres and other prefectures are annexed, 39% are taken by united Yugoslavia, 9.5% is taken by Bulgaria and 0.5% is taken by Albania. No one, in an entire century, did sing the word "Macedonia is one and Greek". I don't have much time, five to six minutes is my time. I just want to make a report. Nikos Mertzos was adviser on national issues to personalities of the time, such as Constantine Karamanlis, as was Evangelos Averov, as was Constantine Mitsotakis. This man, who lives still, two weeks ago, wrote an article in "KATHMERINI". Because hypocrisy has left over in this Chamber, I would ask you to read the arguments of this man who still lives in his ninety-three and I hope he will incite them more. What Nikos Merzos says is nothing more and nothing less than this agreement, which this government has been afflicting our country for many decades. Nikos Alivizatos, too, is a man who almost worked decisively for KINAL. Read, too, what he says about this deal. Furthermore, I call for it to be a Member of the River, but we all know that he was a well-known scientist who does not enter molds and party margins. So we see from all places good people say the same thing. I do not want to remind Mr Venizelos' speech to the UN, I do not want to remind him of the interview that Antonis Samaras gave Kotakis, I do not want to remind Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, what exactly did Bucharest and all that. Because hypocrisy - and I am mild - is abundant in this Chamber, quite rightly we say that it was a matter that had to be resolved and I believe that to a large extent its solution has been launched. I thought and thought that some people were emotionally misled. If you want me to charge a responsibility for the incomplete information, which has not been preceded, to accept that as well. But I think that small is now the part that is fantasized, is the victim of this fanaticism, in multiple ways, not messages and phones, up to my home - and goes by saying - arsons and these. Politics has that. However, I believe that the concept of fanaticism is not correct, and it is a pity that only two parliamentarians, and later Mr Denkias, I have to admit, have taken a distance from this fanaticism. Mrs Bakoyannis, Nikitas Kaklamanis and Nikos Dendias. I went up to the tiles when Kostis Hadjidakis was beaten in the Constitution, I went up to the tiles when Nikos Dendias was threatened in this Chamber, not only with verbal prejudice but also physical violence. I believe in that we must understand and agree. I do not want to say any more about this. Besides, he's exhausted. I want two minutes of your tolerance, Mr President, if you have the kindness of something that concerns me, as I have been in the eye of the cyclone for a long time. I've heard the millions. I do not have any reluctance to report to them - such as the'successful persecutor', 'immoral', 'inhabitant','marionet', 'willing', 'political persecutor' and much more. I don't want to exacerbate the climate. It's politics, too. I would like to say this: what was the crime, my own and other five colleagues? We agreed, when we asked for a vote of confidence and said 'yes, this government has our confidence'. I am one of those who have said 'I will never cooperate, the government that, in my opinion, is doing well to fall'. What did I hear? 'Thirty-two MPs', 'curly', unbelievable verbal violence. For what? For the self-evident thing. What did the six of us do? Shall we put things down? Has an individual Member ever been able to speak his opinion? Only by roll-call vote. What happened to S.H.I.E.L.D.? 'Cause some people talk comfortably about courtesy. The House, its plenary, then, was relaxed. What was the result? They voted a hundred and fifty three MPs. Is this going to happen every day? Oh, no. Did we have the possibility of doing something? Yeah. What? Every time, then, we say that we vote on those forty-five percent of the majority. Where's the crime? What's the diversion to understand? Because I've been one of those who I've been writing for the composite name for twenty-four years. My article is found in "ELLEROTYPIA" and you can find it. What's the diversion? What's the coup, so I can figure it out? As a snatch, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely regret that they are unfair to myself, colleagues whom I have not spoken to. And Mrs Martinou, a colleague you don't even know. We've been graves for four years in this House. We never created a subject, I never spoke. I'm working really hard. Cuveda! Haven't I disagreed? Many times. I mean, the subject of my party, yes, it could have been. It is a matter of the President of the Independent Greeks, although what and how he would treat some MPs who have a different opinion. It has nothing to do with diversion. Where did this thing come from? Especially for me, I was a secretary of the parliamentary group, a parliamentary representative. It is not the tip of any colleague who has another view. I stayed there in the party until the last minute, I didn't even get independent. I'm not criticizing someone who's changing a party. He's made his other choice. However, I have accepted incredible war, unfairly, in my opinion, because I have had a consistent conduct that I have expressed for eleven months. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I'm sorry, because with Mr. Mitsotakis we started together. That was a famous name at the time, I wasn't. And I was sorry, because I remember Kyriakos, when he made a proper proposal for Athens to break, which didn't help him. In any event, he wanted to revise Article 86. I remember them. He's done it. And I am really sorry, because at the moment with the choices he makes - it is the fourth institutional factor and I respect him - it is not good for the country. Because I don't want to exacerbate this climate that is already acidified, and I was one of those who raced and tried to stay in mild tones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Zouraris has the floor now from the Independent Greeks. Immediately after that, Mr Georgiadis, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, is following, and we are entering the intervention procedure of the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u241	Mr. President, my respects. I have a question and a question. Because he has used dishonorable expressions against me by the Chief of the Major minority, but outside of Parliament, I have the opportunity here to speak on behalf of my staff, or should I have to buy it in my total reason? He was out of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u242	I think you're giving it the answer yourself to your question. Build what you want to build in your word. It's not personal. And when we talk on personal grounds, you know the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u243	Good. So, in the first place, the impunity. It's three. It is two sorts of disgraceful and one which, of course, involves at the expense of your Chief, obviously, and criminal pursuits. The first is the 'turnover'. Of course, I've been a stroller for fifty years. At the eight corners of the winds, Seferis says. I proclaimed the Greek word, the Greek state, the Greek culture in about sixteen thousand students at the eight corners of the wind, on four continents of the five. And you remember when something had happened in the first phase of the memoranda, which thousands of young people came out of all the planet, all over the planet and said, "We are all Greeks, we are with you, we have not abandoned you, we will not abandon you. You have given humanity the lights." Too many of them were my students, they were my students back then. Of course I was a Gymologist. Secondly, 'Marinetta'. Of course, I was a puppet. In the other language, the Greek puppet is called the image and likeness. Of course, I have been in the image and likeness of the Greek practically written elements of civilization, because I served and prosecuted with respect, and I think I fertilized according to the great Greek speech, the three thousand years, the one who allowed humanity to cease is humanoid and to be human. So, I was a Gymologist, and - how did we say so? - Puppets, icons and puppets. Third, of course, it's a little more... The Malawi President, the right-wing chief - he is also the right-wing leader, of course, since he is the leader of the right-wing party - Mitsotakis dared to say this. Of course, with its delusional relationship with the Greek language and its prepared spiritual training, Mitsotakis said to you: I am an additional - and this is very interesting - MP at an opportunity. My dear, Mr. Dendia, at an opportunity price means that I've been hired at an opportunity price. With this I will drag him to court and your Chief will come begging votes from SYRIZA to avoid his immunity being lifted. For - it must finally be understood - the principle of all virtues. Nor on my foot foot foot foot foot can compare my work to the work of the nonexistent Mitsotakis. Not even my foot foot foot foot foot. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] And now for NATO. I've got a big problem, and I'm thinking big now. Since 1953, when we were "sucked" in NATO as defeated by the Civil War, I, my family, hate NATO. What the JRC said is right and vigilant and more correct etc. Don't repeat it. It's a criminal organization typical of the Koza Nostra militant type. You remember where he went to Baghdad. First there was plunder for Cheney and they ate all the ancients of Mesopotamia in one of the most beautiful museums on the planet. The Special Forces team took them and took them to Cheney. That's what this terrorist organization and NATO gangbangers did. So who's the reasoning? And I ask all Members to help. I want with my grief vote to hurt NATO. But come on, because of the heterogeneity of purposes, sometimes things are not as simple as that. I also want your advice: How will I hurt NATO more with my grief, of course, voting? By voting in favour of the admission of Skopje to NATO or by voting against NATO? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u244	With Mr. Zouri, the speaker's circle has been completed. We continue with the parliamentary representatives. Mr Georgiadis has the floor from the Centron Association. Then Mr. Xydakis, Mr. Dendias, will speak. He then asked the Minister to intervene. Then Mrs. Collia-Charuha will speak. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's ratification as a follow-up to the debate on the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement is indeed the second part of the drama, as we at least have in the ranks of the Union of Centres. Unfortunately, despite the fact that the current government is still an occasional majority government, it completes this moderation. The 'SYRIZANEL' - and I do not say it accidentally, because Mr Kammenos has now lifted the government's trust, but we consider him to be co-responsible for the Prespecies Agreement, but also all the others who are willing to do so - have offered the Macedonian's dish', the name, history, culture, language, citizenship and erga omnes. It's really the only government in history who without losing war gave everything to FYROM. Government ministers, but also several SYRIZA MPs, have said that this Prespecies Agreement will enhance the role of Thessaloniki and, more generally, the Balkans and south-eastern Europe. In fact, they hide that in the agreement there is one of the greatest pitfalls for Thessaloniki and, more generally, for our Macedonia. I am referring to Article 13, which was added as an extra bonus for Skopje, where this country is designated as enclosed, with reference to the practical application of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. This means that SYRIZA has granted the right to exploit - and so it must be, I do not disagree with this - on an equal footing with the resources of the Greek EEZ, to fish in the Thermaikos and so on. I am tabling the relevant articles of the UN Convention on this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, what we pointed out last June and the entire government rose up with terrible arguments, such as that there is the Interim Agreement of '95 and that - allegedly - the UN obliges all countries to sign similar agreements with enclosed states to add this article, I will say that they have no basis at all. First of all, the first, namely that the Skopje have succeeded in deceiving the 1995 government at the time, is not an argument for what you have made at the moment. Obviously, that is an excuse. Or we can say the then negotiators did not do their job well. With regard to the second, I would like to remind you that a year and a half ago FYROM and Bulgaria signed a similar agreement. In none of its fourteen articles there is a similar provision despite Bulgaria being regarded as a coastal State. I am tabling the original text of the relevant agreement - in Bulgarian, of course, there is no English translation - between the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is true that not all the necessary changes have been made and everywhere it is referred to as 'Macedonia', even though they should be mentioned as FYROM even for Bulgarians. We now go to the erga omnes, where Articles 1.8, 1.9 and 1.10 stipulate that we will have two transitional periods, so-called 'technical' and so-called 'political'. For the technical period, the period shall be for documents for international use and shall be five years. The political period, i.e. the documents for internal use, will start at the opening of every relevant negotiating chapter of the European Union and will last five years. What's going on now? Given that any accession to the European Union that may exist for FYROM will not be completed before 2030 logically, everyone realises that this practical change of documents may not be completed when. I would also like to make a special reference to a point which concerns us in particular, at least in the Central Association, Article 1.3i, where it concerns the commercial uses of the name and the trade marks. Apart from the fact that everything is referred to in a committee which meets and holds discussions for three years, private companies have, on our behalf, left outside. And what do we have as a result? The official, for example, so-called ‘Macedonian AIRLINES’ airline, will be able, on the basis of Article 1.3g, to freely circulate and promote it is Macedonia. Not even renamed to Northern Macedonia, North Macedonian Airlines and so on. It will be Macedonian Airlines. So forever and without any commitment we will not change the trade. Ladies and gentlemen, there are too many dark points in this agreement. You guys think it's great now. The next government, however, which I do not know if you will continue to be or will be from the Realisation now, will have to look very seriously at the fact and try to take advantage of it, such as Article 60 of the Vienna Treaty, where it can annul this agreement, because it is simply one of the agreements that has already been agreed. I'm on my way. Firstly, the Skopje referendum could also be declared invalid, since participation by the population was only 36.8% and not 50% on the basis of the Skopje Constitution. Secondly, the President of Skopje, Ivanov, refused to sign the so-called amendments to the constitution, despite the fact that Article 75 obliges him to do so. I give the Minutes what is referred to in Article 75. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, Article 1.4e of the Agreement was violated, as the so-called constitutional changes should have been completed by the end of 2018, which was not done. Fourthly, there are not too many anti-corruption articles in the Skopje constitution beyond three, which the government has changed. There are more than ten articles, which deal with anti-corrosion elements, and they will cause us a problem in the future. No one has mentioned them. I had it submitted when we talked about the Prespecies Agreement. I'm filing them once again and they're at your disposal. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fifth, the famous private communication. Apart from the unacceptable, the fact that the Prime Minister has legislated it without even analysing it and has already made it clear in the minutes of the House, he speaks of the 'Macedonian people', which obviously accepted your government by introducing new terms out of agreement. Sixth, on October 1, 2018, the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement mentioning a wide-ranging propaganda and interventions by actors from the European Union and NATO, so the appropriate conditions for the referendum were not guaranteed, he says. I put the relevant communication in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Seventhly, the Agency for Cooperation and Security in Europe on 19 January issued the final conclusion of the Skopje referendum, where it talks about incomplete transparency on the part of the electoral administration, the wording of the question that could mislead voters, a decision of the electoral committee that the government proposal was rejected by the referendum, a decision of their constitutional court in which it gave its opinion that accession to an international organisation requires a valid referendum. I submit to the minutes the relevant extract from the finding. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And eighth, the complaints about a substantial involvement of the Greek Government in the electoral process there with this incomprehensible and fragmented takeover of EUR 5 million for PPC of the non-existent Balkan energy dwarf, I could say, the EDS, raises too many concerns about what has happened. I'm going to New Democracy. If you agree, gentlemen, that the agreement is infamous, do you commit that you will exhaust any margin to cancel this - I mentioned some examples that might have a basis for the future - or it suits you for SYRIZA going through at the moment and you will simply hide behind this procedure that is being conducted? You will do everything you can to cancel it or simply, as your President has left and said, you will try not to cost Greece any cost from this agreement, because we want to know your position as well. And you - I am referring to the Prime Minister, who has been missing so far - and your members have not come out publicly, Mr. Dritsas, the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Bored and said that he is against NATO? In fact, the Prime Minister said that after the Cold War was completed, this agency should be abolished and it is in SYRIZA's position that we should abolish this agency. Now why are we bringing a country's membership process to NATO, since you don't believe in it? Suffocation? Probably, but you're used to us. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Central Association will never accept a name for Skopje containing the sacred word 'Macedonia' or any of its derivatives. We did, and we'll talk about it again. The Embassy Agreement is a result of modesty. And because someone, when I was in a panel, told me that you didn't say words like that, it's not a dividend, it's too heavy, we're having a conversation with everyone, because if we don't have a conversation with everyone, it means we ignore them. So, gentlemen of the Couple, you ignored all the political leaders and did not hold a meeting of political leaders. You ignored the leaders, at least in the whole, because you knew that Mr. Kammenos would not agree. You ignored the people. There was a great rally, and the next day you showed the great scandal of 'NOVARTIS'. It became a second rally in Athens with hundreds of thousands of people and sprayed with chemical children and old people to manage to limit it. You have ignored this House, you have not brought the matter to a debate before you will be able to conclude the Presidencies' Agreement. You have spent it with borrowers, indeed, willingly, with apostates, as we say, by dismantling parliamentary groups. You've dissolved the river. Dissolve the Independent Greeks now. You dissolved KINAL as KINAL because Mr. Theocharopoulos left, but DIMAR left outside KINAL, left the Potami, which was supposed to unite the big center and has only the pure PASOK left. You've broken up that effort he wanted to make the great union of the Centre. Speaking of apostates...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u246	Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not interrupt. Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u247	I shall conclude, Mr President, in the next minute. Since I referred to apostates, really, Mr. Kammens accuses the government of betraying and apostate, where, in their ranks, Mr. Kammenos has a renegade all set up? Mr. Kammenos has no right to speak of apostates. In fact, the paradox of this House is that we are dealing with lawnmowers, dealing with curabies, dealing with borrowers, transferring from football to letters from willing to sign everything without seeing them, just like that. It's never happened before. With allegations of blackmail being brought to the GDR now, to completely disorientate the entire agenda, we should be concerned about whether it is a victim of blackmail by a colleague from a political leader to sue, with minutes that have been discussed in a parliamentary group for the reason that we have to agree on the Ambassadors' agreement, the streets. With all these absurdities happening, indeed, there is a general frustration and only one way to get rid of all these phenomena: Elections, ladies and gentlemen, to end forever of all the flares that exist in the Greek Parliament, to have a cross and to have the abilities and those that the Greek people want and not to fill appointed MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Central Association, we will do everything in our power and commit ourselves in public so that in future we can cancel this appalling Prespecies Agreement and of course do not ratify Macedonia's accession to NATO. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u248	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Xydakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a follow-up to the great meeting on the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement today comes the ratification of the entry protocol to NATO in the neighbouring country, which is now in northern Macedonia, and we hear some arguments, some debate is being opened. I would like the impression, particularly from the speech of the rapporteur for the major opposition, Mr Kumucaku, to get an impression, an aftertaste, a word coming from me: hypocrisy, hypocrisy, hypocrisy. I wonder for the complete abandonment of a tradition, at least during the post-population, diplomatic pragmatism, which characterised the conservative faction and the prolongation of PASOK, which produced critical moments showed no wisdom, but also did not show any resistance in some cases, or in any case there was a strategy, there was a direction, we knew where we were going in general and in general what Constantine Karamanlis had said and did what Andreas Papandreou had done and done were giving the great picture. In the 2000s Kostas Karamanlis and Dora Bakoyannis put a framework on the issue of Macedonia and we knew where we were going. Here at the altar of a voter's rabies and a special revansism that is not just electoral, I see in conservative fact a extreme right-wing diaspora with an ideological core. This is not the policy of Constantine Karamanlis or even Evangelos Averov, it is not the policy of Constantine Mitsotakis, it is not Dora Bakoyannis. There has been an infection of the New Democracy by the far-right underground of the old right-wing house by LAOS and the unrepentant revivalist Antonis Samaras, and this generally affects the national strategy and affects the central area, as expressed today by KINAL. Hypocrisy strikes red when it asks for assurances that major opposition in relation to what NATO will do in some hypothetical scenarios, when we know very well that they have entered with our own consensus and without going through such processes, overwhelming political - and rightly so - all the countries of the Eastern Balkans and Albania. Albania went to government Kostas Karamanlis, accepted in NATO with our own consensus and informally, except for essential politically, we received the mutual definition of EEZ in return.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u250	Is that a little bit?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u251	Not a little bit. But what assurance did the Greek side get? A year after the Tirana Constitutional Court threw this deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u252	The Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u253	So I'm going to blame the Karamanlis government for not keeping Albania's word? We could say that he did not receive any good guarantees, he did not make good deals. That's how diplomacy is done, and that's the diplomatic realism. You try to ensure your country's interests on the basis of what is currently happening in the geopolitical field and what you can predict in the visible future rather than by voting in the squares and crying in the cafes and in the anger of innocent patriots who have neither knowledge nor information. And it is our fault that we have not given them this knowledge, this education and that data. I would also like to address my fellow Members to Parliament and to the Greek citizens who are listening to us. The foreign policy, above all, is based on the unsolved needs of the respective adjustments to what the power correlation defines and, above all, the national interest, how you are currently sharing in what is currently shared in the Balkans, in Europe, in the south-eastern Mediterranean, how new energy routes are drawn up, how the new geopolitical connections are formed. In the Middle East, who know of spasm and war, they have a proverb: "When there is a celebration and you're not invited, be careful why you're going to be on the table to eat you." Greece must be on the negotiating table, on the table of large splits, on the table of energy planning, chatting with Skopje, recognizing what it can get, walking together, constantly chatting with Turkey. Because if you don't talk to the strong and stubborn neighbor, alas, what awaits both our region and our peoples and all the peoples. We also need to understand that from the relative conveniences of the cold war, which the JRC also invokes by saying that NATO is bad and the Warsaw Pact was good - the convenience of the cold war has passed which had difficulties there too - we have been in an even more difficult world, in the post-collar warfare, in the world of multipolarity, in the hybrid wars. Those who want to make wars no longer do troops down on the ground, as Mr Pafilis said, but they do 'proxy wars'. They've got electronic wars, they're diving systems all over, they're paralyzing the opponent. 'Proxy wars' are said to be wars with representatives. This is happening in the Middle East. This is happening in many parts of the world. There is also a war of information, wars of people's representations, wars of control of social media, wars of lies, of make news. Presidents came out like this! With Twitter and the analyses of "CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA" Trump came out President and took advantage of all patterns of post-fascism. Using the "What's Up" President, the extreme right Bolsonarou came out, promising the extermination of the people in the favelas, and they voted for him. So let us be careful that all the patterns used by the fraudsters of Macedonia, by the negligents of democracy and the enemies of democracy, do not enter into the public dialogue of democratic forces. The New Democracy can vote - and this is legitimate within the limits of the democratic game - but cannot flirt with all the motifs of fascism, in which the European extreme right is used, invoked by a mythical built past, invoked by a racially clean people, who are blonde, Christian, racist and anti-Semitism from thousands of years old. That's what Orban says in Hungary, and he's establishing it, he's prescribing it. That's the lies Katsinsky says in Poland. Those lies are Bannon and his staff from Trump's staff in the United States. They are lies that exploit sexual anxiety, fears, "mastism" and patriarchy. These are dispersed in Hungary and across the European extreme right. They consecrate a family of mythical that has never existed and bless weapons of murderers and guns of childcare and feminine. This is the phrase of conspiracy, the invoicing of Zion's protocols, the invoking of a almighty Dark Soros that directs the universe. That's the phrase. This is the practice of fascism from all over the Middle War, the slander, the character assassination, the lies. They are used by the Vice President of the New Democracy, the mythical Maldives. That is what today's fascist reason is: lying, mud, dictionary and slander. And these do not threaten the New Democracy party, they do not threaten the SYRIZA Government, they threaten the Greek society, the Hellenic Republic. So let Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who at his youth started liberal and tried to renew the Greek Parliament and the Greek parliamentary morale. Because, as the day before yesterday, he was begging for legalisation by the half-Greek, secondary Vebber, the one who said the worst about the Greek people, so tomorrow he would go to ask for legalisation and mercy for the enthusiastic and humiliated Greek people from Fascist Orban, fundamentalist Katsinski and all the extreme right-wing scum of Europe, which threatens the European structure itself. To ask for sympathy from Zehofer, who was just two to three months ago mocking the Greek people. They mocked him at the time of the crisis and humiliation from the people's flirts, mocked him and humiliated him when he gave the pan-European example of dealing with the refugee crisis. So let Mr Mitsotakis be careful why he cannot be hijacked by the extreme right within his own party, but soon Europe will mock him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u254	Mr Deedias, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the duty of the Parliamentary Representative of the Vice-President is, first of all, to gather what has been said before and for what he represents, namely the President of the party. I will begin, Mr Xydakis, by what you said. You challenged Manfred Webber. I'm telling you sincerely, and I'm telling you for my own experience. I worked with him as the Minister of Development in 2014 and to prepare the visit to Germany and Gabriel and the Minister of Finance at that time, Soible. I have to tell you that Manfred Webber has been friendly to us. Of course, we did not see all matters in the same way. But the way you describe him is wrong, as is Mr. Mitsotakis. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we must be clear about this. New Democracy and Mitsotakis have taken a vertical stand against the Orban phenomenon, the phenomenon of these countries and the parties in these countries. The fact that these parties belong to the European People's Party does not mean that we and these parties see reality in the same way. And I think that not only are you wrong and unfair to us, but you are harming us, if you want, and the national interests and the broader attitude that we are trying to follow in the same way as these parties. I have told you many times before not to heterose us. Let us determine the self-determination resulting from our ideas and words. Also, Mr Zurari, when I had time, I looked at the speech a little bit. I do not hide from you that I was sorry about what you said about the Head of the New Democracy, because we honor you as a person. He didn't personally blame you. The phrase he has used is 'it could be said of Members at an opportunity'. He did not say that they existed, he did not address a proposal, he did not make a complaint. His wording, as sent to me by my own office, is an extremely careful wording and is part of a phrase. Of course, the gift of the book to the Chief of New Democracy I think solves any misunderstandings in the best way possible. At least two parties have called for the legacy of Constantine Mitsotakis by the wording of their Members, ladies and gentlemen. Here, too, I would like to ask you, although I understand very well that the great politicians, especially after death, are beyond their parties, their fascination belongs to Greek society, to the Greek people and to the home - this category includes Constantine Mitsotakis, as well as other major politicians - the narrow part of his political presence as leader of the New Democracy and his practice of allowing us to represent and express it in this Chamber. I think anything else is absolutely inconsistent. As is also absolutely inconsistent with you, my dear fellow Member, the example of Britain and Brittany. I am sure you said this, knowing completely that it is a historic joke, that it is not true, that General Charles de Goll's veto at the entrance of Britain to the European Union had nothing to do with Brittany. This issue of Brittany and their relatives had been solved in the Century War, or about the 15th century, did not reach the 20th century. And also, 'Union', as you say, like the flag 'Union Jack', if I may tell you, even though I suspect you know it, comes from King James I, James, Jack, his caregiver. He created the flag, the projection of the two flags, England and Scotland, and ironically - if you like - the English called it, because they always have this, their flag 'Union Jack'. There is therefore no question of analogy with the case we are facing today. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have "simplified" what has been said, now let us go to the main issues. What are we talking about here? We are discussing the Closure of the Protocol of Accession of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Alliance. And that is a consequence of the Prespecies Agreement ratified by the Greek Parliament. For us, New Democracy, it is a matter of reasonable consistency - not even politics - to vote against this agreement. We cannot have voted against the Prespecies Agreement and now come in favour or debate whether we can take any other position on the ratification of this protocol. However, this does not mean a change of attitude to the wider political issues towards the North Atlantic Alliance, towards the country's orientation, to what the late Constantine Karamanlis said "we belonged to the West". This is the position of the New Democracy. Sometimes our relationship with NATO has gone through problems, particularly problems. Many times and on many issues we do not see exactly the same way as NATO. But we understand the country as a country participating in the alliance, as a country trying to express its interests through this alliance, sometimes easily, sometimes difficult, sometimes with controversy, sometimes with battles, but in this context. But that, which, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say quite clearly - and I do not say it to you in the sense of suggestion or to blame you on what you said yesterday - is that you had a position that was very strong against NATO. You said on several occasions: "On our side we have declared..." - this is 2009 - that we consider NATO as an aggressive organisation." This is a phrase by late Banjas since 2009, a spiritual father in fact of a large part of today's SYRIZA. In 2013, in the political decision of the founding conference as foreign policy axes, you formulated NATO's release, abolishing foreign military bases. In other texts, you speak directly about the abolition of NATO, about the dissolution of NATO. I'm not trying to tell you that you were saying any more now. But what you have to do is explain to us - the change may be permissible - what the new framework of thought you have. In other words, how do you understand the change in your position within the framework of Greek foreign policy? What will the new Greek foreign policy be for you, as you hire it through your encouragement to join, not only Greece in NATO, but also other countries in NATO? How do you see the world now? Because wrongly changing lies is not bad for a political party itself, but even a government has an obligation to explain to the National Representation and to the Greek society how it takes things anymore. Procedures in this Chamber are not monologue procedures or procedures for defrauding the electorate. They are dialogue procedures and dialogue presupposes a perception of the interlocutor's position and you are our institutional interlocutors. And we require you and the government to explain its position, to explain to us how it sees the country, where we go, what the positions we will have to discuss in the future, how the future of the country sees. Ladies and gentlemen, it comes before us - and it is extremely important - the accession process of Skopje, Northern Macedonia. How do you see this process? How do you see the chapters of this process? The New Democracy through its President has been clearly placed. This process will be used by us to prevent the neighbouring country's government from misinterpreting anything from this agreement would allow for misinterpretation. And I do not hide from you that we have the secret desire and pursuit - and we believe that we will be able to do so - to improve errors which could have been avoided by you - and I am referring to the Government - if you have allowed national coexistence in the negotiation. Because no matter how capable Mr Kotzias is - I cannot count it - I believe that he needed a great deal of help to achieve a meaningfully better result, which was necessary for this agreement to be deemed acceptable. And we tell you, because we - I tell you again - do not believe in a claustrophobic, enclosed Greece, we do not have the problem of feeling threatened by everyone. We believe in an extrovert Greece, in a Greece that sees outwards a bridge towards the Balkans. But, in order to achieve this, we cannot achieve it on the basis of an agreement which creates problems at our expense. We need to solve the problems so that we can move forward. In order to survive, ladies and gentlemen, Greece needs a larger market, not only in the sense of the product market, it needs a greater area of cultural and cultural expression. Greece needs a greater space for dialogue with other communities, for the country's revitalization, through contact with other peoples, from a wider perspective in the Balkans. This broader concept in the Balkans is what is being said. And in order to go ahead with this wider concept, we cannot rely on a wrong and badly interpreted agreement. We must try to improve the errors, since now that you have taken it, there is not much else to be done. And that can be done through the accession process. But, in order to do this, we must speak clearly and honestly and above all, and above all this obligation is up to the government. It cannot go from here and there, trying to trick the electorate and lead it through illusions in the shape of a vote. It must clearly say where it stands and what it represents in this political dialogue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be very honest with you. I see this whole process as a loss of a huge opportunity for national coexistence. We are a country that has suffered various amputations through the crisis. Let me say that I am the withdrawal of the Greek banking system from Eastern Europe and the Balkans. I feel them as a kind of amputation. We have lost influence, lost opportunities, lost jobs, lost things. All this must be regained with confidence, with a common national effort. But, in order to do this, the government needs to speak honestly. This government at this stage, in the four years that ruled the country, failed to reach this point. What I hope is that the Greek people, who soon, in seventy days' time, will be closer to the time - will express themselves and send this government to the opposition, then be able, in opposition to us, to come to a stage of self-awareness, so that the dialogue between the then government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Mitsotakis and the opposition of SYRIZA can be an honest dialogue for the good of the country, not like the dialogue that is taking place on the occasion of these agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. We will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Katrugalo. Immediately after that, Mrs Kollia - Tsarouha, the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, will follow. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much, Mr President. Yesterday the current fugitive, former Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia, proceeded to a detailed statement. He said: "Macedonia gave it all, lost name, identity and history. We became the generation of defeat and humiliation. Greece won the lottery." It is like seeing symmetrically reversed in a mirror what we have heard against the agreement by all those who consider it to be nationally harmful. How, then, does the fact that Mr. Mitsotakis sees in the mirror and face Gruevski's face there? It wasn't Mr. Mitsotakis. It does not concern the person of the President of the New Democracy. It concerns a strategic choice of the Party of Officers not to deal with this critical national issue in terms of national responsibility, but in terms of micro-political terms. He was a member of the national position, which he has united, and which decided to divide the people into so as not to divide his party, so that he would not displease that extreme side of his party that had never been relevant to the national position, which denounced Kostas Karamanlis as a douche when he was shaping it and now, unfortunately, he seems to identify the tone and the style of the New Democracy. That is why when one sees in Step a parliamentary representative of Mr Teddy's decency, it is indeed like seeing a representative from another party. Why is that critical? It is not just about the political features of the dialogue, it is about the possibility of national issues being able to form a national line. Indeed, since 1993, we have shaped it, since 2007, and then in a festive way, and we support it. If, on the contrary, they are the micro-party criteria, which every time they are a party to the opposition, will lead to this being differentiated from that national position, then we are actually undermining the country's ability to have a strong negotiating position abroad and as a direct side-effect at internal political level to have a political dialogue based on hypocrisy and inequality. You described as a triumph what happened in Bucharest, when the previous Foreign Minister rightly told you that the decision in Bucharest was followed by the judgment of the Court of Justice in The Hague, which judged our country as an international offender, that it violated Article 11(1) of the Interim Agreement, you dealt with it as if it were something of a elsson nature. The country which has as its flag and as its main support for its foreign policy, International Law, must be of little importance if an International Court of Justice, and indeed the International Court of Justice, considers it to be violating its international obligations. And you are saying that, for thirty years, you had not reached an agreement, as if it could be extended to the adjournment, not only to the detriment of the interests of the country, because of the objective situation that was being shaped, but also because we would have violated another international obligation, which we had with the 1993 resolutions and the Interim Agreement, to reach a definitive solution, and when we brought a solution, which not only serves the national position, but also improves it, because we have also achieved a revision of the Constitution which was not an element of what we were calling for on the ground, precisely because you thought we could not achieve it. The arguments you put forward were hypocritical and inexperienced again. Let's go to what we're talking about, joining NATO. What you have already said in Bucharest is not 'First solution, then'? Now we have voted, the Greek Parliament has ratified an agreement that resolves the matter. You have said that this solution does not satisfy you. Did you say you'd overthrow her? Will you cancel this deal? Don't you think so, too? Why is it reasonable that, if there is a solution to what you again considered to be a national 'first solution and then integration' line, do not follow? Isn't that new inconsistency and new hypocrisy? The whole web of your arguments is hypocritical, that we have not guaranteeed in advance guarantees to Turkey against the amendment of regulations that we do not consider to be in our interest in NATO. I asked you in committee, too, when you accepted Albania's membership of NATO, did you ask for something? Did you get a guarantee? I do not need to tell you, in relation to Albania, we did not only have the general topics, we also had the issue of our minority there. What extra bail did you get? What an extreme hypocrisy it is to give us up for something that you, when you were at the wheel of the country, did not do so, did not do so. Our logic is different. We believe that this agreement is a good one, not only because it responds to our national interest, but because it is balanced, it ensures a mutually beneficial solution in the region, which is a precondition for the duration and length of the agreement. Because, if a spirit of friendly cooperation does not prevail, not only between the two states - after all, apart from the name we never had to share with the next country - in the whole region of the Balkans, we would effectively dismiss the possibility of protagonists in a single economic area, where it is clear that we have a dominant role, but at the same time we would also deprive our country of the opportunity to be the guarantor of political stability and peace in the Balkans. Fortunately, unlike you, all political families in the European Parliament, apart from the extreme right, have recognized the courage and scope of this historic agreement. Apart from what I have just said, the fact that a long-term and bitter difference is being resolved, apart from the fact that our country is becoming an exporter of stability to the Balkans, the great upgrading of our diplomatic authority, the huge diplomatic capital we have produced from this agreement, will obviously use it where it is measured. New Democracy's general rapporteur accused us of submissiveness. I do not want to go into historical references and I do indeed want to discuss the points that can unite us in pursuing a national policy. Our party, however, has always been patriotic and was not a Prime Minister from our own space or a leader of our own party, the one who appealed to an American general and told him about the Greek Army: "Military, behold your army." [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And that was not an accidental political event. The lack of self-confidence of the Greek ruling class, the inability to have a self-confidential political hegemony always led to foreign protectors. There is indeed the day by night your own policy and ours. This is precisely what shows the essence of our multi-dimensional policy, both in relation to NATO and in relation to other international organisations. First of all, in relation to the accession of the neighbouring country to NATO, it is obvious that it is not our decision, it is a decision of its own government and it seems that one of the few things to which unanimity exists in the neighbouring country. Could we be the political guardians of this choice? And you blamed us for saying other things about NATO in the past, and now we're talking about it. I also said in my position in committee that another was NATO's role in the Cold War period in a bipolar world, but another is NATO's role and function in a multi-polar world. It is our foreign policy's guide to the need to promote our national interests by participating in all the agencies that can have a role for stability and security. Our primary option is to strengthen Europe's autonomy to have its own foreign policy and defence, if we really want Europe not to be a political dwarf on the world stage. That is why we are partners in the voices heard not to see the clause in Article 42(7) on promoting cooperation at defence level simply because we are taking threats and even threats that have a historical duration and a historical depth. And on this issue, then, the characteristic of our policy is the commitment to principles, the multidimensional nature that always tries to promote our national interests, the promotion of our political peace, friendship and cooperation, without considering that we have the potential to play cryptogenetic tendencies in our region, but with the ambition of being a stabilising factor, to transform the Balkans into a single economic area for economic and political cooperation. And the Embassy Agreement has just a big chapter, about half, dedicated precisely to this possibility of developing economic bilateral relations. And we have, beyond this effort, included very specific clauses for protecting our national interests in the future. Even today when we have the ratification by the House of the Accession Protocol, we will retain the right until the President of the Republic sends the ratification instrument to the guardian of the North Atlantic Treaty, which is the United States, to see if, as I believe it will, he applies the spirit and the letter of the agreement faithfully. Contrary to what you have said and discredited you, and the Commissioner responsible for enlargement matters, Mr Han, the agreement itself has never provided for anything but the possibility at every stage of the negotiations on the accession of the neighbouring country to the European Union if it starts in June, as we support, that we cannot monitor the progress of implementing the agreement. Because it is not just the Copenhagen criteria concerning democracy, the protection of the European acquis and the issues relating to good neighbourliness, which we obviously have the possibility of monitoring and highlighting if necessary our necessities in the negotiation if the other side fails to fulfil its obligations. If there is a fundamental difference in our foreign policy between us and the New Democracy in this matter is not so much the real place on the Macedonian, because I have told you and we are applying a complex name, erga omnes. Our main difference is that we are not a fearful force, nor a power of inertia. We want to give solutions to the problems, and we have not only proved this in our relations with the - in a few - northern Macedonia. For Sarah, why didn't you do something all these decades?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u258	What did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u259	We've set it up, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u260	They're growing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u261	Why? How much will the issues grow, Mr. Kumucaco? I read you the initial position of our ambassador, Mr Papoulia, in 1993 in the United Nations where he stated the need for a rapid and urgent solution to the problem. How was it possible for a rapid and urgent solution in 1993 not to be mature in 2019? And you know there is a key currency in policy that is credibility and honesty. If this is lacking in political dialogue, it is degraded to such a level that citizens are also losing their trust in the political system. At all these levels, then, we have tried to give samples of national responsibility on this issue and on the others. And I think that the Greek people will appreciate this and assess it, because we always have to take responsibility for history and not look for the temporary political gains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-four students and students and four educational sessions from the General School of Giannoulis Larissa. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, please, I would like to speak very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u264	Here you go, Mr. Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u265	First of all, what you are supporting for NATO, Minister, in 2008, in 2015. I don't think then there was the bipolar world and the cold war. In 1952, however, to which you referred, there was indeed a cold war when it was said: 'Here is your army.'
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u266	It was '45!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u267	And that's doubtful if it was said. What has certainly been said and even now that we have no cold war is towards the lenders, when all the public property in the CFS was given, you said: "Behold your monuments, behold your public property, behold the public property of the country." That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u268	The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mrs Kollia-Charouha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour, the good fortune of coming from the same law and the same place as the Admiral Constantine Karamanlis. Throughout my course as a Member for all these years I have tried, I believe, quite well, to serve the national interest. As we all know, the National Warlord has said, and rightly so, the post 'Greece belongs to the West' as the basis of our national strategy. He naturally meant it in the sense of our geopolitical and geostrategic alliances, as well as our cultural affinity with the peoples of the West and in any other sense. For Greece, like Macedonia, will belong to and belong to the Greeks. This latter was the most basic post of the nationwide ruler's entire course, as was every great politician who passed and left his positive print in our country. Greek citizens are the only owners of this place and the only ones who legalise every decision of ours. No misinterpretation, however much as it is approved by the international scene, legalises political triks with which we have today managed to dismiss our strongest diplomatic advantage vis-à-vis the state of Skopje, which is its admission to NATO under the stolen name of Macedonia, which is an integral part of our national heritage. It is obvious, therefore, and without many spins, that the Independent Greeks, while respecting the Greek people, categorically refuse to support Macedonia's accession to NATO. Only the Greek people can make such a decision. That is why we insist that a referendum is required, or at least that this decision is ratified by at least two thirds of the House. It is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to accept and impose this position of the Independent Greeks. The same applies to you former Members of the Independent Greeks who did not respect the agreement you made with your voters when they voted for you and preferred to stay in the positions of power. The same applies to you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, but you prefer to act on the ground too. Three times - three times, I stress - he did not accept the proposals of the Independent Greeks to block it together. History will, unfortunately, record you as those who tried to directly or indirectly impose an agreement against the will of the entire Greek people, without even realizing the historical risks posed by it. These historical dangers do not come from the language and the nationality of the neighbours, as New Democracy tries to raise as an excuse, but otherwise agrees with the tradition of the name "Macedonia". Their historical dangers arise in the granting of the name because it confirms the scepticism, which claims to have a right to real Macedonia. Ladies and gentlemen, you must first admit that our movement, ahead of Panos Kammenos, is what has worked hard to rekindle the alliance of our country with the most powerful countries of the West and to strengthen our national positions through it. We have often clashed with colleagues from the Left who have expressed an ideological position against the West without fundamental arguments. So it is very unpleasant today that we are called upon to explain to our own colleagues that all of this does not mean that we have to accept exactly what we are brought from the West, thus allowing traps that set up centres and centres. The ignorance of international geopolitical situations is evident from the fact that for many years you have based your political convictions on euphemism and fine words of reaction and resistance, but not on real facts. This is what has not allowed you to realize that dark interests exist in the West that under no circumstances care about Greece, but are intended to internationally impose the interests of a global elite, completely willing to trample people and people without second thought. The Independent Greeks have denounced this many times and have, unfortunately, been confirmed every time. The centres we are talking about are working on projects aimed at reducing Greek sovereignty and removing parts of our country, other times of our sacred soils and other times of our history and culture. I would like to stress that this is not a conspiracy, as it is not a conspiracy to deny us the British to return the Parthenon's marbles, as it is not conspiracy that the speculative activities of Soros businessman Soros to the detriment of sovereign states in the developing world and that he is almost directly involved in the Ambassadors' agreement. It is neither conspiracy nor the German Nazi plan of the Second World War to give Thrace to Bulgaria and much of Macedonia along with Thessaloniki in Serbia, to serve timeless geopolitical interests in the industrial magnificence class of Germany, which are well known to those who have an elementary perception of history. I would stress, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not going against the peoples, the Germans or the Skopje people. However, beyond any doubt, we can prove the existence of the designs by political and parapolitical centres that are not in line with Greek interests at all. These plans relate to the same energy and geopolitical objectives as they have always had and seek deregulation of the Balkans, redistribution of territories and sovereign rights to the detriment of their populations. These designs are designed to remove parts of Greece's EEZ, which will allow interests that move outside our country to exploit our national wealth. The aim of these plans is, unfortunately, served by the Ambassadors' Agreement and by the admission to NATO of a state that insists on its existence in historical data from another people. As I pointed out again in the House a few days ago, what will happen if, in the next elections in Skopje, the right-wing extreme nationalists like VMR come back? What happens if within NATO and right next to us is a nationalist government controlled by money laundering and extortion? We are living with it, ladies and gentlemen, with our neighbour from the East, Turkey, who, despite being our ally within NATO, has owned forty-five years a large part of the Republic of Cyprus. So we remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in politics and in alliances there are no stable interests or designs that are not capable of fraud. You will allow me to say something that makes me sad, but I want to say it. You know that well, after you drunken me too, Members of Parliament from our movement, who were voted on by the people with the commitment that they would not grant the name of Macedonia. So don't expect foreigners to respect you. They'll do the same. Every diplomat, every politician works for the interests of his own nation, his own country and his own state, and he does not care almost for the interests of others. This has unfortunately been demonstrated repeatedly in the years of the crisis, which our European partners have accepted with no objection the equitable economic punishment of Greek citizens, in order to impose their monetary policy, of course for their benefit. That is why it is important that we are no longer tied to a memorandum that imposes such policies. The Independent Greeks were the main pillar in trying to get Greece out of the memos. Today the sense of responsibility is that it requires us not to accept the admission of the small state of Skopje to NATO, especially under the libertarian name of northern Macedonia. We call on every patriot, even lately, to understand the great mistake he makes in supporting this agreement, directly or indirectly. No legitimacy exists for the Ambassadors' Agreement nor for the support of the NATO admission protocol. After all, the issue will not be closed even if the whole planet accepts the theft of our heritage. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, for a minute. The truth can't hide and he'll find the way to come back before us the years coming. No agreement will ever be able to hide that Macedonia is one and it is Greek. We therefore call on all patriotic forces, every fellow citizen who understands that only truth and justice can safeguard the peace and cooperation of the people and prevent the Skopje State's admission protocol to NATO. We, the Independent Greeks, will continue to fight in every way in and out of the Greek Parliament. We will fight to prevent any design against Greece and against the Greeks. And let us be sure, ladies and gentlemen, we will succeed, because only the truth lies on the right side of history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Collia-Charuha. Mr Theodorakis, you have asked for the floor following the end of the speeches by the parliamentary representatives. Will there be a problem if we give the floor first to Mr Koutsouba and then you follow?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u271	No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u272	Good. The speech is given by the Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA precursor to bring the country's neighbour's admission protocol to NATO is explained by the timetable set by this imperialist organization, since the process has to be completed by 13-14 February, when the NATO Foreign Ministers Council meets. It is a process that fully confirms the JRC's positions from the first moment on the resolution of the scop. It is confirmed, in other words, that the Tsipras-Zaev agreement was made to masturbate our neighbouring people in NATO to speed up Euro-Atlantic integration in the Western Balkans. It is revealed how hollow the various words of the government, which, trying to overthrow the agreement, reiterates that it is simply a question of resolving a bilateral issue without outside interference, that the entry of the neighbouring country into NATO is supposedly not something that concerns Greece, but is, again, an exclusive choice of the neighbouring country. And now, in addition to the timetable for the implementation of the agreement laid down by the naval agenda, as well as Article 2 which explicitly provides for NATO and the European Union, the admission protocol also comes to the Greek Parliament. It is even characteristic that the Prespecies Agreement will only be implemented after the ratification of the protocol by Greece, that is to say, when the neighbour's accession process to NATO begins. It is simply confirmed that the government is the best dealer in the United States of America in the Balkans and the wider region. That is why NATO officials, the European Union, the US representatives, the American Ambassadors, are not hiding their joy, and they have taken the initiative to welcome the ratification of the agreement by Parliament and at the same time when SYRIZA officials were ridiculed on a daily basis in front of the Greek people, saying that this is an agreement with anti-imperialist content. So the government can no longer hide that the agreement is another link between the imperialist arrangements in our region. They are arrangements that throw oil into the fire of competition between the USA and Russia, making our country a great magnet of new risks in the context of the escalation of confrontation. These developments put the naval nature of the agreement in the first place and annul the Government's attempt to degrade it. Everyone now understands that SYRIZA is stepping up his attempt to rinse out the imperialist alliance. After the Prime Minister's compliments at Trump, he calls on the people to say and thank you for taking the lead in strengthening NATO, restoring all the rustuous arguments about NATO being a factor of peace and security, peace and friendship with its neighbours. And since we are talking about Trump, you know very well that your American friends are threatening openly - to speak clearly in here - preparing open military intervention in Venezuela along with their allied governments in Latin America and the European Union. Of course, the United States and their allies do not have to try very hard to justify open intervention within a country. We now know how the interventions are being prepared. Our people have gained rich experience. She remembers very well and the lies she said at the time to make the bombings in Yugoslavia and also the lies about Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and the debatable lies about Syria, which her people are living the drama of war, uprooting, refugee. Our people remember all the pretexts they achieved one by one. When did the suffering for the rights of minorities catch them, when they discovered weapons of mass destruction, when they lifted the flag of supposedly fighting terrorism. And then, after countries had been levelled, after they had been murdered, peoples were torn apart, after they had redecorated the borders with the blood of these peoples, they were revealed that all this was air torn apart, that none of them were. Of course, they were not hurt by the suffering for the peoples of these countries, because the governments of these peoples were mainly not entirely in line with the economic and geopolitical interests of the United States, NATO, the European Union. That is the absolute truth, whether you like it or not you like that. The position of the JRC's authorities is clear and time-consuming. Only the people of each country are competent to choose which president and which government they will have. And no one has the right to intervene and to point to a people what needs to be done and much more to intervene. One can disagree as much as one wants with a regime, with economic, social policy and a government's foreign policy. It cannot, however, tolerate foreign imperialist forces threaten by intervention and recognise manikins they have promoted. And here, gentlemen of SYRIZA, give you a hypocrisy recital again. And we are addressing you, because the rest of us know them and over time have been placed on these issues. No matter how much one searches your officials' statements, for example for Venezuela, he will not find a single reference to the United States of America, which is leading in this story, even threatening military intervention. And hypocrisy is even greater after the statements made by your Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the European Union is founded on its efforts to intervene in the interior of Venezuela, through a form of international commission with countries such as Spain, which have already recognised Guido as President. The Europe of Sanchez, Costa and all these social democrats, who are first and best in the so-called 'progressive front' that you want to build in Europe, are the first to run to support the coup of the Americans in Venezuela along with the people's party, neoliberals, other fascists and far-rights in the region. This is how your progress begins, with open interfering in internal countries. This is a real challenge by the government, an insult to the thousands of victims of imperialist interventions, wars which the US, NATO have waged against the peoples of the Balkans, the Middle East and elsewhere. It is a challenge at the same time when every move by NATO, added to its previous one, confirms that it is also being prepared for military conflicts. How security can people in the Balkans feel about strengthening these plans, when NATO's last military exercises with tens of thousands of soldiers, including Greece, are essentially referring to war preparations? What stability is ensured by NATO to declare that it prepares the so-called four triads, i.e. rapid intervention forces in a battle order? What peace is ensured for the people by the doctrine of NATO’s first nuclear blow? What kind of stability is it that is ensured at a time when the US, NATO, the European Union opens up border-change issues in the Balkans, such as between Serbia, Kosovo, Albania, confirming that the arrangements bearing their seal are drugged and prepare for subsequent crises and tensions? The Embassy Agreement also forms part of these plans. That is why it includes whole life the seeds of aluterism, such as the ones that opened the blood cycle in the Balkans, which does not say to close. The security guaranteed by NATO and the European Union have been tested by the peoples of the Balkans with the division of Yugoslavia, the continued subjugation of minority and nationalist issues, the formation of state-protected states, the creation of huge bases of war in the region, such as Kosovo. NATO's stability has been tested by the Greek people in Greek-Turkish relations, the constant question of sovereign rights with the blessings of this imperialist alliance that does not recognize borders in the Aegean. This stability is also being tested with the other ally, Albania, whose bourgeois order continues its challenges in the context of its grand idealism for the great Albania. The government's guide to the roles it takes is not security for the people and relations of solidarity with neighbouring peoples, but the geostrategic upgrading of the domestic ruling class, the search for new areas of profit for its interests. This objective, described by the pompous expressions of the various SYRIZA executives about Greece's leadership power in the Balkans, objectively carries the involvement of these imperialist designs, making it the other side of the anti-popular invasion of the working class and popular strata with all these anti-popular laws of the memorandums, which are full power. To look at all this more thoroughly, in particular, because your catechism really doesn't have a bottom, unfortunately. New American arrangements have been undertaken by the SYRIZA Government as soon as it is done with northern Macedonia and its NATO membership. After all, the cartoon shots he threw for a model of Prespecies in the settlement of the Cypriot Government SYRIZA are aimed at it. The Greek Prime Minister's comment at his meeting with the Cypriot President last week was no accident. His statements essentially refer directly to a more active intervention by the American factor in the negotiations, just as was the case with the Ambassadors' agreement. Such a development will lead to great adventures to the Cypriot people, as it is not possible for those who have invaded the Turkish invasion and tolerated forty-five years the Turkish occupation, to be a factor of a fair and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem. This is also demonstrated by the accession of Cyprus to the European Union, in which the problem is also perpetuated and a diplomatic solution is sought to the essence of two states. The bazaar for the Cyprus island is part of the puzzle of arrangements in the south-eastern Mediterranean, which is a magnet of geopolitical and investment plans and competitions. Here the SYRIZA Government is taking missions to defend and promote these interests. Fully militant on the naval objective of maintaining Turkey in the Western camp and restoring Russian influence in the wider region, the SYRIZA Government claims an upgraded role for the Greek large capital in an area where competitive plans are cross-checked on fronts such as Syria and the Middle East as a whole. Its aim is for US planning to proceed and through there to secure the role of US preference partner in the region. In this direction Greece takes an active role, as was seen at the 5th Summit of the Mediterranean States of the European Union, which took place about ten, about days ago in the Cypriot capital, hierarchy of major projects in the strategic energy sector. We recall that the French and Italian monopolies retain rights to research and extraction in the Cypriot EEZ and therefore are directly involved in the design and bazaar for the way and the way gas is channelled to the markets. Thus, at no random in the Nicosia Declaration, which was adopted, it is stressed that the objective of energy security remains of paramount importance and is recognised that the region of the western and eastern Mediterranean is a strategic corridor for the supply of gas and electricity through gas infrastructures, such as the EAST MED pipeline. It is more certain that the settlement of the Cyprus issue, based on the dichotomy solutions that are firmly on the table, is high on the Americans' agenda with a look at Turkey's claims to ensure an increased role in the exploitation and transport of hydrocarbons in the Eastern Mediterranean. That is why NATO's greater involvement in the negotiation process is being promoted in order to be an umbrella in a future security system in Cyprus that will facilitate the settlement of the Cyprus issue. From this point of view, it is not surprising that the Greek Government is developing a link to closer cooperation between NATO and Cyprus and the more active presence of the imperialist alliance in the region, with military infrastructure, bases and instruments available for this purpose. Furthermore, the fact that the Prespecies Agreement is being forged by the government and all its partners as a model for other arrangements also precedes developments - apart from the Cyprus agreement - and in the Serbian bazaar with the Kosovo Albanians, which soon seems to be entering its final phase. Already the terrain exchange scenarios are on the table with a risk that Haelo's bourgeois will be opened for other border changes in the region, not without tensions and conflicts, with a risk of generalization. For example, the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina, a state of mosaic, where the Serbian element is already claiming greater autonomy. At the same time, strengthening the Albanian element is buttoned by the large Albanian plan, which is at least devastated by the United States and is already going on with the abolition of borders between Albania and Kosovo. We recall that the promotion of naval planning with the Prespecies Agreement was the seal of the Albanian parties there which collide with the Social Democrat Zaev. Both the situation in the future northern Macedonia, where the seeds of allotment - nationalism, as well as Albanian mafia can at all times be actively exploited in the context of these plans and competitions, as has been done many times in the past. Greece, as a geopolitical hinge of the United States in the region, has undertaken to make a decisive contribution so that all their countries and peoples enter the NATO and European Union jungle. The countries that are not NATO members in the region are Serbia, but it also maintains strong links with Russia, but it also cooperates with NATO, while a stable goal is to join the European Union, as is Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is outside NATO and the European Union, Montenegro, which is in NATO, but not in the European Union, as is Albania. This, however, is presented by the government as the new "ELDORADO" for business groups, which will bring great prosperity and security to the Balkans with guarantees from NATO and the European Union, in fact hides very great risks for both the Greek and the other peoples. NATO's so-called stability and security is a fraud, if one notices the ever-increasing military preparation with the monastic gymnastics that surround Russia, with the naval doctrine of the first nuclear attack, with the so-called anti-missile shield, by converting NATO or the autonomous military structures developed by the European Union, such as rapid intervention units, into world guards. Experience from the dirty role of the United States, NATO, the European Union in the Balkans and, above all, the modern naval doctrine, which keeps the fuse on throughout the region, must be a criterion for our people's development and anti-imperialist struggle against Greece's involvement in dangerous designs. Ladies and gentlemen, the exchanges of visits with Erdogan in Athens in December 2017 and Tsipras in Istanbul just the day before yesterday were advertised very much. The government newspapers have also hosted, and now, titles for clean words to reach agreement. SYRIZA officials were speaking and talking about a new start in the relations between the two countries, a historic visit and others about it. The reality, however, disproves this government propaganda every time. We remind you - because we do not forget - that Erdogan here, from Athens, has restored the position of revising the Losani Treaty, which is the basis for determining the borders between Greece, Turkey and the wider region. He defended the strategy of the grey zones in the Aegean Sea, the occupation of Cyprus, overall upgrading the claims of the Turkish bourgeoisie class. Since then they've been reintroducing them all the time. The government hides the truth, as the New Democracy and PASOK governments have done, even using the same majorities of diplomatic capacity, with the buttons, the jebes, as a means of solving serious problems, covering all the deep causes together, seeking to eliminate the targets, the responsibilities of the leading classes in the region, the role of the Americans and NATO in the region. Turkish border violations and the tensions caused are not circumstantial. It is the result of planning, they have continued and escalation, it operate cumulatively and it is the headline for new crises. As much as they try to make us forget about it, they fail to do so, because they keep patronages in the collective memory of the Greek people and the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in 1974 and the crisis of 1976 and 1987, which were then caused by the investigations of Hora and Sismik respectively for oil deposits in maritime areas, which the Greek governments consider as part of the Greek continent and the crisis of the Imnes in Genoa in 1996, which brought the two countries into the brink of war conflict. It was then that Prime Minister Simitis said that the notorious "Thank you to the United States", which took on a mediation role at that time, which immediately led to the unacceptable PASOK Government's agreements with the Turkish Government, speaking of Turkey's legitimate and vital interests in the Aegean, as well as then, of outstanding border disputes between Greece and Turkey. This is important experience that is also linked to current developments and to the next day, much more so that US intervention is aimed at a new compromise for the coexistence of the Aegean and Cypriot maritime zones. The myths cultivated by SYRIZA and his various parrots for the Prespecies Agreement and the celebrations of peace and stability in the Balkans, following the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to NATO, are being shot down by the situation in the region, the bazaars for border change. They are also flawed in the course of the relations between Greece and Turkey, which have been members of NATO since 1952, and are also working together on Turkey's accession process to the European Union. Many agreements have been concluded for the benefit of capitalists - both sides on both sides - but tensions are perpetuating. These are also specific, although they want to make us forget about them or even degrade them as problems, as issues. It remains the casus belli if Greece extends the yacht zone, the territorial waters from 6 to 12 nautical miles, in accordance with the provisions of the 1982 International Convention on the Law of the Sea. Thousands of Turkish violations have occurred for many years to date. The qualitative element is the continuous time-consuming questioning and violation of borders and the tensions that these cause, depending on the timing, operational planning, the nature of the incident and movements of the Greek Armed Forces, the level of risk of each involvement, the risk of an accident and so many others. We are also warned by the dozens of Turks Navtex or Notam, announcing the commitment of the air or marine space of Greece or Cyprus to military exercises, to research, drilling, to hydrocarbons. These moves have been upgraded in recent times, as shown by the end - beside the research ship "BARBARBAROS" and "POTHITIS" - and this can be a source of tensions that go beyond the established ones. The situation is complicated by the agreement concluded by the Turkish state-owned oil company with the authorities of the pseudo-state for carrying out such investigations. These include various statements by Erdogan, government officials and Turkish urban opposition about 'blue home', threats to the use of military forces and interventions in Thrace. Alongside these events, there are interventions by the Turkish state in the wider region. We must also not forget that. Apart from Cyprus, it makes military operations and maintains a base in Syria and is currently preparing for military intervention in Manbij, threatening the Kurdish population. He has fifteen camps of the Turkish army in northern Iraq that operates within the country. It has military bases in Somalia near the strategic Gulf of Aden and the closest to the Red Sea and the Indian Ocean. It has a base in Qatar with five thousand soldiers and facilities for warships and aircraft and more. It looks forward to bases in Sudan. The Turkish presence in the Balkans is economically, politically, militaryly, Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and elsewhere. And all of this is neither make news nor general military operations or military bases from air or electronic simple systems. It is also an army and active presence in these countries, in fact, for a NATO member country next to Greece. The same, of course, seeks, from the outset, to promote Greece as well. The goal of converting Turkey into an energy hub is promoted both in cooperation with the European Union for the transport of gas to Europe via the Tap and Russia with the Turkish Stream pipeline. Turkey's economic cooperation with Russia is also being strengthened. The construction of the Turkish nuclear power station, Audiyu, and all together through opposition, has been jointly intervened in the developments in Syria. At the same time, the purchase of the Russian missile system S-400 that has caused NATO and US reaction, with which Turkey negotiates the market for modern F-35 aircraft and the bazaar has entered the US missile system Patriot. The US-Turkey relations are traditional and have been used as a peak against the Soviet Union at the time. In recent years, however, the contradictions between the two countries have increased. Russian-Turkish relations, US support for Syrian Kurds and equipment for the 'People's Units of Defense', as they are said, have led to new controversies. Peoples, of course, don't stay with crucifixed hands. The direction of wrestling is shown by our position. And if we say this, it is to see the whole geostrategic game, to see the whole of the contradictions, to see where this strategy of the Greek Government is, which has quickly been promoted in these last four years, that the government of the so-called left is in power and our people are to decide and become a key criterion in their struggle. For example, the Communist Party of Turkey and the Communist Party of Greece have jointly expressed their strong concern about developments in both the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans and have opposed any case of warm military involvement. They have expressed opposition to border violations in the Aegean Sea and to the question of international treaties that have determined the borders. The JRC and the Turkish KK support the position for non-change of borders and the conditions that cleanse them and strive for unblocking the two countries from imperialist planning, for returning military forces from nato and other imperialist missions outside the border. They demand NATO to leave the Aegean. And you understand what this means to the Turkish communists, to the Turkish people who are fighting under the conditions of a Erdogan government. The peoples of Turkey and Greece, like all the peoples of the Balkans, have nothing to share. They have an interest in claiming to live in peace, fighting for their common future, for the abolition, ultimately, of any exploitation and barbarism. Experience has shown that the participation of our countries in NATO, the extension of this military imperialist centre across the region, is aimed at the peoples and peace and the communist parties, the labor parties, the real anti-imperialist, peaceful movements, continue to fight for the release of our countries from NATO. The European Union is a transnational association of capital and is constantly becoming dangerous to people's interests. All these parties are against the accession of new countries to the European Union and we support the right of each people to fight for the release of these imperialist associations, of course, which, as you know, is fighting over time and consistently with the JRC. We are addressing together the peoples of all the countries in the region. We call on them to strengthen the fight against this system that gives rise to economic crises, poverty, unemployment, refugee, cultural degradation, interventions and imperialist wars. We call on the strengthening of efforts, in unity of the working class, in a social alliance with all those oppressed by the monopolies of populous strata, to develop the struggle for labour power, which is nowadays more necessary than ever. This is the genuine patriotic and deeply internationalist attitude of the communists, workers, peoples in the region. Workers need to make a selection and attitude of all these developments, to see at the same time that around these hot issues there is the absolute convergence between all urban parties in here, that in the face of these endeavors that smell of barbecue, the'red lines' become the dust, the canopy divisions between progress and maintenance raised by SYRIZA. There must be a criterion for people who feel left-wing, progressive, radical, democrat, this miserable attempt to unravel imperialist planning by the government, the role of a soldier who takes on to be caught not only by our own people, but also by other peoples around - around NATO and the European Union. It must strengthen the power of opposition to the country's involvement in these plans, in association with the Communist Party of Greece, the only political force that really fights in this direction, clean and clear. It is clear, of course, that we are voting against today. We say a huge 'no' to the integration of the neighbouring country into the military, warring, murderous organization - NATO mechanism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u274	Mr Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u275	I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, because on my left I have a governmental formation, which will vote in favour of a naval choice, but at the same time he himself...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u276	Not everyone on the left!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u277	You are right, but you realise that I am addressing SYRIZA’s companions rather than you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u278	I'm saying it for the record.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u279	I say, on my left, that I have a governmental form, which will vote for us in the nano-selections, but at the same time this same government formation continues to applaud the Maduro regime. I am surprised that on my right I have an opposition formation, which supports NATO's policy both yesterday and tomorrow and always, but today it will vote 'no' to the integration of a small Balkan country into NATO. I am amazed, but most of all I sympathize with the Greek people, who are trying to understand exactly what is happening in their country. Governments that rely on prosecuting MPs, MPs who change parties and view parties depending on the day and time and politicians who are guided only by pollsters and advertisers. No beginnings, no nucleus, and I'm very afraid there's not even a spine. Whatever it is, it's enough that this "whatever" is translated into noodles! Should NATO be extended to the Balkans? This is an old, timeless question. SYRIZA 'yes', New Democracy 'no'. And then we wonder why people have lost all confidence in politicians. I would like here, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to the wars of our movement, which are very much wondering why we voted for the Prespecies Agreement and why we are voting today on the admission of this small Balkan country to NATO. They suggest that they do not know official positions, personal statements, conference and institution decisions. And because the conspiracy theories now with Netflix are bread cheese, every bitter man writes his own crazy script. Be careful: What pressures was exerted by the American embassy? What role did the ambassador, Piat, play in this vote of the agreement? Yes, listen. The first irrationality: Spreading that someone is pushing someone to do what they have already decided to do and which he has already stated in many public statements that he will do. But let us overlook this logical gap and go to another thought. If we accept, ladies and gentlemen, that an embassy is pressing Greek politicians to say yes to an agreement, then - I imagine - it is reasonable to assume that another embassy, which wants 'no', is pushing some other Greek politicians accordingly. Unless you tell us the most communist thing, only the Americans are pressing and everyone else is just making ties and lighting candles. So if everyone is pressing, if all embassies are pressing, those who voted 'no' did, because they heard the Russian Embassy? I'd advise some New Democracy executives to change Rotta. Because as they take them to the next anniversary of the Polytechnic to protest "soft bracelet" Skourlet and Georgiadis together, outside the Embassy of the United States, "killers of the American peoples". But let's get back to reality. The river doesn't want Balkans with black holes. Northern Macedonia must enter NATO. Let's not leave the facts to their luck. Let's take initiatives and get out of the deal. Bring them together, work together, help them, provide them with military training and intensify our commercial and business activity. Do you really disagree, gentlemen of the New Democracy, with NATO expanding to Balkans? Do you disagree? Have you said that before? Oh, no. Others are the target, others are the purpose. You stay white and uninfected and others can get the chestnuts out of the fire again for the country. And you continue to water Greeks with a blind nationalism. But there are no European cards. There is no Europe of nationalism and there is no Europeanist, because it is writing about the populism of others. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] You insist, gentlemen, that you have the first issue on your agenda of selling Macedonia, as you say. You insist on denying a choice of peace, security and stability in the Balkans. Watch me. You are asked, say, about the vote of children who have left in the years of the crisis abroad, and you are turning it into the sellout of Macedonia. They are asking you about Members of Parliament's health. You are talking again about the sale of Macedonia. Allow me, then, with all honesty and genuine questions to ask you this: consider this agreement to be disastrous. You consider this agreement to be harmful to Greek interests. Then why don't you do it self-evidently, why don't you just make it clear to the Greek people and soon that as the next government you will place on the first day of veto in the accession process of our neighbours in the European Union?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u280	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u281	No one has said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u282	Tell the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u283	For Christ's sake! No one has said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u284	Listen to me, Mrs. Bakoyannis, Mr. Kumucako. You haven't said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u285	You say things that don't apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u286	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u287	Listen to me for a second and answer. Tell the Greek people, who are invited to continue complaining about the Prespecies Agreement, that you, as a government, will not allow any country to enter the European family that will bear the name "Macedonia". What do you think? You say, "We will use the veto right, if and if necessary." That's what you're saying. Is that right? We can say that, not you and I will explain why. We who have voted for the Presidencies' Agreement can say that we will monitor its implementation and if it is violated, we will veto. But someone who says or even you who say a priori that this agreement is treacherous, that it is a concession of sovereignty, must, according to common sense, today and not once, not if it is violated, but today when you call it a treacherous agreement, tell those who follow you that Northern Macedonia will not enter the European Union. That would be the consistent epilogue in your national - nationalist, in my view - a narrative. So say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Theodorakis, no one said such things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u289	Ladies and gentlemen, raising walls is very easy. The hard thing is building bridges and forming alliances. Potami does not bet on confrontation with neighbouring countries, on the exacerbation of nationalism and on embodiment. Today, especially today, when the people in Kosovo and Serbia, who, a few years ago, have shed blood on each other, are preparing to make painful compromises, even trade in territories, are petty and incomprehensible by the European family to insist that hostility should be maintained for a country that has never threatened us and that will never threaten us. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, the river that I represent, the river to which I lead... [[Noise in the Chamber]] "What River?" you asked. I will try not to respond to the challenges. The parties, you know, are not dispersed with Members' relocations. The parties are voted on by the Greek people and dismantled if the Greek people do not vote. To sum up, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Potami which I represent, the Potami which continues to exist, states in mind the consequences of the parliamentary laws, but in particular the laws of physics - because we have here - that it will insist on this House, but also on the next House to defend the logic and politics and, in particular, the citizens who supported it and the citizens who continue to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u290	The President of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Michaloliakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I have to say to everyone a good and bad news. The good news is that all channels in full agreement with the so-called "constitutional bow" have ruled out Golden Dawn. The bad news is that the people have not ruled out the Golden Dawn, which remains the country's third political power, in the face of the envy, devotion, the curses of all political parties here in this House. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Of course, before I refer to the subject of today's sitting, I have to repeat that this 151-member government majority is not just a majority - Frankenstein or a government - a raven, but, after the statement by the six Members, it is also a government and a majority - a parrot. For the first time we have multi-purpose MPs who belong to another party in the morning, and at night they vote and give their confidence to the government. Therefore, 50 percent of a member of the alleged majority do not express the popular feeling, do not express the majority of the people. You're telling us fascists, but if you're democrats, you should immediately call elections. You are not representing the majority of the people. Of course, in all of this morning, we had another demonstration of political culture, of good cooperation between all the political forces of this House and the opposition to unconstitutionalism, which the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group presented. I will repeat, not to the ears of unheard, but to the Greek people, by this unique public step I have, Article 28 of the Constitution, which says that in order to serve a great national interest and to promote cooperation with other states, they can be recognised by treaty or agreement to institutions of international organizations provided for in the Constitution. And it describes this article here, precisely what the Prespecies Agreement is, but also today's ratification. And he says, "For the adoption of a law that ratifys this treaty, a three-fifths majority (3/5) of the total number of Members is required", that is, a hundred and eighty votes which the New Democracy refuses should be given in order to pass this thing. We made another suggestion. And Mr. Kammenos, I think he made this proposal. But, Mr. Kammenos, you had to leave spring. Then the Prespecies Agreement wouldn't have passed. That's my opinion. And I'm telling you not as a descendant of 'comitantes', as you said in your speech, but as a descendant of Macedonians, because in every village of Mani there are two or three Macedonians in every village of Mani! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We have also tabled a motion for a referendum. At the doors of the MPs, this thing went to listen to the Greek people. No answer. And the responsibilities of the New Democracy are great in that respect. Unfortunately, you do not commit to canceling the deal. In fact, you also put various precursors, your state, professors, who remind us of 'the teachers three and the paw', who say that on the basis of the 1969 Vienna Treaty you cannot cancel the treaty. Are you serious? Do you know how many conditions have been cancelled since 1969? I will, however - because today's meeting concerns a national issue - the Prime Minister's visit to Turkey. It was August 15, 1996, on the day of 15, when the lad with the cigarette in his mouth, trying to download a Turkish flag, left his dry breath, Solomon Solomon. Natural and moral author of his murder by Kinan Akin, who is pending an international arrest warrant by INTERPOL, which has indeed led the European Parliament to adopt a decision requiring Turkey to cooperate in taking all necessary measures to arrest Kinan Akin. There is nothing Turkey has done. And only one day before the Greek Prime Minister's visit to Turkey, we had the proclamation of EUR 700,000 the head of eight Turks, to whom Greek justice - and to a maximum extent - has given political asylum. We are talking about full contempt for Greek national sovereignty, as if Greece were a Far West, where the hunters of acceding and starting to seek heads. No answer from the Prime Minister to this insult, which has been made to our national sovereignty. In fact, at the joint press conference, Erdogan put the issue of the election of mufts of Thrace, with a courageous Turkish minority, with the operation of the Theological School of Halki. And he lied - we all saw it through our television screens - that the Theological School of Halki was closed in 1971 because he had few students. And the Greek Prime Minister did not answer that it was closed by law forced in 1971! Unfortunately, in the fatal doctrine of Greek-Turkish friendship, followed by all governments, the righteous of Hellenism are sacrificed. Mr. Tsipras, speaking at the Theological School of Halki, said attributes: "I firmly believe that both religions and minorities, the Muslim minority in Greece and the Greek minority in Turkey, must be not a field of conflict and objection but bridges between our peoples." So, at the same fate, the Muslim minority in Greece, which numbered more than a hundred thousand, was put on the same fate as the non-existent Greek minority in Turkey today, unexistent because it wanted the Turkish state with persecution, pogroms, with the top one in September 1955. So let's see what happens with Constantinople and how the Turks did, literally, an ethnic cleansing. According to official Turkish figures, in 1477 Constantinople numbered sixteen thousand three hundred twenty - four households. These are according to Top Cappi's files. Of these, only 60% were Muslims. In other words, then, a few years after the Algeus, Istanbul had a population of 40%. Let's go to 1914, just before World War I. The Muslim population of the city was only five hundred sixty thousand, while the Greeks were more than two hundred thousand, in a city that wasn't even a million. After 1923 and the Treaty of Lausanne more than two hundred thousand Greeks were allowed to remain in Turkey. Most of them in Istanbul. How many have left today? According to estimates in 2008 of the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, three to four thousand. According to the United Nations, the number of Greeks in Istanbul is one thousand eight hundred and twenty - six. Just a thousand and twenty-six people in a city of 14.3 million. If this isn't ethnic cleansing, what is it? Not a word from the Greek Prime Minister. And before the visit, however, Turkish government spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said that “We are looking for Tsipras to find them”, mentioning even the Turkish, as he called it, a minority of Thrace. Regarding the Prime Minister's visit, the valid journalist Kyra Adam wrote: "In the Aegean co-management leads the visit Tsipras to Ankara and the agreement on uncontrolled Turkish flights." And he writes attributes: "The Turkish side has multiple official statements, mainly with permanent and systematic military actions against Greek sovereignty, put its full agenda in the Aegean Sea. From the beginning of the year until today, with two hundred two diplomatic and corresponding military actions, Ankara has occupied the whole Eastern Aegean from the 25th mediterranean and east, turning the Aegean into concrete arms of Turkish territory. This is the sad reality to which, unfortunately, the Prime Minister of Greece has not responded. He did not even say a word about the casus bellilli, which is still valid and has been voted on by the Turkish National Assembly. He did not say a word about Greece's sovereign rights in the Aegean. He didn't say a word about Turkish aggression and violations. Instead, they triumphantly said the air fights are stopping. Aerial battles stop means we leave the Aegean undisturbed vine. But the government should know that in this country there are still Greeks who will not give the Aegean to the Turks in any case, who will resist all these planets, deceptive doctrines of Greek-Turkish friendship. Greek-Turkish friendship doesn't exist, it's a fairy tale. The Greeks have fought with the Turks a thousand years since the battle of Manjiquert until today. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And because there has been mention of traitors and you are curious about the motto that some people write in Macedonia that "democracy betrayed Macedonia", I do not believe that, people did. But when you say "the junta sold Cyprus", what happened? They weren't faces? It was Arapakis, Bonanos, the Banos, who made him a minister, gentlemen of the New Democracy. These were the military ones who sold Cyprus in 1974.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u292	The candy... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u293	The caramel would be to open the Cyprus file - do not murmur, Mr Kumucako - to find out who they were. Spiliotopoulos was your Minister, who said that "I was driving Phantom and if they let me go to Cyprus, it would be a different chance". Who ordered Spiliotopoulos not to go to Cyprus as a Phantom pilot at that time? I come to the Macedonian, first created by the Bulgarians, then the Communist International and then NATO. And we recognized Yugoslavia and all of them condoning democracy - the falsification - Macedonia, at the pressure of the Anglo-American people. And it was NATO, the American, who, on November 3, 1950, became Prime Minister Sophocles Venizelos, prioritised the recognition of Yugoslavia on his agenda. And it was NATO that forced us to give the Muslim minority to the Turks by imposing the Turkish alphabet, the Latin. And it was NATO that left Cyprus in 1974. And it was NATO in the Imian crisis, in 1996, which led to the subjugation of Greek flags from national sovereign territory. In these days we have the mobilisations of farmers, which are suffocated by tax burdens, from the cost of oil. And all this was decided in the Memorandum of August 2015, which you signed together PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA. For us, the farmer is the natural patriot, who lives next to his parents' residence, next to the graves of his ancestors, who never becomes a cosmopolitan, feathery and unblemished ideologies of Marxist or liberal. That is why, and contrary to the measures imposed by the anti-grass governments, we believe that the debts of Greek farmers should be deleted, because only then will the Greek rural economy be pushed forward. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I declare that the Golden Dawn will be next to the farmers who sees it as the last line of defence against an anti-national and anti-popular policy. And that is why we welcome the rural mobilisations, which have blue flags against the workers' and rural movement. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The Embassy Agreement brought today's meeting. The New Democracy says they've been produced fait accompli. On the issue of the name which he does not consider to be major, I will say this because we are all talking about Venezuela. You all know her, not Venezuela officially. It's called Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. No one says it, as North Macedonia will not say. Golden Dawn says no Skopje entrance to NATO. And we say that for us there is no today and there will never be a state called North Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u294	Thank you. Please, the President of the Union of Centres, Mr Leventis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u295	Good evening, Mr President, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. One card was in Greece to force Skopje to change the name, the NATO paper. This paper is being expelled today. We're tearing this paper today. We won't have any more paper. I do not know if the Chamber has understood this, that there was a paper with which we were pressing Skopje to make some concessions. Now, there's no need to make retreats. They win everything. I heard Mr. Katrugalo, the Minister, who mentioned the words of a Skopje official who said that "we lost our name, we lost our identity, we lost...". And after they lost all this, Minister, why did they vote for the press? If they're lost in Skopje, why did they vote? You don't wonder why, while they lost everything that the Skopje official numbered, why did they still consent to the Prespecies? Because they won the maximum. They won the name. They won Greece all. Because Macedonia is not a region of Greece, it is Greece itself. When you signed the Prespes, underestimate what Macedonia is. Macedonia is Greece itself, Minister. It's not part of Greece, it's Greece itself! You underestimated it and it writes negative history, they will open wounds to the future for your attitude. Mr. Tsipras went to Turkey and for two and a half hours he closed himself with Erdogan and discussed it. Outgoings said they set a road map for restarting stagnant Greek-Turkish relations. Road map! We didn't know what they talked about. At one time, George Black had made twenty-six Security Council decisions condemning Turkey. He was Vice-President of national government. When Karamanlis won the election, with that 53%, leaving the government, George Black told Karamanlis: "We have achieved these things, Security Council decisions that compel Turkey to leave Cyprus. Don't agree to make bilateral contacts. Only through the UN, because the Turks reap the opportunity and make claims." At each Greek-Turkey summit, the Turks find the opportunity and place their claims. And this is bad for Greece, for her Prime Minister to sit and listen to the claims - absurd and immoral - of the Turks. We did not follow George Mavros' recipe, talk through the UN alone, only through the Security Council and the prime ministers began to speak directly in dialogue with Turkey. Turkey keeps raising the same issues: the Aegean Sea, the islands, the continental shelves, all from the beginning to the end, all the matter. They're getting practical, and he's got the minutes that he's putting them. What do we get? Are we winning something from this dialogue? Has the Turk ever retreated into anything? The Turkish karadoki is waiting for us to find weakness at the time, whether to impose grey zones on the Aegean, either to complete the cursation of Cyprus or the AEZ to succeed. Did Mr. Tsipras really think that a meeting with Erdogan would achieve something? Does the Turk conform to anything all these years in the decades that have passed? Here came the Turk and started to say against the Treaty of Lausanne. I think that this is clear: we must not have a dialogue since they are badly intent, they have thoughts about our sovereign rights. Greece is not asking for anything, but it is obviously not prepared to grant anything. So there is no point in dialogue between the Turkish Government and the Turkish authorities. The New Democracy says: 'Always it is good to meet and engage in dialogue'. All these years, with the "non-war", with those of Ozal - will you remember them - the bars of Karamanlis, the young man, the chips - I don't know, was it Giorgakis? - Has anything happened? Did we have any real progress in Greek-Turkish? They are ruthless, they want our islands, they want the Aegean, they want our oil, they want everything. It's them! And the mufts that we changed to them sometime ago, they want to be elected so that Erdogan has the upper hand who will elect, so that these mufts, elected by Muslims, ours, Thrace, raise the issue of Evros' independence. Do you doubt that's where the Turk is taking it? Why did we change the mufts? The previous mufties were legitimate. Why did we change them and immediately then the Turk released our two soldiers? Has Turk become law-abiding and freed our soldiers? He's had them all these months. Why did he release them later? Has Turkey become a rule of law? Step by step it wants the election of mufts by the Muslim community of Thrace. That is what Turkey is seeking. And what does he trade for? To start again - it says - the School of Halki. In other words, the Ecumenical Patriarch's right to have a school exchanged it with what the Turks demand, to start the trend of independence for Evros. This exchange is essentially a cover-up, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u296	What dreams do you see?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u297	What do you want now? What are you protesting, guys?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u298	I'm not complaining. I wonder!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u299	There's outside the room to go. There's a cafe if you're complaining. If you can't handle hearing some things, there's a café, ma'am. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u300	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u301	Why are we sitting there listening calmly to you, who have been talking all day? What do you think, wisdom?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u302	Please don't interrupt. Mr President, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u303	Mr Drasakis comes out and talks about the recapitalisation of the banks, that it must be done because there are risks even for haircuts. What's this? What kind of danger are these? What kind of situations are these to the Greek people? For so many years the issue of red loans has been sleeping and you are now threatening the Greek people's statements? Is that the security offered by Mr. Tsipras's government? Is that the security he's offering? And then they come out and say, "We didn't mean that, we meant something else," without saying what they meant. A minister must either have his mouth closed or when he opens it, he must be careful what he says. That's what the rule says, because society is listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u305	What? I don't hear what Mr. Amyras says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u306	Time's off by itself, automatically. The time we put in is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u307	And what, I hung up on him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u308	No, automatic. To God!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u309	I don't know what time did. I know that Tsipras speaks for two hours. Do you want us not to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u310	Oh, no. It's closed automatically, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u311	You know, I have said that after the elections, the Centro Association will not support a government unless there is a referendum on the Prespecies. The referendum we had to do before, we'll do it later. One, apparently, is SYRIZA's, he says: “How and with what convenience do you ask for a referendum on an international convention? Aren't you afraid that Turk can do the same with the Treaty of Lausanne?' But the Treaty of Lausanne took place after war, to close a case, and here the Prespes became peace in time, as a concession, to the detriment of Greece's interests! We compare a contract that closes the war with a concession in a time of peace, does it create the right for Turkey to raise a question about the Treaty of Lausanne? Are we serious? Mr Mitsotakis accepted Mr Weber days ago - I think - and Mr Weber gave an interview on a channel. They asked him, "Mitsotakis did not vote for the Prespes. You in Europe are in favour of the Ambassadors. How is a member of the European People's Party not voting for Prespecies, while you are in favour of the Prespecies? Finally what do you think of the Prespes?" And Mr Webber replied that 'we believe that the Prespecies Treaty creates stability in the region'. Well, since you are members of the European People's Party and since you think the Prespecies are bad, could you not convince your colleagues in Europe, your fellow citizens, that they are the Prespecies bad? Is it right to come here and say that the Prespes are good? I will give you an example. This is an insult to you, to the detriment of the New Democracy. If I belonged to a party and the President of the European Parliament came and said that the Prespes were good, I would delete the New Democracy, that is, my party, from this group. It's a big deal. The Centro Association belongs to EDP, you know. The EDP met yesterday in Bilbao. I asked the Manifesto to make a reservation about the Prespecies that the Centro Association will call for a referendum after the elections. The French, German and others have said that it is not possible, because it is considered to be closed. When this news came to me, I sent my representative there to withdraw the Centro Association from the EDP. Do you hear that? And you know what they decided? Let's talk about it at the next part-session in April. When you push in favour of your country, you find solutions when you're endemic and retreat, you don't find solutions. That's right. I threatened to leave the Centro Association from the EDP because I could not belong to a group of parties supporting the Prespes. This is an insult to Greece. I would also like to say something about you in the New Democracy something very important and also applies to PASOK this: only language and identity. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, was the reason for the rally on language and identity? At the rallys - those you went because Mr. Dendias was against going, Dora didn't want to go to the rallys too - and you went with me if I cry, you went sliding, you didn't go with your will - where you went to the language rallys, Mr. Bourras, and about identity or the name of Macedonia? Why are you evasive? What kind of evasion is this? I'm sorry, if today's correction is made by Zafe on language and identity, the name is given? You've made it clear within you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u312	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u313	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent Then why for so long were you talking about a composite name? I'm sorry, you posted in 2008, when Costas Karamanlis and Dora ruled, on the Foreign Ministry's website, the phrase "complex name" and Mr. Venizelos had been taken to the United Nations and mentioned the composite name. What do you mean? "Chicken-chicken" composite? I don't understand. What kind of hypocrisy is that? Listen, politics needs bravery here. What were you supposed to say? The whole world knew that your position was in favour of a complex name. You should say, under the new data and under the general social outcry and the will of society: "We agree with the will of the Greek people and do not give Macedonia". Then you would have high on the forehead, while hiding in this Chamber behind identity and language is not in your honor. In fact, you've been backing Mr. Tsipras to do the tendering. Let us explain on this. I wrote to Mr Mitsotakis, when he made the motion of censure, and I said to him: "Get out and make it clear for the name of the New Democracy. Leave the languages and the identities. Clear for the name." He didn't answer. Mr. Dendias laughs. You're underestimating the rallys, Mr. Dendia, aren't you? But the Greek people have understood what your position is, Mr. Dendia. And, laughter, you don't get rid of your responsibilities, you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President, for the reminder. Can I write ten times, "I'm not going to do it again?"
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u315	You don't want any rallys. The votes of the rallys want them. Storms no, Mr. Teddy. That's right. I want to talk about three essential issues, three reductions over the last few decades: one reduction was in the agreements between Zurich and London. There Constantine Karamanlis, the old, the so-called nation ruler, based on US promises, went and signed with Averof agreements and put the Turkish guarantor in Cyprus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u316	The happier signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u317	Leave the Blessed now. The agreements between Zurich and London, Averoff and Karamanlis, were not of Awake!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u318	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u319	All right, all right. We don't remember what it was, Mr. Kumucaco. Afterwards, when Karamanlis was betrayed by the Americans, Karamanlis pulled Greece out of NATO, but in the meantime Turkey had occupied half Cyprus, we had sacrifices, we had victims, we occupied the northern part of Cyprus, because old Karamanlis was based on the American talk that they would take over the Turks. The same happened to Ioannides, who made the modesty as a veil he was. It was based on the view that the Turks will find an obstacle to the Americans and the Americans will support the Greeks and make Samson's coup in Cyprus. Then remember the end of Ioannides. Rumor of stupidity. Now we have Mr. Tsipras, who has relied on the American talk that Thessaloniki will become an international center, that investment will come, money will come, rabbits will come with rocks, there will be Thessaloniki an international center, but we have betrayed Thessaloniki for the time being. That's what Mr. Tsipras did. Ladies and gentlemen, do not think that, with votes here in this House, there are cutbacks in signatures. The historian writes and he is ruthless and the people will punish those who have not respected Macedonia. Macedonia is not part of Greece, it is Greece itself. Some extreme right-wings who want to become pimps of Thessaloniki and Macedonia warn them: The democratic space has always expressed Macedonia. The far right was a place of treason and subjection to foreigners, but in Asia Minor with what the "Gunanetes" and "Hantzanestis" did, but in Cyprus, with what Karamanlis did with the Zurich and London agreements, but with what they did on northern Greece and what they will continue to do. The cut-off won't pass. We will call for a referendum after the elections to support a government. And if you're bragging with the polls that the Centro Association may not come in and tell you that these elections will be elections overthrowing all the prognostics. "Great men have been forced and frustrated", remember it, too, symbols and right-wings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u320	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and three educational sessions from the 1st Experimental Gymnasium of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Independent Greeks, Mr Panos Kammenos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope it is not true that the Prime Minister of the country today will not attend the debate... [[Mr Alexis Tsipras, President-in-Office of the Council, entered this Chamber]] Is he here? So I thank him for coming here, because I asked him for it yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u322	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u323	I thank him for being here today, because during the previous debate when, from the Step of the House, I said that I spoke lastly as President of the Group of Independent Greeks and that the President of the Parliament has, in conjunction with the Prime Minister and the Government, planned the independent Greeks to be incapable of speaking to him and indeed asked me to say to him the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, with which the Independent Greeks - with the design of the President - would have been cut off from the right at least to be able to speak. However, as you can see, today and after my speech and the deletion of MP Papachristopoulos, with the decision of the President of the Parliament and the question he did not respect the previous opinion of the Scientific Committee, it was decided what the previous government of Samara - Venizelos failed, namely that the Independent Greeks should not have the right to speak, the right to participate in the committees, the right to exist as a parliamentary group, the Independent Greeks who have so far been government partners for four years, with our disagreements where they were, with our vote where they were imposed, but also with the back that we put in Greece and abroad so that our homeland can come out of the memorandum and that government policy can be implemented. This was a design that began from the time of my trip to America, which, with the headlines of the "EFIMERIDA OF THE COMPANY" and "AYYY", announced for the first time in a democratic Europe that there would be a distance, that there would be transfers of MPs, that the popular will and MPs would be altered in exchange for the Minister's chair would pass from one party to another and from the party and the government's partner's movement to the other partner of the government. It hit the "Wall Street" bell and I really don't hide you that I didn't want to believe it. Congratulations, Prime Minister, you have done it! [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] You did it and I see New Democracy laughs, after all, on a common line you are in the complex name and course of the country in relation to Macedonian. You also took my "head" and took it for a walk to Erdogan by applauding the newspapers, the "HURRIYET" and the others, that at last left the problem. The next journey may be to Mrs Merkel and to the Socialist Europeans with the "capital" of the Independent Greeks. I hope there isn't a third one, see a picture in Davos, as Mr. Zaev took with Mr. Soros. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am in Parliament for twenty-five years. I was first elected in 1993, 1996, in 2000, in 2004, in 2009, in 2012, twice as much as the Independent Greeks, in 2015 twice as the Independent Greeks. Throughout my political life elected in Athens or Evros or in the Dodecanese with New Democracy and the Independent Greeks everything I had to say from the Step of the House. I have neither blackmailed nor blackmailed and came to the end of my parliamentary life, after a four-year co-operation, to be executed and to have me particularly cut off the right to speak from the Step of the House. This, Prime Minister, is a crime that you committed and which, perhaps as far as I am concerned, I take responsibility myself, but as far as the Independent Greeks are concerned, is a crime that I will never forget. What were the children to blame who should be removed tomorrow and who fought for the SYRIZA - ANEL government? What is the fault of Eve, Helen, Andreas, George, Vasilis, Antonis on the road why did you decide to keep us quiet? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] What is the fault of those who, Prime Minister, believed you and were with us in the Constitution, in Klathmonos, in your offices in Koumoundouros, in the successes of the government, in the victories in the House that you now say 'take your feet, go to unemployment'? You have basically cut them down, with your decision to abolish the Group of Independent Greeks in a coup d'état, the opportunity first of all to be able to enjoy the results of a common course and, at the same time, to be disappointed, because we have now passed in the time of the chair, where the chair and position are exchangeable with the soul. And of course, what is confirmed is a sign that Constantine Mitsotakis had in his office by the saying of Heraklitos: "No one safer enemy of the benevolent uncharacter." And it's not just enough, but we're also getting public attacks. Mr Skourletis said today: 'The Independents are crying'. We don't whisper or cry or beg. We did not ask for a change in the Rules of Procedure. And we would not agree to change the Rules of Procedure. He's here two of the Independent Members and Mr. Lazarides and Mr. Kammenos. To tell if I ever called them and begged them and asked them to come back to save the parliamentary group. I would never have done so and I would never have done so, because I respect the decisions of each Member, who remains independent However, what I do not accept is those who, by a popular mandate other than the one they took, switch to the government majority and exchange their vote with the ministerial chair, MPs who became ministers and citizens who became Ministers with the support of the Independent Greeks, with the statute clear in relation to Macedonia. They become the north of the transaction and not only the elected MPs who hold the ministerial seats, but even the Deputy Member of the seat of the Athens Region, who this evening - after the honest resignation of Papachristopoulos - would have to go to the Independent Greeks, is bought by you with a ministerial chair! It is repurchased by you with a ministerial chair, so that you can achieve the hundred and fifty-one! This, in fact, shows that we are talking about a complete overthrow of both the Constitution and morality. You will rule with a hundred and fifty one, of which three are your partner, whom you have taken against a chair and have deprived him of the floor. Do you remember, Prime Minister, when we went after the speeches at the head of your office and talked about the battles we won in this House? Mr. Mitsotakis together, we were fighting him. Now, with what you're doing, you lead us to Anti-Policy. We're not going to make opposition dirty. Nor what you are spreading and say on the left and right that we disperse rumors will ever be done by us. No bridges, Prime Minister, I have built myself with the complexion and the opposition. If I get out of here, Prime Minister, I'll go home. I'm not going to beg anyone. I am twenty-five years elected Member, seven years Minister. This evening I may also give you my resignation from a Member. Perhaps that would be better to understand that there are people who don't count the chair, for whom it's not all the power. You have to realise that as far as the complex is concerned, I have been hit with it for twenty-five years. Four newspapers were founded, hosting me on their front page to date, by a certain man with whom I was politically confronted, as did the government. And you're telling me I found them? No, Prime Minister. I didn't find them or I'll find them. You are threatening me by withdrawing the rights of the parliamentary group that I will remain unprotected and unsafe. But I also give it to you! For, Prime Minister, there are both Greeks and Greeks, and the parliamentary groups do not constitute the bureaucracy of the House, the half-wage bureaucrats or the temporary president. The parliamentary groups are formed by the people, by the citizens, by the squares, by the struggles which are being held with the political leaders, by the political parties. I give it to you and my security is the security of the truth of the Greek people. And from that point on, everyone takes a chance. Everyone will know, if anything happens, how it happened. It's enough for me to get my free voice out of it. But I had the right to have this, elected by the Greek people, as leader and leader of a party with which you cooperated and recognised for four years. I want you to know that our execution doesn't mean much. Obviously for you it means absolutely nothing. You've shown that you're a very cold shooter. But the execution of Macedonia means too much. The execution of Macedonia, which was not included in our programme agreement, counts for us even more. And I'm not threatening you with anything. I tell you that at least you should have the sensitivity to respect principles and ideas once you do not respect human relations. I may follow, after four years at the Ministry of National Defence, proud and upright, the path taken by those who for political reasons and while you promised against them you demobilized, to go to my home as General Stefanis or Admiral Pavlopoulou went to his house. But the others who followed all of us, where are they going? All these kids who thought there might be a national reconciliation government, what would they do? Who can tell them after a few years that there can indeed be two different spaces that can coexist? Nobody! Because here, in fact, the theater of irrationality is being played. The theater of irrationality has been explained by the late Andreas Papandreou in 1995, after the Cannes Summit. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of the Independent Greeks is ringing.]] Mr President, I have been speaking as President lately. I am entitled to speak as long as the JRC. So Papandreou, by your own way, Mr President, then care, after the Cannes Summit - I have posted a video on my twitter to see it, this morning, this morning I saw it again - after talking about the Brussels Director, who was pushing it over to deliver the term "Macedonia" and that if he had delivered the term "Macedonia", then he would be part of the Director, during the press conference, patient, but loneliness said: "I find that we are going to go to a kind of shrinking of the national power, but not to the altar of a collective democratic process, to the altar of crises and interests. Interesting when I expressly say, I do not want to reveal names, who spoke and what they said. However, I say to you that there is a clear plan here for the zeroing of national governments, which will not be able to play a democratically effective role, but will be subject to the directions that the Director-General gives us." And then, a political opponent to me, Andreas Papandreou, but the leader of the country, refused to endure and hand over the term "Macedonia", regardless of any mistakes that might have been made after or before. Today, we come to a Parliament consisting of a government with a trunk of SYRIZA, a left party, and the apostates who fled from the Independent Greeks and Potami, SYRIZA who criticised us for our relations with NATO in the four years of governance, as Minister of National Defence, whether any missiles more than Larissa would take any more action in Souda. SYRIZA, who controlled what we will tell NATO at the meeting of the ministers, today, in his knowledge, ladies and gentlemen, signifies the entry of Skopje and, in essence, the in-white transfer of the largest base from Ingirlick to Skopje, and even without even providing for whether these can be the nuclear ones that Romania has already accepted. And contrary to this convention, apart from the Communist Party that has a permanent position, it is the New Democracy. And I would quite understand that if the New Democracy had combined the refusal of the Prespecies Agreement with the view that it does not agree with the concession of the term 'Macedonia', as they believe - to be fair - more than thirty-five Members of the New Democracy, who, as their official position, have the composite name with a geographical definition of erga omnes. And it is paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, that at the moment the leadership of the New Democracy for the Convention that SYRIZA is voting for, because it considers that this "hot ball" has left its hands. At Athenian Club the other day, some people who said "Glory to you, go on." That is the political reality. They once voted for the trees. Now - you see - the chairs are voting, which are redeemed against consciences. We, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, will be tabling the deletion of Thanassis Papachristopoulos in a few minutes. We have not negotiated with anyone, nor with the MEPs from us. We did not negotiate, Prime Minister, nor with you, even though public intentions were left to change the Rules of Procedure. Because we don't want a present. We know how to fight the road. We know how to fight. However, I do not hide from you that the conditions now established are unjust conditions for a parliamentary party. You're cutting off our voice in the House. We're between two fires. We are attacked by our until yesterday's partners in the government - and I am very sorry to have to take attacks, particularly from the SYRIZA Secretary - and from the New Democracy. It's only natural that after so many years we've been in the government to make opposition. And I'm telling you I haven't built a bridge with New Democracy. We will give our battle. But you, Mr President, have a duty, at least to what we agreed to, to move forward. You will never blame us - and we will never allow you - for our relationship or for bridges with the conflict. The complication lives, for those who have broken their oath remain in their place. Because some people interact. And the Greek people expect this from our joint effort. You could find the democratic sensitivity you found in September of '15, when you asked the Greek people by referendum. You didn't do that either. You could let them try to find through the party mechanism alliances left, centre-left and progressive. You've translated the toughest right with you. And the worst of all is that you betrayed our trust, but also all these young children, who at some point celebrated with you. Too bad, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u325	Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. My intervention will be very short. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] As you have seen, I'm here and I'm here not to follow the effort you've been making in the last few days. I must say that I cannot follow the intensive effort you are making to rebuild and self-sufficient an important part of your political history, over the last four years, which I will once again say is a positive part. However, I heard your speech - and without wanting to get into analytic interpretations, I do not get used to it - which you mentioned four times - as if someone had asked you to do so - that you have not spread bridges to the complexion or to the New Democracy. And the lyrics of a beloved poem, which I dedicate to you, Mr. Cammene, have come to my mind. It is "Polis" by Konstantinos Kavafis. "New places you will not find, you will not find other seas, the city will follow you." And I dedicate it to you, mainly because I believe that in a few years from now, perhaps in a few months' time, what will remain in history is the positive that you have done four years now. And I assure you, you will thank me for having understood your political planning in good time, to overthrow the government that you supported for four years, in the face of a crucial national issue. And you will thank me for preventing me from being recorded in the pounds of history as a new Antonis Samaras. And it will thank me - I believe - and the great majority of the Greek people, left and right, because I have courageously, boldly and determinedly moved forward in order to resolve a matter for the benefit of the national interest, for the benefit of the country. That's what I did, Mr. Cammene! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u328	Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u329	I'll speak a little, Mr. President. Prime Minister, you wrote me yesterday in a message you sent to my cell phone that I built bridges. I'm not hiding that that's what bothered me more than anything. I haven't given such rights. And I told you I was going home now. As far as psychoanalyticals are concerned, I'm going to get past this. But I'll dedicate you two lyrics from a poem from Matrozo. Matrozos was a great Admiral of the Revolution from Spetses, who gave all his fortune for the 1821 Struggle. He sold it all. He stayed free of money. In Athens, at the Ministry of Navy, it was Kanaris. So they told Matrozo: "Take the ship and go to Athens to the Minister, your friend captain you once saved in Psaras and find it and it's not charity." So the Matrozo enters the ship from Spetses, passes through Hydra and arrives at the Department of Navy. And then - I'll tell you the exact verse - he goes to the entrance of the ministry, raccoon anymore, and he asks the Psarian, the Minister. And he says, "I want to see you." And he tells him who was at the entrance dressed in the ambiguous that he can't get in, because no beggars enter the ministry. He is then answered by Matrozo, Prime Minister: "If beggars like me did not shed blood, captains like you would not wear a crown." You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u330	Thank you. The Minister has the floor, Mr Apostolakis, and then is the President, Mr Gennimatas. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to address the House of Greeks for the first time as Minister of National Defence. At the same time, however, responsibility is even greater, especially in those hours when our homeland takes initiatives of historic importance for a future with more stability and cooperation in the region. It's with this sense of responsibility that I want to talk to you. You know, of course, that our country, as an older member of NATO and the European Union in the wider region, in the context of an active defence diplomacy, has taken appropriate initiatives and promotes alliances and synergies that seek to strengthen our role as a pillar of stability and as an important energy player in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans. These initiatives have already yielded significant fruit, both bilaterally and multilaterally, in the allied context. And it is particularly important that the neighbouring country now forms part of not only geographically but also historically in a Balkan area with more homogeneity, common strategic objectives, peaceful and developmental perspectives. Each step of degrading tensions in the region is in our strategic interest. Any turbulence and any attempt to overthrow the existing status quo is strategically at our expense, especially now that the refugee flows are shocking the entire Western world and the wealthy sources of the Middle East and the Southeast Mediterranean are turned into multi-democratic zones. Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the accession protocol of Northern Macedonia to NATO comes as a natural continuation of the adoption of the Prespecies Agreement. Greece has an interest in facilitating the smooth integration of northern Macedonia into NATO. And let me paraphrase the well-known saying to say that, as nature despises the void, geopolitics is thrown away. You will also allow me to stress that the accession of northern Macedonia to NATO will require systematic preparation and efforts to transform its armed forces in order to meet the prerequisites and requirements of the alliance on interoperability and standardisation. This transformation concerns, among other things, organization, individual and collective education, exercises and implementation of the necessary programmes. Here we have an important role to play and we can do it. And we can do it well and efficiently, as we have tradition, knowledge, experience and proper human resources. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point I would like to refer to two factors that I consider to be important. Firstly, in accordance with Article 17 of the Embassy Agreement, cooperation with the neighbouring country in the field of defence will be strengthened and extended through, among other things, frequent cross-cutting visits and contacts of the military leadership, transfer of know-how, training, joint exercises and capacity building. Cooperation in these areas will foster relations of reciprocity and ensure multiple benefits, not only in the defence sector. Secondly, our assistance will displace other regional candidates who are attempting to take advantage of and exert their influence on the neighbour, with potential negative consequences for our country. In addition, I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the last decade we provided military aid to our northern neighbour by staff and means in order to face security problems, and already there is political militaristic cooperation within the framework of the Southeast European countries' initiative. Our aim is to make our country a master, strategic, defence partner in Northern Macedonia, always to preserve peace and strengthen cooperation and to mutual benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand fears, concerns and even objections. But at critical times we must weigh things, have good judgment and be decisive. Actions contributing to the understanding and cooperation of countries contribute both to the development and prosperity, to the economy, to culture, to the sciences and to the everyday lives of people, contribute to the preparation and perspective of the peoples of our region. There's a very bright future ahead of us. Let us not stay on a barren and troubled past. For all these reasons, I propose ratification of this Protocol. It's for our strategic interest. It's for a more powerful Greece in the region. It is to leave behind unnecessarily hostilities and to open a long period of cooperation and peaceful coexistence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u332	The President has the floor, Mrs. Gennimata.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, it is clear that, now that we are entering the final straight for the elections, you are trying to dismantle the mark of coexistence with the extreme right, but, unfortunately, for you, as you yourself said, 'Your city will follow' will persecute you forever. Today we are called upon to ratify the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to NATO. It is the result of the Embassy Agreement, a harmful agreement for national interests, which, instead of closing wounds, opens up new ones. Mr Tsipras offered Skopje their membership to NATO, offered the start of accession negotiations in the European Union. It offered at the same time to the neighbouring country, Macedonian language, Macedonian identity, Macedonian people, or Macedonian nation. With your signature, keep the root of aluterism alive. You delivered all the weapons that Andreas Papandreou had secured for the country in 1995 with the Interim Agreement. He said, in October 1993, that Skopje wanted Macedonia's name, because their goal was to create a Macedonian state that would include Skopje, the Macedonian Republic of Pirin and our own Macedonia. "It's not just a name issue," he said attributes. ‘It is a matter of national risk in a long time’. You have essentially transferred the monopoly of the term "Macedonia" to the neighbouring country. Because in the Prespecies Agreement our Macedonia is called or is best described - because it is not called - 'the northern region of the first part'. Congratulations! That is why the Greek people call a great 'no' to this agreement and no one has the right to ignore their will. Of course they are neither fools nor extreme right-wing populists! Without naturally worrying about the problems that are created for Greece, those who insisted and wanted here and now are the foreign powers, because they wanted to serve their geopolitical and economic interests. This is exactly what you have served, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA Government and a little ANEL. Of course, they did not understand that the agreement does not guarantee the well-being of all of us in the region, instead of sedation. You have proved to be the most inappropriate and I fear dangerous to the national interest. You gave what no Prime Minister has granted until today. You negotiated without a national line, causing you yourself polarization and a new division. You tried to use this case as a vehicle for your party pursuits and attacking parties. You have succeeded with one move: national concession, division of the Greek people and a blow against parliamentaryism. Today, here in Parliament, we call a new 'no'. We say 'no' to ratification of the protocol on entry into NATO, and this new 'no' is a 'no' to unacceptable terms and national concessions accompanying Macedonia's accession by means of the Prespecies Agreement. That is the point of our vote. You will be aware, Mr Tsipras, that no matter what you do, the Greek people will not forget this unacceptable Prespecies Agreement and will not offset it with any benefits and no unbearable promise that you are now panicking. No one will forget, of course, the serious complaints about the financing of your government by foreign centres, complaints that have been heard within the Ministerial Council by your former partner and have never been answered. I must say that we are still waiting for the resignation of the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, to be made public, and we wonder why you have not done so far. What is it that scares you? Mr Tsipras, national issues do not have any illusions and delusion, and this is because the damage is irreparable. That is why there is a need to awaken, prepare and agree on a national line, and I stress this particularly for Greek-Turkish relations. Ladies and gentlemen, with Turkey we want peaceful relations, but on the basis of respect for the rules of international law and the principles of good neighbourliness. We don't claim anything and we don't give anything at all. In the Aegean, there are neither gray zones nor doubts. Everything is regulated by treaties and international law. I would like to believe that on this very basis the discussions took place at your recent meeting with Mr Erdogan. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] I cannot fail to note that it was extremely challenging that the Turkish representative, in his statements, unilaterally set the agenda for this meeting. The Turkish side has announced that the islands will also be discussed. And it was an incomprehensible act on their part the proclamation of the eight Turkish officers before your aircraft even landed in Turkey. The necessary summit meetings must be very well designed and prepared. I wonder: Didn't he teach you anything about the shipwreck of the meeting with Mr. Erdogan in Athens? And really, what was discussed in the marathon and alone meeting of Mr. Tsipras with Mr. Erdogan? Have there been any decisions or commitments? And, if so, what issues? Did you really raise Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Erdogan, the issue of the provocative actions of his government on the very day of your visit? Do you make it clear that behaviors that violate the Treaty of Lausanne are not acceptable? Did you make it clear that the issue of Halki is primarily an international theme of human rights and not a bilateral Greek-Turkey, as Mr Erdogan publicly put it? You have to inform the political parties at least of the contents of your conversations. You have to understand that relations with Turkey are not available for communication tricks and public relations. We ask and we insist, Mr Tsipras, because we and the Greek people must admit that we have absolutely no confidence in you, because every time you negotiate, only new burdens come to the back of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I have often said that there is a question of democracy in the country. Every day they come to light extortion, complaints of suspicious transactions, debates on intertwined, behind-the-military intrigues and sound a number of strange commitments. Now they've been added for extortion. Only two words illustrate all of this environment and the crisis that we are experiencing and experienced and a little earlier in this Chamber: decline and degeneration. MPs change parties like shirts. Members appear to belong to two groups at the same time, to borrow or to be assigned approximately by leasing from one party to another. Members of Parliament shall be prevented by their letter from having, by the Constitution itself, a duty to be placed on the basis of their conscience in the bills. They do not hesitate to grant it on a white cheque to SYRIZA, i.e. vote in advance without even being members of the Group's parliamentary group. In the course they run all this in some way to gather it together. The absolute humiliation of Mr. Tsipras's personal responsibility! You do not hesitate, Mr Tsipras, to stay in power a few months longer, to create conditions of political anomaly, to cause a brutal blow to parliamentaryism, that is to say, to lay a mine on the foundations of democracy itself. And you're trying to get caught in power by enlargement to the extreme right and, of course, various corporations, remnants and gyroologists. They are situations that create atrocities for citizens for politics. All of this is nothing but butter on the far right bread, which is squashed. And if so far you have been a political sponsor of the New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis, today it is clear that you are becoming a personal sponsor and sponsor of the Golden Dawn! [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] It is no accident, as it seems, that Madour and his status were for them their model for the country's governance, which is why they are still supporting him. We know that his hair drowned is caught. You are now trying to represent the progressive and you have declared us the war, but you will not easily end with us. It will not catch the resalto on our line, nor the dirty 2019 that you are trying to set up. And I see your reflexes have been down lately, you've been delayed. We're waiting for the next blow, to see what else you'll be up to, and you'll finally think against us. Listen, Mr Tsipras, no stalker will loot the great democratic and progressive party of Andreas Papandreou, who is a side of progress and stability for this country. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, with your Government, national issues are falling back. Democracy is in danger. And I come to the economy, which, as the Prime Minister said, is his fortress. God put his hand on it! Development is being carcinogenic. Banks are unable to finance the economy and taxes are kneeling down households and businesses. We now have Mr Drasakis, who has been talking to us for two weeks about the risk with the banks, the risk of needing recapitalisation, and this being done at the expense of the Greek taxpayer. Don't think about it! Your responsibility rests solely on the state of the banks today. We are lending as a country dearly, at a much higher interest rate than the countries that are really coming out of the memoranda, such as Cyprus and Portugal, so that public debt is increased. The Public Investment Programme has really made it'savings' to get the surpluses out. In short, we shall proceed without compass and without prospects. And, of course, mass auctions also come to threaten the first residence of small and medium-sized borrowers. You are still talking about social policy, while the National Health System is falling apart and hospitals are narrow. It seems that the system was completely unprepared to deal with the flu that is currently on the rise and you celebrate, because you have managed, with two years' delay, to increase the minimum wage, and you do not understand that this increase disappears from the reduction in duty, which you have voted on. Another mockery! You are talking about dealing with unemployment and you do not understand that part-time work is being paid and paid at EUR 300. So whoever really believes in social policy has nothing but to vote for the proposal for a law tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) in the House. Here's Rhodes! [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] So let us ensure protection at first home, immediately abolish the tax-free provision, reintroduce the minimum wage system to the social partners, strengthen the realisation of new professionals, with a three-year exemption from taxes and social security contributions and, essentially, tax incentives, so that they can become unemployed in the private sector. Prime Minister, put an end to the decline. Put an end to the degeneration of political life. One thing you can do and do it today. Here's the election date, to finally get rid of the place from you! [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] I would like to stress here that the country does not need, by disapproving the outgoing Prime Minister, to choose an aspiring replacement, which does not even bother to present a comprehensive proposal for the governance of the country, simply waits for the matter to come to him as a mature fruit and does more than that, please ask that this government complete its subordination agreements so that it can sit back on them and continue to manage the very same policy. The ideological identity of the New Democracy and its political stigma in this place are well known, they are deeply conservative and they are our political and ideological opponent. It has enormous responsibilities for the crisis and the memoranda. Now it's not just us. He just opened his mouth yesterday and Mr Manos spoke of the responsibilities of the Karamanlis government for the bankruptcy of the country. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] The government, of course, still refuses to become an economic examination, to see who really has a responsibility that this country has in the memorials and crisis, because the relationship and the right-wing component, the caramanic component of the SYRIZA government and how one hand washes off. So the country needs a government that is progressive. It needs a new national narrative that will gain the lost credibility and ensure the right to dignity for every Greek and every Greek woman. The truths hurt, but it's time for them to be heard. Let everyone assume their responsibilities. It is time for all the parties to assume their responsibilities for the place in which the country is situated in these elections. And if some people today believe that, by voting on New Democracy, they are finally getting away with SYRIZA, they are deeply mistaken. They are simply pulling him away for a short time from power and there is a risk that they will put the country in new adventures at the same time, the ones that the Right knows very well to put it. So those who have realised in this country what Mr. Tsipras and his company are and believe that they have to finish with them, have only one possibility: to support the Change Movement, a truly progressive solution, a solution that can stand idly against maintenance, populism, division, polarization, which will only lead the country again in new adventures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u334	Thank you very much. The President of the New Democracy and Chief of Officership Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u335	Ladies and gentlemen, before I speak on the subject of today's sitting and since I see the Minister of Health in the Chamber, let me refer to an issue of topicality, which is of grave concern to the Greek society. Forty fellow citizens have lost their lives, hundreds of them are hospitalized, many in intensive, many more are suffering from the flu virus. I am sorry, Minister, but this is a fact unacceptable in the 21st century and it proves that the government unfortunately did not tackle this underground, the unscientific rumour of "anti-embolism". It did not go through properly informing the public or the fast supply of pharmacies, and many beds in intensive unfortunately remain closed and the primary care, the so advertised reform of the TMIs, has never actually been implemented. We all know it's a system that collapses. I am obliged, Minister, to point out all this and we expect the government to finally fulfil its basic tasks and, even today, to take all the necessary measures before we mourn other victims. Ladies and gentlemen, the House is being called today at a meeting - I dare say quite hypotonic about the importance of the issue - to finalise the Macedonian integration into NATO. The new Republic will vote against the accession protocol. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is because it is simply the final act, the predetermined final act of a harmful agreement, and it is being carried out through an unprecedented procedure for our parliamentary customs and leaving the government, Mr Tsipras himself, personally, morally devalued. Because that is what you are now, a government and a government majority based on opportunistic, temporary alliances, in order to vote for the Prespecies Agreement, an agreement supported by some willing MPs, but an agreement rejecting it by the great majority of the Greek people, which explains why Mr Tsipras and the others are urgent to enter into force. And all this, while the representativeness of the composition of Parliament has been altered. A national retreat is, unfortunately, taking place in the ruins of the basic rules of the Parliamentary Republic. Instead of going to elections, as Mr Tsipras would have to do, he attempts to commit the country without having political legitimacy to do so. They have never been in our country what we have experienced in recent weeks. They are an expression of unprecedented political institutional arbitrary. The Hellenic Republic has lived and lives in moments of political transaction and, indeed, in common sight. In the face of our eyes we have seen - and unfortunately we are still seeing - blackmail. Every day we think it's not going down the road and we're being disguised. Everyone is now aware of the bazaars that have been made. Confessions were exchanged with portfolios and points, either to give a vote of confidence to the government or to pass the Embassy Agreement. Other majorities give the government a vote of confidence, other majorities vote for the Embassy Agreement. Legislation goes through 'one-time' MPs. It is unprecedented: that Members of the Greek Parliament should be allowed to vote on all future bills, which this government will bring, in essence, in violation of the very oath they have given. All this between lawn breaks. So will Macedonia's accession to NATO, with loan votes by Mr Kammenos, who plays the same theatre as he had started last spring, when he gave Mr Tsipras the pen to sign the Prespecies Agreement, an agreement which canceled the policy of all the previous governments in the scroll. Now, for what we've seen today, what can I say? A four-year laughter ends with a melodrama. The last stage of political depreciation is ridicule. And I think we're still at the beginning! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The citizens who have been following this dialogue today between Mr Kammenos and Mr Tsipras have reached their conclusions. I don't have to add anything more. I will just say that this total parliamentary decline, which we have experienced in recent weeks, finally strengthens the enemies of democracy, strengthens all those who deceive politics as a whole, strengthens all those who sow frustration, investing in extremes, cultivating irresistible conspiracy theories, as you have done in the past. Your policy is, after all, the one that excites them. Your policy throws water into the mill of extreme enemies of democracy. And that is why the country must go directly to the polls. The elections will bring about the political clearance that Greece needs today. The sooner they get, the better it will be for the place. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today's composition of the House is in complete disparity with society. The arithmetic formed by the government with transactions, by extortion, is a numerical time. Majorities arising from blackmails and bazaars are fake and Mr. Tsipras' monotonous lies are no longer heard by anyone. Against all this, the Greeks have their own voice and they will send their own message: Get out! Get out with the taxes! Go along with the two of you memoirs! Leave with your failure. Let the Greeks finally breathe and take the fates of the place into their hands. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, such a House, and under these sad circumstances, it is wrong to bind the country to such a crucial decision as today. Because ratification of the accession protocol is the final seal in a national error. After today's decision there is no return anymore. One of the most powerful negotiating weapons in our country is being definitively lost, a weapon that we have given you in your hands, but, unfortunately, you have not been able to use. After all - let's not fool ourselves - Macedonia's entry to NATO was the operative cause of the Prespecies Agreement. The allies have long wanted to close this loose end. Only now, however, have they found a government so willing to divide the Greeks to unite the Skopje. In the previous debate, Mr Tsipras, I have explained in detail the negative data of the Prespecies Agreement. Mr. Tsipras then avoided answering me specifically. He even talked about details of formalities. He replied, as usual, in general terms to specific arguments. So these bitter truths, painful truths, I will repeat them today, not for him, which is rather indifferent, but for the Greeks, who care and worry. So let's see if today, at last, I'm going to get specific answers to the questions I ask. The first is that this agreement overturns a stable foreign policy, which the country has been pursuing for over a hundred years. Greece has never allowed a third party to monopolize the term "Macedonia" and has never recognized when - I repeat! - a distinct Macedonian ethnicity. This stable and clear attitude is changing now. And this is done by common vehicle ethnicity, identity and language, three concepts that your Government, while not having to do so, accepted as Macedonian. Truth Two: The Topic of Language. You insist falsely that she had been recognized since 1977. I told you at the previous meeting - and you did not answer - that the Skopje themselves - the Skopje themselves! - as is apparent from the minutes of the summit, they say clearly that Greece did not recognize and recognise Macedonian language. Like, of course, NATO never recognized Macedonian language. I also submitted to you last time the relevant NATO document, which says that "Macedonian language is unacceptable to one NATO delegation". Since 2000, Mr Tsipras, it has been this document. I filed it, but I didn't get an answer. I'm curious to see if I'll call today. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As for the notorious argument that this language belongs to the so-called'south-Slavish languages', it is without content. The Bulgarians belong to them, too, and Serbians belong to them. Nor did the Skopje ever say they speak the ancient Greek language. They asked for the Macedonian and you gave it to them, gentlemen of SYRIZA! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Kotzia, has it never bothered you that the Bulgarians have never recognized the Macedonian language?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u336	Please, be quiet. Mr. Kotzia, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u337	And Bulgarian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of National Defence said that such language does not exist and cannot be established. I wonder, Mr. Tsipras, have you ever exploited this position? Have you ever been interested in forming a common position on this issue in order to avoid this development? Why didn't you? I'll tell you what. Because, basically, you didn't care. You considered this issue - and still many of you consider it - meaningless as an openness, which should be closed as - as a historic note of no importance. So you closed it, as you did, for the reasons that only you know. Third: Article 7 of the Prespecies Agreement defines for Skopje: “In the terms “Macedonian” and “Macedonian” shall be described...”, reread, “...the territory, the language, the population and their characteristics, with their own history, culture and identity.”. All of this is synonymous with the definition of national identity. And a clearer definition of nation does not exist. In this case, they also constitute something new, unacceptable: a Macedonian identity which, with your stamp and your signature, has nothing to do with Greece and which is not even called the 'North-Macedonian', so that it can be linked, even formally, to the new name of the neighbouring country. This agreement, therefore, recognises, in our signature, the right to formally and legally identify citizens of the neighbouring country as "Macedonians". This will also be shown on their passports.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u338	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u339	Truth Four: You have achieved the famous 'erga omnes', a name for all uses, to turn it to the detriment of our own interests. I told you again last time, but I didn't get an answer here either. Article 1.8 of the Agreement clearly states: ‘Members shall use the name and terminologies of Article 1.3 for all uses and purposes, ‘erga omnes’, whether internally or in all regional and international organisations.’. What does that mean? That "erga omnes" legally binds not only our northern neighbours, but also Greece. Therefore Macedonian identity, Macedonian language is officially recognised as monopolistic to the Skopje, now being mandatory in Greece. We are legally obliged to call our neighbours 'Macedonians'. Enjoy your 'erga omnes', Mr. Tsipras and honourable Members of SYRIZA! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, the problem arises in multiples over trademarks. Hundreds of companies, using the surname "Macedonian" on their brand, are tragically exposed. The issue of trade marks has been referred to in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u340	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u341	Truth 5: The agreement does not mention anywhere the word "Macedonia" or "Macedonians" in relation to Greece, Mr Tsipras. Nowhere does it write "Greek Macedonians" or "Greek Macedonia". On the other hand, the Greek Macedonia is identified as ‘the northern region of the first part’. I repeat: Greek Macedonia is identified as "the northern region of the first part". The leaders of the neighbouring country, you know, made sure they didn't accept anything in the agreement that directly attributed the term "Macedonian" to Greece. For their part, they fought, removed any reference to "Greek Macedonia". The question, however, is why Mr Tsipras and his proud negotiators have allowed them to do so. And because I also saw a statement from SYRIZA yesterday, which criticised with a great deal of courage the fact that New Democracy officials say: “Yes, we will not call them Macedonians. There are other forms of contempt for us to describe them." [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will never say, "I welcome Macedonian Prime Minister in the country." I expect you to say it, Mr. Tsipras! I expect you to say it! [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] And I also expect Mr Apostolakis to welcome the "Macedonian army" in Greece, when he is taking common high school with the Greek Army! [[Members of the New Democracy applaud strong and protracted]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] That's what you signed! Don't get upset!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u342	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u343	That is exactly what you signed and these are going to vote on today. Now you are confronted with the consequences of your own choices. They're going to pursue you politically for a long time. The problem is that they will damage the country for many years. The Presidencies Agreement, ladies and gentlemen, does not solve an old problem, but add new problems. It may, in fact, temporarily serve international interests in the region, but it leads Greece to a permanent minefield for the future. How will they be certified - and I repeat the question, why have I not received any answer - products with the designation of origin of northern Greece, when all neighbouring products can officially be marketed as 'Macedonian'? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I imagine that your mocking, gentlemen of SYRIZA, is about the fact that you are challenging the business in northern Greece! You don't care, as you never did, after all, about this case! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You were the ones who said in 2008 that the name "Macedonia" should be given. It turns out at every opportunity that you really do not care about the national sensitivities of the Greeks. You don't care about this case at all. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What will change, then, in the history books of both countries, so that there will be no corrosion reports? I didn't know in our books there were alpha-corruption reports. However, I have seen several statements by Mr Zaev, who behind him has the map of 'Greek Macedonia'. So do not put us in the same fate, please, Greece and Skopje, in this matter. And last but not least: The Prespecies Agreement formally allows them to be set up here, in Greece, in northern Greece, in Macedonian, Macedonian culture. And you know that there are people in our country - I am not telling you something that you are not aware of - some who are speaking the language, which they are speaking as a proof of ethnicity, that, in other words - take note of it is important - within Greece there are Macedonians who are not Greeks. They've said they'll do it. We're watching them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u344	Now do you understand what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u345	Quiet! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u346	Will you ask for the change from us because we reveal the consequences of your own policy? Please, ladies and gentlemen, you are causing this. Why are you protesting? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You give the opportunity to create a minority problem in Northern Greece with the agreement you have signed. You will not ask for the change from New Democracy, because it highlights the reality, as it is formed after the signing of the Prespecies Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, the people are fully aware of what these truths mean. The Embassy Agreement finally offers the possibility for neighbors to monopolize Macedonian ethnicity, Macedonian identity, Macedonian language. We don't have any illusions. This text has been prepared and promoted so that at the end of the day only some of the labels will be repainted. In practice, even the term "North Macedonia" is very likely to be ignored, as Macedonian language and identity will eventually bring the name together. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a balanced agreement. It is a settlement, and only Mr Tsipras knows what political exchange he took to say 'yes' where all the previous Prime Ministers had said 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u347	Pensions!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u348	Quiet. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u349	We'll find out everything along the way. We'll find out all about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u350	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Tsipras did not hear and you did not hear the voices of the Greeks at the great rallys. You even ignored half the SYRIZA voters of 2015 who tell you that they are against the agreement. And you continue, unfortunately, to offend the Greek people, calling 'nationalist, 'right-wing' or - even worse! - and "armless" anyone who's not on your side. For that is about what Mr Tsipras said, talking to European leaders, that some people who are against the agreement do not have the mind to see the greatness of Mr Tsipras and the greatness of his thinking. Shame on you, Mr. Tsipras! Shame on you to insult and underestimate Greek citizens in this way! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, in order to make it clear once and for all, it is a policy that Mr Tsipras in New Democracy speaks about extreme right, because he is the one who raised, along with the extreme right, the "hidden hangers" in the Constitution, it is the one with the extreme right that threw the Government of New Democracy in 2014! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I'll tell you what we did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u352	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u353	He is the one who colluded with the nationalist extreme right-wing populism that is mirrored on the face of Mr Kammenos, without whose tolerance the government would never have reached the Prespes. He is the one who, with the votes of the Golden Dawn, has even appointed his legal counseling president of an independent authority. Four years now the extreme right is on trial. Mr. Tsipras will be out of power, and the trial will still not be over! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It was the New Democracy, however, which led to the violence and the hatred of the Golden Dawn on the stand. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But you insist on forgetting them. They don't suit you. So let us not take New Democracy into your mouth and make unscrupulous references to the extreme right and finally stop slandering the spontaneous patriotic reaction to the Prespecies Agreement. What you have proved, Mr. Tsipras, in your attitude, is one: Great sponsor and stable representation of the extreme right in Greece is Mr. Tsipras with his own policy! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, with lies and propaganda you are not serving the national interest. We have followed, with great reservation, the government's direction of Mr Tsipras' visit to Turkey. The New Democracy has stable positions towards Turkey. It wants peace and cooperation, but with respect for the Treaties of International Law, the national interest and the European acquis. We stand firm, as the country's experience in the issue of the Prespecies Agreement has been traumatic, not only because it has brought a national retreat, but because it has involved such a serious issue in the nets of internal political controversy, in the networks of parties. National laws can never enter the balance of political exchanges. We know very well that on the issue of our northern neighbour we have done our duty. We denounced Mr. Kotzia's secret diplomacy from the first moment. We removed the "Macedonia of Iliden". We have warned of the dangers arising from the hypocrisy of Mr Kammenos. The New Democracy shall develop its policy in a purely national interest. That is why we are firmly oriented in the Western world. We are the guardians of the European orientation of our country. Others discovered NATO neatly...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u354	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u355	May I remind you what you were saying about NATO a few years ago? Let's leave it better. You know it. You don't have to! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We don't have to prove anything to anyone. That is why we are talking to our partners in terms of mutual respect. At first - we have said so many times - the New Democracy had no objection to Skopje entering NATO. It had and objected, however, to join NATO, giving Macedonian identity, ethnicity and language. That is our disagreement with you, Mr Tsipras, and that is why we are voting against the accession protocol. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have also explained these to our interlocutors in Europe, without hesitating to disagree privately and publicly with strong factors such as Chancellor Merkel. We have the credibility of being able to defend our positions. Now, however, they have been shaped negatively. The national effort, however, continues. The adverse effects of this agreement should be mitigated by measure, day after day. I repeat once again, to answer Mr Theodorakis as well: I am not dismissing the right of veto in the accession of Skopje to the European Union. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thirty-five chapters exist, which require our approval, both in opening and closing. So these will not be opened and will not be closed without satisfying Greece's positions and its national interests. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting against the accession protocol, because it seals the national defeat of the Prespecies. At the same time, we are denouncing the effec­tiveness of political life by a raven's government. We resist the national, institutional, economic wreck caused by SYRIZA and its governance, which, instead of ANELs, is now supported by some peripheral disposable Members. It is a regime of fear, lies, taxes and national concessions. But, you know, in republics, no regimes can be set up, like those regimes of Mr. Maduro, which you insist to support and admire, you of SYRIZA... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...without ever responding to how national interests are served by your support to Mr Madour and what finally connects you with this Venezuelan junta. And do you not have the necessary democratic sensitivities to understand that here we are dealing with a heated dictator, who has led his country to poverty and tolerance? I'm finally waiting, Mr. Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u356	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u357	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u358	The "Oh, my God" you said, did he refer to your last visits to the churches, to all these nice shows that we see? Are you looking for any epiphany from aunts too? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You will answer us sometime for Mr Madouros, I imagine, and why you insist on differentiating from the European position. But look, in democracies, there are no regimes being set up, because these regimes are scanning the elections and elections are coming. They'll give the Greeks a breath. They will bring truth, unity and progress and will open up another way for our country, with fewer taxes, more investment and jobs, especially for the new generation, with opportunities for all and protection for those who need it and with one state in the service of the citizen and not the party, with respect for the institutions, rules and security in everyday life.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u359	What do we do now? What exactly is it? Excuse me. Please don't interfere. We don't fight underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u360	And yes, Mr. Tsipras, and with smaller primary surpluses. I have seen with interest that you have reacted negatively to a positive development for the country. What is this positive development? That an important European leader, probably the next President of the European Commission, said something that I understand at one level might have disturbed you, that yes, a serious and reliable government can claim smaller surpluses for the country. Do you agree with this policy, Mr. Tsipras? Yes or no? Do you agree that it should be a national objective to reduce surpluses? Yes or no? Or do you want to load the next government higher surpluses, why do you think that way you will make our lives more difficult? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I invite you here and now, we go together in Europe, we go together to Germany to claim the smallest surpluses, unless what you really want is to make the next government's life more difficult, having actually discounted the election result. Look, we are fighting for the smaller surpluses, having something that you do not have: real credibility and real will to implement substantial reforms. Because the high surpluses, which unfortunately are binding on the country, are the result of your unreliability. It is the result of the first six months of 2015, of Mr Varoufakis's policy. They are the results of the party state, which is still growing, of the contractors, to whom you promise simulations. High surpluses are the result of a policy which unfortunately reverts to public life the worst features which led the country to bankruptcy. We, Mr Tsipras, therefore, set the objective of reducing primary surpluses in a straightforward and honest manner. We invite you to follow on this course as well. And here it will really look like who cares for the good of the Greeks and who cares only for the good of his party. We shall therefore speak from now on about the elections for our own good reason, about the commitments we make, about our programme. I do not see Mrs Ghosts here, but, because I am tired of hearing KINAL saying that we have no programme, we do not have positions, please, Mr Loverdo, give this form, which she presents the positions of the New Democracy, Mrs Gennamas, so that you do not constantly mix the same things, because you are a little behind. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So these positions will be brought to light by us - despite SYRIZA's efforts to distort our positions - and nothing, but nothing, will stifle the vast majority of the current being formed. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, why is this concern in the Chamber today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u361	Hey, what can I tell you? Mr. Kotzias, Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Scandalidis are constantly speaking. Please, hold on, it's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u362	You can also give our publication to Mr Kotzia if he wants to read it and study it too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We know you'll do everything you can to stay a few more months in power. You will try to transfer the national elections as long as you can, even try to reach the end of the four-year period. But you cannot, gentlemen, go against the dynamics of things. In the self-government and regional elections your government will be scanned. And the European elections, if there are no national elections then, will become a referendum, with the slogan that is called eight out of ten Greeks, to prove in practice too: go, go, go. Because Greece deserves better. Together we can and we'll finally take the country forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u363	Ladies and gentlemen, by the President of the Group of Independent Greeks Mr Kammenos the following letter was sent to me: "Mr. President, I tell you that MP Papachristopoulos Athanasios from February 8, 2019 is not part of the Parliamentary Group "National Patriot Democratic Alliance".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u364	Before giving the floor to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health will speak for two minutes on a crucial issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u365	You are not allowed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u366	Please, Mr. Tragakis. We're talking about people's health and flu. It's not a political controversy. For God's sake! The President asked for information. It's a very delicate matter. Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u367	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because Mr Mitsotakis started in his speech by making a reference to a topical issue of public health, very sensitive and very serious, which requires responsibility, I would like to give a brief answer. We are at a time when there is an epidemic of influenza across Europe. It is a particularly virulent strain this year, resulting in several deaths, mainly in vulnerable population groups that are invasive. In France there are a thousand deaths, Mr Mitsotakis, to have an image, namely that this is not a phenomenon that can be dealt with politically. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] There has been the best possible preparation in our country this year for this matter. We've had the greatest vaccination coverage of the population ever. Over two million vaccines have been made this year for the flu virus, when a few years ago it was about four hundred to one five hundred. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have at this time ensured that there is both adequate vaccines and adequate antiviral medicines. Of course, from seventy - three serious cases of flu, sixty - five are already hospitalized in ICU. So the country's public IDs, which have indeed problems and difficulties, respond and effectively heal those in need. You're welcome, then, greater responsibility. The scientific community of the country yesterday gave a detailed press conference. The infectious, epidemiologists, the National Committee for Vaccines have provided detailed information that does not substantiate this climate, which you want to create, insecurity and panic in society. I think he needs temper, seriousness from all of us and responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u368	Thank you. It was a useful intervention. The President and President of SYRIZA Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Mitsotakis, I guess something didn't go well at the previous meeting. You have spoken about sixty minutes - I am sixty-seven - about the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement and today you have come to repeat exactly the same arguments. Repeat is, of course, but to find out about the need to do this, something didn't go well at the previous meeting, especially in the way that the citizens hired your arguments, which we heard, we did it again and we did it again today. Of course, you made an innovation today. You started your position by risking once again on a critical social issue, which has nothing to do with the agreement, of course, but public health. It's a deadly flu across Europe, not only in Greece. But, once again, you tried to jeopardize. I think the Minister for Health answered you with due seriousness in relation to the number of vaccinations this year. However, since you said something more, which the Minister did not comment on, I would like to ask you that there are not enough beds in intensive care units. Would you like to compare how many open units and how many beds we found in 2015 and how many there are today? It was four hundred and thirty-eight in 2015, when we took over, and today there are five hundred sixty beds, without counting heart surgery and of course the beds in the care facilities. Or do you want to remember what was happening in the country in 2012 and 2013, at the most critical moment of the crisis, when hundreds of thousands, millions of our fellow citizens, due to the inability to cover their insurance obligations, were outside the public health system, without having free access, as we decided and implemented immediately afterwards, when mainly in neighbourhoods, in entire populace areas with poor populace layers in the Attica region, there was a strong phenomenon that young children did not emigrate. That was the reality. And then you criticised us because we were talking about a humanitarian crisis. That is why we were talking about a humanitarian crisis, and that is why the first steps we have taken were to deal with this problem, to deal with those who most need, who do not have the economic potential even to inoculate their children, by exercising the self-evident right to preventive medicine in a European country. This country has been received. And you come in today and you're in danger once again. In everything you're in danger, you don't do anything different. There's no question that you haven't followed this folded-up danger. Three years now you've been asking for elections, Mr. Mitsotakis. You didn't originalize, you asked today. Of course, now it is not enough to ask for elections in Greece, you are also asking for Venezuela. There'll probably be a quicker election, Mr. Mitsotakis. In Greece the elections will take place at the end of the four-year period, take the ham. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I think you have shown today that you are starting to understand that it will take place at the end of the four-year period. And this is a proof of the return to normality, it is a proof of our insistence on the path of stability, which the economy needs now that we have come out of the crisis, and it is also a proof of political consistency. You are constantly going out in the last few days, apart from today's speech - because you had done a prophecy, that in 2019 there will be elections, yes, there will be elections - but in the last few days you have been constantly saying that there will be double elections. Mr. Mitsotakis, look, in the poll of the European elections you will suffer a defiance of your expectations, because the entire Greek people will understand that this scheme that you set up three years ago, with false measurements that have never fallen in, with the media that support you, was a gennaki, which you set up in order to create a false picture in Greek society. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And on the day after the European elections and on the road to the polls, which will come at the end of the four-year period, you will probably, on the very next day, have the big problem, explain to the Greek people and to your party why these percentages, because this failure, because you have disproved the high expectations you have created. You're self-sufficient. You'll fall into your trap one more time. You set up your traps on your own, as you set up yourself and all the traps in which you fell in, all of them: The fact that we didn't come out of the memorials, you said it, you made it. The fact that the evaluations, you said so, were not going to end. That pensions would be reduced, you said it, you used to do it. The fact that the government will not be able to pass the Prespecies Agreement, you said it, you did it. I have forgotten the famous story, the last one that has been disproved, and at the previous sitting here you told me that the country will not come out on the market because interest is forbidding. The country came out on the markets again. What record now, Mr. Mitsotakis, will you use? What's the story? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Do you no longer realize that you are in danger of being classified as the political leader whose accounts have been disproved? I would really like to congratulate you on the dreadful political insight and political insight, because it is not only those prophecies which have been disproved, the day after the political disagreement and the rupture that we had with the so-called government partner, what have you come out of telling the Greek people? That it's bad for the divorce, that the disagreement, that they've found and laughed at, that it's all set up. And of course, the established divorce, the chicnic divorce then became the same blackmailing divorce. Do you not understand that the Greek people are watching you and are constantly watching you lie and, of course, predictions that are being disproved? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You are now telling us that the parliamentary majority, which was recorded through the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, the vote of confidence which the government requested and took before the crucial vote on the Ambassadors' agreement, is institutional arbitrary. You who, despite the fact that you were constantly posing as a cock, have not dared to table a motion of distrust to see how waste the sack is, now that we had the courage and parliamentary virtue to ask for a vote of confidence, you are talking about institutional arbitrary and phenomena that the Greek Parliament has never lived before. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm sorry, but once again, reality disguises you. And of course, to close this introductory circle, you have reached the point today, having a good friend here apparently, Mr. Weber, who, all right, don't think that everyone in the European People's Party is very happy that Mr. Weber is a candidate, is well known, Bavarian, belongs to the right-wing tendency of the European People's Party and I have a feeling...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u370	That's what Mrs. Merkel tells you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u371	What did you say, Mrs. Vulture? Of course, Mrs. Merkel, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u372	Please, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u373	We'll get to Mrs. Merkel now, don't worry, we'll get to her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u374	She's briefing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u375	You're not a reporter here, Mr. Buddhism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u376	So, Mr. Webber was the one to whom you had put all your hopes, Mr. Mitsotakis, trying to convince and find a means of communication with the German Government so that the German Government would set its feet against Greece and prevent the miserable SYRIZA and his Government from making games against the European institutions by not applying the voted pension cut. That was Mr. Webber and that was you last summer. And today, with Mr Webber's backs, you come to criticise us. Why? For primary surpluses. Do you forget what you signed? 4.5% in the dictionaries, didn't you, Mr. Mitsotakis? Do you mind 3.5% today? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And of course, Mr Mitsotakis, I am here, whenever you want to change your tactics, because until now your tactics are the undermining of the government's effort in every negotiation effort. If you've changed your mind and you want to support our efforts to go together to claim something better, I'm here, I'll follow you. But you are acting, Mr Mitsotakis, and the Greek people are following this. And do you know something about the Change Movement - I do not see Mrs Gennamas here, but I see the Members of the Change Movement - I really do not understand what space you belong to the European property? Which area do you belong to? [[Noise in the Chamber]] By listening to Mr Mitsotakis' views and Mr Mitsotakis' positions, I understand that you are also signing the last perfection of what he says. Your criticism, your criticism of the government in all matters...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Kotzia, please be quiet. I'll call names now. Mr. Amyras, Mr. Gregoraco, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u378	The criticism you make on all issues, from economic issues to foreign policy issues to the government, is from the first word to the last word, identical to Mr Mitsotakis' criticism. I don't know if that's why you gave them your program to be identified even more, read it and identify them even more. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For your bad luck, however, in Europe there are socialist parties that do not match the extreme positions taken by the New Democracy even within the European People's Party. And today Udo Bulman, the head of the European Parliament of Socialists and Democrats, made a statement commenting on Mr Weber's position in Athens today that he needs a new government in Greece and all that he said, because he said more. Do you know what Mr. Bullman said? He said that Mr. Weber should stop imagining an economic coup in Greece and scripts to overthrow the Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, whose government led Greece out of the crisis. That's what Mr. Bullman said. It's not me, it's not Madour and the extremists on the left. Socialists call it that. You here in Greece are identified with the extreme right of Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But soon, you will understand that this is a self-destructive strategy, because we do not want to shrink, as you accuse us, to loot the area of the Central Left. We want the Central Left to be strong, because we know that there cannot be progressive left-wing governance with nothing. We want a centre-left, but not a centre-left, not right. We need a real Central Left. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we wonder if your goal for SYRIZA's strategic defeat, which at the same time means a strategic victory for the New Democracy, can be an explanation to the world of Central Left and to your voters. Because if you are matched to everything with Mr Mitsotakis, who himself says that the next elections will be of a referendum, then why would anyone vote for you, if you believe in what you say, and not vote on Mr Mitsotakis? So, then, this strategy of your SYRIZA strategic defeat will ultimately be the strategic defeat of your own political area. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I now come to foreign policy. You know, Mr Mitsotakis, there is a field of political controversy that all political forces and, in particular, so-called power parties have gone with responsibility and wisdom in this place. Of course there are differences in foreign policy issues arising from the ideological and political identity of each party. But there has always been a limit. You have exceeded that limit. Today I heard you say the same arguments again and say to us once again that we have sold out in exchange for things which you have claimed and kept me strong in all previous years. And what are these? Language and ethnicity. Of course they have been answered, but very briefly let me say again - repetition of learning mother - and I have some brief and concise arguments. Mr. Mitsotakis, you told us that we recognized a Macedonian nation. Once again, I tell you that you have not read the Ambassadors' Agreement or that you do not read it, in particular Article 7 thereof. And today you have taken a step further. You tried to cover the unfortunate and unfortunate statement and executives of inter-ethnics who will be candidates for your party next time - a statement by your Vice-President, Mr Georgiadis, who said that he - today I imagine you also welcome him, so your party - does not recognise, despite the ratification of the agreement, Northern Macedonia. And in order to explain this, in a somewhat contradictory manner what Mr Georgiadis said, you told us that you would never welcome the Skopje Prime Minister in Greece and asked me if I would call him "Macedona". Mr. Mitsotakis, I'll call him. as the agreement itself gives me the right to agree and as all the other leaders in the world will call it and you will see it, you will see from the next few days that the agreement will enter into force. I shall, therefore, welcome him as the Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia, as the Slobomacedonian Prime Minister, because that right also gives me the agreement, as the Northern Macedonian Prime Minister, because that right also gives me the agreement, but you will never do so. You'll welcome him, you say, as a Macedonian Prime Minister. And you will never do it for two reasons. The first is why the nationalist tendency of your party and Mr. Georgiadis does not leave you. And the second reason is why, Mr Mitsotakis, you will not become Prime Minister to welcome the Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You will remain on the sidelines of history along with these extremes who criticise the national interests of our country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You also told us the other one today - and you addressed the Minister of National Defence - that he would allegedly welcome the 'Macedonian army' to NATO. Again, deliberately, you are inaccurate in this Chamber. Because you are well aware that the official name in NATO will be "North Macedonia's Army", an army that should be friendly and ally to Greece, an army that should not turn its arrows to Greece, an army that should not look at and look at third forces in the region, but along with the Greek Armed Forces to form, together, a pillar of stability and security in a troubled region of the Balkans. Of course, all of this once again, you raised it with the same argument that I had the opportunity of you for many years now to bring such an agreement, erga omnes with constitutional change, but you did not, allegedly, because there was the great issue of ethnicity and language, a language that was recognised in 1977 with your own governments and, of course, in 1994 it was officially registered as ISO and you did not raise any objections and of course not of citizenship - because you have always deliberately taken the same smuggling - which is in the passports of those people who come to Greece all the previous years, with your own governments. Of course, you did not take care in 2009, when visas were made in the Schengen Treaty, you did not accept the lifting of visas in Schengen by reference to another, but only accepted the report 'Macedonians' as a whole, not now that we call 'citizens of Northern Macedonia'. The same, of course, argument over and over, which is why I invoked the aunts. Did you see what you were doing to me, Mr. Mitsotakis? You're forcing me to invoke the aunts. Same argument over and over. All we did not hear today from you was the intelligent and very successful argument that you read from your papers last time about Macedonian peaches. I would therefore like to assure you that we do not. Read what statement the President of the Association of Industries of Northern Greece has made in the past few days, Mr Savvakis, who is not a SYRIZA man, who clearly stated that Macedonian PDO products of Greece are guaranteed and there is no such issue. Mr Mitsotakis, you forced me to repeat many of the arguments that were heard last time. But I would like to ask you a rhetorical question today. If you want to answer now, if you want another time. Because you will remember at a meeting, one of the many things we have done here, and we discussed foreign policy issues, I mentioned an unsuccessful wording of you in the magazine 'POLITICO', which you disproved. I have tabled to the Minutes - you said that I am lying, that I am a liar, that is not the first time you say it - the exact wording from the Internet of this website, which at least this wording has brought you to speak about separatist tendencies in our country. However, I have accepted - in good faith - your position that your statement has been distorted and I have not insisted, because I do not want to have a political confrontation with communication findings, but I want to make a real political controversy. I accepted your position. However, I was very surprised to read last Monday in the domestic press and it was the main issue in the newspaper "ESTIA" with the signature of a well-known journalist, who usually has a good story from your political area, that at your meeting with German Chancellor Ms. Merkel, when she visited Athens a few days ago, you told her that you would not allow northern Greece to become Catalonia. Really, I wonder if you said that, do you understand exactly what you said? Did you like German Chancellor the northern part of the Greek territory, namely Greece, with an autonomous region of the Spanish state, which has an autonomous parliament and in which a large part of the inhabitants define themselves ethnicly differently from the Spanish and speak different language and historically there are different tendencies within the separatist region now, which, due to the recent referendum, have been strengthened? Is that what you did?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u379	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u380	Do you really understand, Mr. Mitsotakis, how dangerous is this insurmountable proportion you have attempted? I think there are no escapades today. You have two choices, clean things. Or you will deny the front page of "ESTIA", you will deny that this was a statement of your own to German Chancellor or you will have to apologize publicly, primarily to the North Elders,... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...who neither have separatist tendencies nor speak another language nor have another nation!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u381	Be quiet, please. Mr. Georgioda, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u382	Mr Mitsotakis, I would ask you to be a little more serious when you are suppressing national issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u383	Be quiet, Mr. Georgioda. Don't go on, you forced me to mention your name! They see us hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u384	So I would ask you to be a little more serious when you are swallowing critical national issues. It had not yet left the state aircraft from Elefsina airport on my visit to Ankara, for my meeting with Turkish President Erdogan and foreshadow, before the aircraft even took off, to make statements. You have rushed to pre-empt that this visit will be crowned with failure. Before you even see the results, the statements, what happened there, you rushed to pre-empt it, to make a diagnosis, to tell us it wasn't well prepared. And of course, despite the fact that all of Greece saw a different picture from the one we had in our previous visit by the Turkish President here - who opened issues that were answered in any way and in relation to the circumstances and everything, it did not open anything like this the other day - despite the fact that all Greece saw the historic symbolism visits to very important monuments of Hellenism, especially at the Theological School of Halki, you insisted on the same analysis, propaganda, arguments, just as you had prepared it, before the state aircraft even left the military airport of Elefsis. Of course, the next day, because the Greek people, your serious analysts, your great executives, have only remained to comment on the color of a cat who happened to pass by me at the time of a special historical load of visiting a monument of Hellenism and world cultural heritage. I can understand why, perhaps, the colour of the cat coincides with the color of your opposition rhetoric and your opposition criticism of our national issues all these years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, I will tell you, Mr Mitsotakis, that you may think that these issues are free to say a word more and, in national matters, they are free for opposition to take extreme positions, but that is not the case. You're wrong. You're Chief of Officer Opposition. You are responsible for respecting the history of your resignation, but also for the history of the country and the people of that country. You cannot always put opposition ties on such critical national issues. But you have chosen to place yourself on national issues, as it turns out, on the basis of what you see as a party interest, and especially in recent years on the basis of the appetites of an extreme wing of your party. I'll tell you once more clearly. Not only is this attitude irresponsible, but it is also a attitude of nationally dangerous. Why, over time, there has been a danger of the extortion of the Greek extreme right and the extortion of nationalist rhetoric in all the manifestations in our country, with regard to all our critical national issues. And with regard to the crucial issue, which you always raise, in order to insist at difficult times on having open channels of communication with the Turkish leadership and President Erdogan, I will tell you that the open channels are beneficial for the country and are beneficial for the country to the extent that we have confidence that our arguments are strong under International Law and we need to constantly repeat them and have open channels of communication in a critical period, with many tensions and turbulence in the wider region. You say the opposite once again. You also told me from this step that this visit was a failure. I didn't understand what was wrong with you. And in any case, what do you want us to do as a government? Shouldn't we talk to anyone? The same attitude you do not only take with regard to Greek-Turkish. The same attitude is being taken on all foreign policy issues. Look out, you don't make a position. You just disagree about everything. In other words, you disagree with a foreign policy that is active and multi-dimensional, which is self-confidence. You disagree with an external policy, which has also been recognised by the European and international players and has upgraded Greece's role in the international sphere. But you are not telling us exactly what your position is, your position is. You're only telling us: "Don't talk, don't solve Macedonian. Leave it like it was thirty years ago! Leave it," as you left it. You say to us: 'Do not encourage the accession of the neighbouring country to the European Union'. You say to us: 'Do not go into discussions on improving relations with Albania'. We are told: 'Don't talk about Turkey'. An absolute "don't", inertia. I can only assume that on your basis of this attitude to foreign policy. Or do you not understand the need for Greece to upgrade its role in the wider region of the Balkans and the south-eastern Mediterranean - that is, you are out of place and time - or choose that Greece should not have an autonomous foreign policy and simply obey the positions of the most powerful states. So you're dangerous.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u385	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u386	Of course, I will not ask you what is the case, because it is very likely that a third version will apply, that is, at the same time, to both be out of place and time and also dangerous at the same time. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But let me refer to two further points. It concerns these threats, which you have repeated, in relation to the veto of Greece for the accession negotiations of the neighbour, Northern Macedonia, in the European Union. First of all we are talking - to understand the world that listens to us - about a process which, if completed, will be completed not tomorrow or tomorrow, but by 2030. So to nourish this audience to which you have been insistingly addressing it lately - which cannot understand how it is possible to be such a tough mobster, since it is like saying that you will do nothing to change this agreement - you sell free scars with your so-called courageous and irresponsible attitude. For something that will be completed in 2030, you tell us that you will make a very important and heroic move, that is to say, to veto. The second thing we need to know is that this is a tool - of course each country, which is in an accession process and which each country of the European Union has - incomprehensible. No one takes it away from us, and in particular the Ambassadors' Agreement. There are more than thirty-five different veto rights in opening up the funds and closing the funds in this process, which are nowhere limited by the Prespecies Agreement, if northern Macedonia of course does not fulfil its obligations. They are obligations arising from this agreement and from the so-called European acquis. The third and most important - because those two I have said are rather technical issues - is the essential one. Do you really think the country should aim to prevent the European path of Northern Macedonia and thus the European path of its neighbours? Tell me clearly. Does Greece have any interest in the European course of all its neighbours and not just Northern Macedonia? Does the country have any interest in the influence of third parties in its neighborhood, with other views and other pursuits in the Balkan region? Or is it in the interest of this process to be completed as soon as possible in compliance with both Northern Macedonia and other our neighbours in the European acquis and their obligations, arising from the Prespecies Agreement, in this case, but more generally from the conditions of reform and democratisation laid down in the so-called social acquis? Do we have a good interest or is it against us? Because if you support vetos in the enlargement of the European Union to the Balkans, you are no longer questioning a permanent Greek position, as was formed by the Thessaloniki summit, the most famous 'Thessaloniki' - this is how everyone discusses it in the European Union - but you are questioning a timeless European position. So much has this extreme wing of your party affected you, Mr. Mitsotakis? Dispute fundamental principles shared by almost all the political families of the European Union? I say the whole - well understood - because of course there are right-wing and nationalists who act in Europe many times and in the interests of third parties, for interests other than Europe, who will rub their hands if they know that you share the same positions. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this attitude and position which we are seeing for the first time from the point of view of Officerial Representation, New Democracy, is a attitude and a position which does not favour the interests of the country. And I want to make it clear. And I would like to ask these questions sometime to get answers. I would like to close, however, so that I do not get any further, saying that the choice of northern Macedonia to become a member of NATO. Because you have forgotten that this is what we are talking about today. The other things we discussed in the previous procedure. And you have not been able to explain to us to the extent that the agreement has been ratified and to the extent that you, as you say, are not going to try to overthrow it - you will not succeed - if you ever take the country's governance, why do you deny that country's membership of NATO? You didn't give convincing answers to that. The only ones who can give convincing answers are probably in the Communist Party. It has a position and a view of this, and it concerns NATO. However, I would like to say that this decision is not our decision at the end of the day. It is a decision concerning the neighbouring people themselves. It's a choice of northern Macedonia. It is their sovereign right and sovereign right of its people and their elected government to decide to join NATO. As the sovereign right is, and the relationships they may decide to have with any other country they want, of course, by complying with the commitments under international law and by joining the organisations that will choose to join. Their sovereign right will probably be if they choose, and we will urge them to choose, to have, like us, a multi-dimensional foreign policy. So today's vote is the vote which, in my view, closes a major cycle, the most important one, of the obligations arising from the historic Prespecies Agreement concerning Greece. From tomorrow with the ratification of accession, as provided for in the agreement itself, the obligations will come back to our neighbours, who will have to send an official request to all the countries of the United Nations, to all the agencies, and to some forty countries, which so far recognise it under the term 'Macedonia'. You will see all the major international news media how they presented the ratification of the agreement from the Greek Parliament. They said: “Macedonia” changes name and becomes “North Macedonia”," they said. In fact, the media that supports you have not rushed to repeat the same mixed food you have presented to us today, but they have rushed to accuse Mr Zaev, who, he says, does not apply the agreement. Obviously, they were also smuggling there because they know that the obligation to implement it has been ratified and the NATO protocol has been ratified. But I wonder if your problem is that Zafe doesn't apply it, then it's probably a good deal and the problem is that Zafe doesn't apply it and it's not a bad deal. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So Zaev, the Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia, from tomorrow and his country and his government will have a difficult job to do. They should send the official request to all the countries of the United Nations, so that, from now on, they do not call them "Macedonia", but they are called "North Macedonia". They should do the same in their public speech and in all their names, all the labels they have in the public buildings and in their public documents. I would once again like to welcome from this step of northern Macedonia, a country that is friendly to Greece, a country that should be a support and not an adversary to our efforts to establish security, stability and cooperation in the wider region. And to say, by going down from Stepma, Mr. Mitsotakis, we will all be judged. The Greek people will judge us. We're going to be judged by history. I, feel that we have done our patriotic duty against threats against extortion. I think we did the right thing. I don't blame you if you have another point of view. But I tell you that very soon the Greek people will judge us and history will judge us and especially the next generations. I am proud of the attitude of the Members who have voted to ratify the agreement and those who today will complete this historic effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is adjourned at the end of the day: 'Definition of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u388	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u389	Please, there is no process of denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u390	Such anxiety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u391	Personal matters have not arisen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u392	It's political. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u393	Politicians have emerged and are present. If possible, I would ask you to proceed because Members were also notified about 19.00 and it is after two and a half hours. There has been no serious personal issue that would force a Chief to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u394	There will be a roll-call vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Definition of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia", in accordance with Rule 72(1)(c) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The roll-call vote has been requested by the President of Parliament under the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentarians Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy are on the list. The acceptance of the draft law is "WHEN". Those who fail to accept the draft law say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. I would like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, in which they state their vote on the draft law. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u395	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u396	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my colleagues and I have a point of order. Georgios Kasapidis, Evangelos Venizelos, Eftathios Panagou, Theodoros Papatheodorou, Friday (Evi) Christophilopoulou will not be present in today's vote and they know by letter that if they were present they would vote "OH". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u397	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u398	Ladies and gentlemen, until the count is completed, I will make two announcements. First, Members Athanasios Papachristopoulos, by letter to the President of Parliament, announces: "Mr President of Parliament, I would like to inform you in this letter that I resign from the office of MP II Athens. Thank you very much for our cooperation so far. With appreciation, Athanasios Papachristopoulos".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u399	I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Culture and Sport, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Home Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Administrative Reconstruction, the Deputy Minister of Finance, and the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development and Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 8-2-2019: 'Creating a child station in the Ministry of Culture and Sport, regulating the issues of the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, repealing the Organisation of the New Acropolis Museum and other provisions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u400	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter the roll-call voting protocol p. 452.a.]] A total of 294 Members voted. In favour of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. "NAI", 153 MPs voted. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Against the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. 'OH', 140 MPs voted. Vote for a roll-call vote 1 Member, in accordance with the following roll-call vote:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u401	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Following the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u402	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u403	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-08-S1-commons.u404	With the consent of the House at 21.57 the sitting for the next Monday, 11 February 2019, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
