ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 11 January 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 251/7-1-2019 topical question by MP Kastoria of New Democracy Mrs Maria Antonios to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Examination of student relocation objections". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 252/7-1-2019, a topical question by Congressman I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate on topical and urgent questions, I will first announce questions which will not be debated as a result of a failure by the relevant ministers. The first, with number 249/7-1-2019, top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Questions for the operation of the Intellectual Property Organisation", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr.Mirsini Zorba. The third, with number 255/8-1-2019, timely question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Actions of mistakes in the security code and the specialty of various foresters" will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Athanasios Eliopoulos. The second question, under number 246/7-1-2019, on a second question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The Government is dissatisfied against private sector workers from not recovering, for the purposes of housing rehabilitation, the remaining 1% of their earnings", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the State Secretary, Mr. Athanasios Eliopoulos. There is also a letter from the Secretary of Government. We begin with the second, with the number 245/4-1-2019 timely question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and the Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Independence of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "No fishing in more than 75% of the Vintzotrat fishermen". The current question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Stavros Arachovitis. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the issue is well-known for years, namely that the vegetarians have been in conflict with the trawls. The trawls are more powerful economics and the violets are stronger economics. The question is, of course, who is more destroying the seabed. And it is a pan-European issue, it has dealt with Europe, it is still a matter of concern. There have been studies. Some of them are obscure, but most of them are positive. But regardless of the studies, there is people's lives. Most of these people are barely able to live their families. Most are not a university teacher's educational level. Some of them are unwrought. Why am I saying that? Because there is the subject of the online calendar, you realize that if one cannot understand it or is alone to complete it, weak and complete it. So it is a problem essential to these people when, on New Year's Day, they are told: you will not be able to live your families in the new year. That's where it's going. It's purely social. What does that mean? It means that in all ways, even legislative, they must be given the opportunity to supplement this information which has been completed by their other colleagues, who have been licensed, that is to say, so that socially at least this phenomenon will cease to exist. There must be this famous social sensitivity. It must be given immediately, on any grounds which may exist and may be legally based. Because there are legal opinions that say they don't have a basis. I say it might have a base. However, it must be possible, even by amendment, for these people to work until they can restore what they have typically not done to date, so that these people can live. Is this fundamental question, they took me New Year's Days to express their agony to me, that is, "What will our families do now?" It's just a matter of survival. With regard to the subject of the vegetarian - because I too, in my capacity at the time, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, was involved - the European Union did indeed have a thought. And I told you, Minister, that. It is twofold: the virzotrat in general in Europe and in the sea and the vinyltrat in the border regions. I myself saw Turkish fishermen outside St. Marina Leros fishing with their vetoes myself. The question is whether we are protecting the sea, the sea, but which is not already protected, because the friend country, the neighbouring country, does not belong to the European Union and is not obliged to accept the dictators of Europeans, so the problem is a major one. So the vintzotrat is a vitzotratta for Greece, vitzotratata for the border regions, vitzotratata for Lero, for Kos, etc., which is in the border regions. I would like your position to draw a positive conclusion to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Wish us all a good year, with health and optimism around the world. Mr President, I would like to thank you very sincerely for the question, because it is an opportunity from this step to clarify some of the things that have been done about Vinzotrat as a tool, as you said, but also what has happened these days. As you said, the vivotra is a tool that has been strongly criticised at European Union level and has been very concerned about whether or not this tool should be in operation. It's one, I stress, of the powerful tools. It shall be considered as a dynamic fishing gear. However, fishermen authorised to fish on vessels do not only have a licence to fish for veto trawls. They also have other tools, like all coastal fishermen. So since their fishing authorisation is in force, they can fish with the other gears. To clarify one by one. However, I'm going to make a small regression. In application of the provisions of Regulation 1967/2006 and the delegated national legislation of Article 9 of Law 2732/1999, Ministerial Decision 6719/146097/29-12/2016 was adopted. This is, therefore, the regulatory framework that provides for the terms and conditions of fishing with the specific potential instrument, the Vinzotrat. This ministerial decision is, in fact, what is it? It describes the management plan on the basis of which the European Union has authorised fishing using this gear, data collection and specific types of target species in our country. After seeing the regulatory framework, we are coming to today. So today, what does it say? By the ministerial decision - mentioned - in December 2016, the country was authorised to fish. Article 6 provides for the conditions and conditions for fishing to be carried out. I shall read to you in particular paragraph 2: ‘Fishery licences shall be issued to vessels authorised to fish for all gears...’ - including that gear and vibzotrat - ‘... have installed a VMS satellite monitoring device and keep an electronic logbook for their fishing activity in the ERS, as provided for in Articles 9 and 15 of Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009.’ So what does that say? In order to be authorised for the following year, the catch logbook should be kept without delay in accordance with the wording of the Ministerial Decision and in accordance with the management plan submitted and approved by the European Union. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In cases, therefore, where it was found by the services that we did not comply with this condition, no authorisation was granted next year. It's not that no license was removed. It's not like there was a penalty or a penalty. You know that vinyl trawls two quarters: The first quarter of the year of January - February - March and the last one that is October - November - December. We had cases of vessels that had no record in the first quarter, and yet they normally fished in the second quarter, because it is not provided for in this ministerial decision to ratify, to withdraw licences. It is, however, clearly foreseen that the legislation laid down for renewal should be complied with next year. We recognise that there are cases where, for various reasons, this requirement was not fully complied with by 100%, and indeed there were specific reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u6	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u7	Of course, I will finish my sentence. That is why, in order to exhaust the maximum leniency and understanding, we have proceeded with the possibility - provided for by the Constitution - of submitting a hierarchical appeal to the Minister for the examination - once the grounds for not complying with this obligation have been established, in order to examine the reasons for the fishermen. And I'll tell you in dentistry next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u9	What I would like it to be clarified, Minister, is that in any way, with any intervention of your own, people will not stop their work. That's the basic thing. So, in your dentext to reassure them that they will continue their work for a certain period of time until they complete the electronic calendar. This is essential because if they stop working, they will stop and their families live. It is very important that this should be clarified. The second is that I, at least, were told by these interlocutors that they had no other tools. They may - as you say - have. But I was told they don't have any more tools. They only live from it. This is an issue that you need to see. What matters, however, to calm people down is in your denture to make it clear that they can live. It's essential. And when we say that the government is interested in the poor and weak, it must prove that in practice. So there is no reason why the press 'have not completed their papers correctly' for people who - as I said - do not belong to university teachers. There are some who haven't been to school. So you realise that there must be an understanding in this whole matter, Minister. I believe in your dentistry that these people should be reassured that at least in this situation that they are currently in will fill out their documents and continue to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u10	Minister, answer the question only. The institutional framework is analyzed. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going back to the institutional framework. I would point out again, however, that, as I said at the outset and as the institutional framework says, the fishing licence for vegetarian trawls is a tool which complements since there is a licence for fishing in general for all other gears. So all the other tools are used by the licensee for vintage trawlers and they can use them. There is therefore no question of unemployment or their survival. Many of them have focused on this tool. They've been specialized - if you'd like - and I recognize it. I told you once again that we would see it with the greatest indulgence and understanding. However, from this step I would like to stress that under no circumstances will we accept circumvention of both the terms and conditions of a management plan that has been approved to us. Why do you understand that there are extensions, that there are consequences for both the country and for all of us? So keeping legality for me and for all of us is - I do not think anyone will disagree in this Chamber - the absolute priority. We must respect the legitimacy. Finally, I want to assure you that last week we received the first applications for treatment, hierarchical appeals. This week the legal service along with the Ministry's services and me personally we are examining these applications for treatment. We see where there was a weakness or omission or a bad supplement. In some cases we have a poor completion, i.e. two days to be completed in one. We've got cases like this. Since that is justified, we have no objection to the granting of licences, it is enough that we have any reason to press and allow us to resolve our hands in order to give the permits. And I can tell you from the Stepma that tomorrow we will have the first answers to the requests for treatment that have been submitted to us since last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u12	We move on to the first with number 250/7-1-2019, a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy, Anastasios Prussakis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Notice of the promises of compensation for farmers in the Prefecture of Evros'. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, thank you very much for your wishes and we hope that they will also take place. Unfortunately, however, the farmers of Evros spent a "black" Christmas. They expected the Minister for Rural Development as the Holy Kingdom to keep his promises, which he had made at the summit - so my compatriots called it - which was held after successive meetings and protests, accelerating the local factors of all kinds and categories. You have made the promise that by submitting the budget you will give answers to our questions and solutions to their problems. Sadly, however, you are not consistent and bear it heavyly. The situation in Evros is not good. Mr President, Evros is not an accidental prefecture, like the islands, which was previously represented by my colleague - in the Dodecanese. If the central state fails to solve their problems - they are also captains and national guards - how are we going to keep this county? Only with the regular army do you think we can keep the country's defense? I think we are not seeing the problem from the national point of view. Your disgrace and indifference about the fact that the primary sector is sinking in an outlying area have disappointed all the residents of the prefecture, because everyone depends on the primary sector. They expected your words and promises to be done, but they have not. We have proposed that you activated the de minimis regulation on damaged crops because of weather phenomena, because of diseases and unfortunately you have not done so. We suggested that you should address the European Union and, indeed, the Greek Permanent Representation, which could help, and the Climate Change Fund, which Germany had asked for. We had footprints to press. Unfortunately, you did not. I think you've wronged these people. That is why I turned the written question into a timely one, Mr President. And that is why I ask you: what is their payment schedule, but with evidence, not promises? What about the plaque to the cotton growers? We have asked for another timely question to be removed from the first moment and in good time rather than into the disgraceful process, which you know very well. Have you secured the appropriate financial instruments either in terms of a Greek state or in terms of the European Union? We expect with interest, Minister, to hear your views and your answers to the key questions, which I would really like to point out in capital letters that they are too, but too great. Get down to Evros' problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u14	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Prussakis, for the question. I'm not Santa Claus, but I served in Evros. Eleven months of my term of office I've spent them in Evros, so I know very well how living conditions are and how living conditions are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u16	Then be careful what answer you will give.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u17	That's right. So because I am not Santa Claus, the ministry came to me a little earlier on 14-12-2018, my birthday day, but that doesn't matter, where the exceptional support was granted - financial support to farmers, de Minimis, and the farmers of Thrace received 1.6 million euros. A few days later, on 20 December, before the budget was passed, both, as you said - as I promised - the tobacco producers of Thrace and neighbouring prefectures, the growers of the 'basma' received 8.2 million aid. Why? It is precisely because we have had a great deal of qualitative and quantitative deterioration of tobacco and especially of the 'basma' variety. Even the tobacco producers in Evros received the maximum aid, which was 100 euros per acre, while neighbouring counties with fewer losses received less aid per acre. So that is exactly what we said before the budget was adopted, as we promised. At the same time, in Evros for the losses we had in 2017 from similar phenomena that were covered by the ELGA regulation, we had compensations of EUR 3,186 000. For the damages of 2018 covered by the Regulation, I already inform you that the reporting procedures for the findings have been completed and we proceed with the payment of the ELGA compensation for the damages covered to the insurance information. And here I'll give you a date. The payments of the 2018 allowances will be made in January 2019, in the current month, in the following days. Now, on the issue of support, which you say, at the great meeting with the institutions in my Ministry, we had raised the issue of other crops from which other financial instruments can we have support. One tool we have said and we are moving forward in the process is through the CEECs, the State Economic Aid, which is part of the CEECs, where a file is being prepared. You are all well aware that there is a procedure for the JETs where specific damage, a certain percentage, should be documented. The dossier is being prepared for a number of crops to follow the process of depositing, approving, to reach the disbursement and these amounts. As far as de Minimis is concerned, in December last year more than 50 000 000 de minimis state aid was given to us, that is about half the 109 000 000 that we have had for three years. Half the three-year period was given only in December 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u18	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u19	Throughout Greece, those who had the greatest needs. The damage, as you know, has been many. We had damages covered by the ELGA that have gone their way. They're already getting paid. In December 2018, losses were paid. In other words, the process is too accelerated. Damages to Evros will be paid in January 2019, i.e. since March 2018 when the damage was done will be paid in January 2019, within the 12-month period, less than the 12-month period. And we move on to non-covered ones who can't go to the CEECs with de minimis, what can go to the CEECs through the CEECs. We are preparing a documentary file so that we also have funding there. In my dentistry, Mr President, I shall reply to you on what other actions have been taken outside the country because of the climatic conditions last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Pschakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you've confused things. Here you do not make programme statements as a Minister or an account of rural development, that is, what you did for the other items of your ministry or for other areas. We are talking about a specific problem here. We're talking about Evros. We're talking about a county that suffered critical blows. What crops have suffered critical damage? First of all, in cotton, secondly, in cereals, thirdly, in the sunflower, fourth, in horticultural products. In fact, three thousand acres, as you said, in the mountainous volume have been taken into account and through the de minimis procedure. But you haven't answered what you're going to do with the plaque. Why didn't you remove it in time? Why did you not ask for the European Union's approval earlier, so that people know that what they are making this will be declared? You know what happened. It is shameful for the Greek state to put these people in this terrible transaction. Also, on the issue of livestock farming I have already tabled a topical question and we will discuss it. I know what happened to farmers. However, at the moment we are respecting them, and I myself, as Minister of State, are also respecting these people who have suffered critical blows. Do you know another area in the country dealing with cotton that has suffered so much damage? Three hundred and fourteen thousand acres were cultivated. The two hundred and sixty thousand acres have suffered almost total damage. Do you have another request from another area to compensate? You don't come to see the problem. I live because I move to the county, and when I say I move, I mean to the last village. The Board of Directors of the World Parliamentary Association of Hellenism, Senators and MPs in action came. Behind them are three hundred and thirty more all over the world and is the head of the spear of the Greek community. You know what they heard the first of all these people? 'What about compensation?'. Because the county's a farm feeder. The whole county is based on the primary sector. We don't have factories. And a factory we had in Orestia, you shut it down, you killed it. What more can we do? It's really not for laughing, it's for crying. These people, I told you before, are stationmates and national guards. They won't hold the border unless you support them. Don't see them as you see a farmer from another region in central Greece or in western Greece. There the other does not sit at a distance of a thousand meters, such as my village, from the river Evros, if you do not solve his obvious problems. The situation is tragic and you must take it that way. I'm an officer, I was the leader of a body. Is it possible to lie to you? And I come from a farmhouse, and I have never been distracted from the agricultural sector. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u22	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Look, Mr Treasury: exactly what we have said and exactly what we have agreed is done and kept in letter, absolutely, for the de minimis, for the exceptional financial aid, and in the time that we have said, and for the documentation that should be 'closed' so that we do not have unduly old times and ask us back. We should be documented because as long as this government exists, we must make it clear to everyone, I think we can't do it and we won't. It's our choice. About what you said about cotton. What did we agree then? That there's going to be a delivery. That's exactly what we're moving in, and that's how we're going to get the coupled reinforcements, so long as there's a tradition. We talked about it then and we're talking about it now. We've clarified it. However, we cannot accept phenomena where we will be cultivated in some areas or in other areas of non-deliveries or traditions in another way. Let's get this straight. I think we can come to an understanding. Therefore, with regard to the accusations about the escape of our Members, about the inconsistency of our own, and so on, I think that the whole world has understood how we are moving, what seriousness and what consequences this government is moving. Already in September 2018, long before we have had the debate, the country has sent a request for assistance to the European Union after Germany, substantiating that adverse climatic conditions prevailed in the country, with full documentation of time series of climatic data and climatic records and requesting assistance. The country has been doing so since September 2018 with the permanent Greek delegation and, in every Council of Ministers, we have excellent cooperation and we have strengthened the permanent Greek delegation so that the country has the maximum representation it has ever had. As regards the sugar factory you said, the sugar factory you know that, like the Greek sugar industry, it bears great sins. If you want to open this conversation, it would be nice to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u24	Six administrations have changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u25	This government since 2015 has been trying to keep the Greek Sugar Industry standing, because the timber producers who have huge specialization, both in equipment and in know-how, and the industry, which is a dynamic industry, national industry, must remain open and we do so in every way, and we are also supporting customs producers. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need two minutes to remind you of one more thing that we often forget, that the ELGA operates under a 1987 insurance regulation. Recently, after all the planned internal actions were taken, the ELGA Board of Directors for reforming the regulation radically so as to catch up to new crops, new techniques of cultivation and new climatic conditions and at the same time to have a social justice character so that what each farmer pays for feels and is ultimately rewarding on time. In other words, we will ensure in every way, by reforming the regulation as it should be, and it should have been, in such a way that it is public in nature, but always in the farmer when he is needed. This process has already begun. The analog study is to be commissioned after being given...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u26	The local conditions of each region must be seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u27	That's right, and that. What you said is the main core, Mr Colleague. The basic core is each area and each crop, because it is not always the same. As we said, cotton in Evros with cotton in Thessaly may be the same crop, but it's not in the same conditions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u28	Don't generalize the matter now. Please, Minister, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u29	We are closing it at the moment, Mr President, but I think it is the most important issue for farmers in terms of climate change. It is the'umbrella' of protection, which must be public and solidarity. We are moving in this direction, and that is what will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u30	I would remind you that the ministers, regardless of government, have the opportunity at their initiative to go to the relevant Standing Committee, without having a bill, and to inform them of their responsibilities and outstanding cases and discussions with all colleagues. This is much more good practice than trying to fit everything in three minutes' response to a timely question. We shall conclude with the last time-consuming question. It is the fourth question under number 248/7-1-2019 of the First Cycle of the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for the Athens I of Potamio Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “The Oldest House of Athens is in a marginal state.” The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Theanos Fotou. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u31	Ms. Minister, the Elderly of Athens has been operating uninterruptedly since 1864, one and a half centuries. It has been driven in common assumption and common place - I do not open doors that you do not know - in total decline. It is undoubtedly because of the economic crisis. But it is also a mismanagement that has been in existence for so many years and has led the old management of the nursing home to justice. This administration was declared a discount, a new administration was appointed at the initiative of the Municipality of Athens and attempted to have some solutions, some interventions, some data, but in June 2018, a few months ago, a new temporary administration was appointed, problems appeared again, remain etc. On the basis of an investigation and I would not say a complaint, but an attempt to point us out, a highly sensitive association of the region - I am impressed by other actions - I am a MP from Athens and I know how much he cares about the issues of his region - he warns us and informs us - and I have searched for them - that only two wings are currently in operation at the House of Athens, while nine were formerly hosted by about a hundred elderly people as against four hundred 50 hosts in the past. Also, there are very great shortages of staff. In 2005, about thirty-five employees were employed, and now they are about eighty of those employed, with what that means. Also, the club in its resolution, which has particularly interesting elements, says that there is also an open problem, of the large debts that the nursing home has in taxes, from there and from there, on the funds, etc., despite having a very large real estate that could particularly exploit or exploit. I personally prefer the word 'use' to 'exploitation'. There is one question here, and I address the Minister: first of all, it is not a compliment. I know personal sensations about too many things. You often have a rigour in your political views, but your personal sensations are not questioned. So I'm telling you this: something you have to do. I ask: Does the Ministry in mind look into what is happening in the case of the nursing home and what intervention does it think it can do to correct a few things? Some things of interest I will tell you, Minister, because I am always too strict, Mr President, in my time - in my denture - to be in time or to use less than the time available to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u32	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, you will give us some time because it is a burning matter. It is time, indeed, for your question, Mr Colleague, because it is time for us to move on to legislative initiatives and therefore, we will need a great deal of consensus in this House. The nursing home is the flagship of a privileged founding state that we received, a state which entrusted the institutional welfare to private charity clubs, which were multiplied at high speeds. They are registered today - for the first time - a thousand six hundred, with an electronic platform, which you voted on in the House - thankfully everyone, unanimously - and we now have all the information for the first time: beneficiaries, assets, boards and everything. So we have mapping and we know. However, there are institutional opportunities for intervention and they are ready, as I have often promised in this House, and we must proceed with consensus. I would just like to point out a few elements - and you will also say them more thoroughly - which are the following: until 2000, it is not the crisis that occurred at the nursing home, Mr Papoutsis. It is that until 2000 this institution was operating as you described it. By 2015 - in fifteen years - it has collapsed. Indeed, the picture is that with these figures you say, for unitary buildings, property of an objective value of tens of millions, it pays half a million ENPIA. Not for Psychic's properties that, as you know, are excluded. Where the nursing home is - with an invaluable value of 55 acres - there are 11 buildings with a capacity of six hundred and fifty beds high-level - I would very much like to be there - with large lots of beetles unexploited. What happened? Administration under the archimandrite Prokopios Boobas arrived at the nursing home in 2015. Then this administration of the archimandrite was referred to justice for a series of felonies, including some: infidelity, misappropriation, money laundering and dirty money. The municipality, as a supervisory authority in 2016, appoints a temporary management committee for elections. It is not possible for the temporary board of directors to hold elections to the club, and then the appointment of temporary administrations from the Athens Court of First Instance begins. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful to the rapporteur for his excellent report. In other words, since April 2017, four temporary administrations have been appointed by judicial decision, which failed to organise legal elections, so that seven years have passed since the last elections in 2012. At the same time, one administration is judicially against the decisions of the other by insurance - this is not the end of the procedure - and, by means of actions, with the result that the constitutional provision for the autonomous and democratic functioning of the unions is deducted from the act which is being created. Therefore, it has become clearer than ever, as you have described, Mr Lykoudi, the need for intervention. The Ministry is now, all this time of exacerbation of administrative and not just problems, and although we are not a competent supervisory authority, it has been interested. Because from the first moment I have appealed to the Council of State to tell me whether I am a supervisory authority and I can intervene. I shall therefore present in the Minutes the decision of the Council of State, which tells us that we are not, we cannot intervene, we cannot do anything. I then personally visit the nursing home and find a terrible situation. Elderly people cry because they are undernourished. I see management, I see infinite facilities that are catering, cooking. Personal with cooks. The nursing home, however, feeds on catering. After that, I intervene, and at least I start to feed the tenants, because watching elderly people cry and tell you that we're hungry is scary! I will also table a second document thanking the Interim Administration for the intervention and for the supply. What's going on now? As you know, Mr Lykoudi, because of the protection offered by our Constitution itself and the Urban Code in unions and, by extension, in charitable associations, the possibilities of institutional intervention of the Ministry are minimal. It takes legislative change, so that the state, the ministry, can intervene, so that there can be a complete change in this landscape. As I have often promised, we have worked on this to remove the deadlock of the nursing home on the one hand and on the other hand to make two things. To enter order throughout the legal framework, which we have codified for the first time, since 1919 - we have been doing it ready, delivered to our Ministry - for private-law legal persons in institutions. We have seen there that we have potential for intervention as follows: all the institutions must be certified. Today, the nursing home is not certified by the National Centre for Social Solidarity, the EKKA, because all these institutions, when they did not require funding from the State, did not have to be certified, Mr President. That's a big mistake. They cannot provide promotional services to the State and are not certified by the State. I tell you some of the things that need to be changed in legislation and we will bring them in. Secondly, we need to see them per function. They are other institutions with children, others with elderly people and others with long-term sufferers or disabled persons. Today, with the mapping we have, we can define the specific specifications of each of these institutions, the functional ones. Third, depending on their property. Today, with the mapping we have, we know how many institutions have huge properties. It cannot be a board of directors composed of elderly or not, run huge properties, Mr Lykoudi. Special principles need to be used, as you say, not to be exploited. Therefore, a set of legislative interventions on the one hand. On the other hand, the nursing home must be given a rightful administration and it must be elected. How will this happen to break this vicious circle that I explained to you? Seven times his administrations are changing. We cannot finish it easily because the procedure is constitutionally established. There is a legislative initiative that we are taking...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u34	But finish it up. Okay, because of the sensitivity of the subject, I left a lot of time, but close now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u35	I think that I have now described the two axes of intervention which I personally fully commit within this government, before the end of its term of office, we will bring it and call on representatives of all the parties to discuss before we can bring it together so that there can be the broadest possible consensus, otherwise we cannot proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u36	It is simply because the parliamentary authors are listening to us, to clarify that the old home of Athens is called, because it is spatially located on the border of the Municipality of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u37	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u38	The Municipality of Athens has no connection and no possibility of intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u39	No, I'll say why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u40	On the substance, none. Hence his intervention in court - the first thing you said, Minister - was that it was binding on the legal status.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u41	I'll see you in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Lykoudis has the floor. Tolerant, too. Don't worry. It is the last question, the subject is extremely interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, you did well and allowed the Minister to speak much longer than the time available to her. You also have personal sensitivity because you have run the Municipality of Athens for years and have lived through these issues, but this issue is also a social issue. I'm telling you, I'm impressed by the theology of the Minister. I was impressed to say, not as a opposition, because he mentioned elements which are not included in my question and which agree that something needs to be done. Fortunately, I asked this question, and at the very time I did it - I mean the time I took it - to give the opportunity, not only to me, to highlight, as a Member of the First of Athens, an issue that I had to do, but above all to you as Minister, to highlight the problem of relief from your side. I could mention a number of issues. I shall say, however, two or three issues. They are much more important than what you said, because they raise an issue, whether or not the state as an entity can intervene and correct badly. The President says here, Mr Kaklamanis, who was mayor, that the municipality cannot. It can't be the state, Mr. Kaklamani, much more. I mean, we need to get out of this vicious circle of confiscated bureaucratic restrictions. It cannot be said by the government, namely you, that 'I am not a supervisory authority'. Who is a supervisory authority? Who can supervise the irregularities or the well-built things of such an organization, social activity, such as the nursing home? I would like to say that with this observation I would finish my dentistry, but you said so before I said it, since I told you that there are a number of issues that you need to see. There is one extremely interesting point - I do not want to mention it now, Minister - a resolution from the club which mentions ten or fifteen interventions that can be made to make the situation at the nursing home. Saying it now doesn't matter. I have it here, and I can come by and leave it to you, to see it. They have too much interest in what they say, to see if you can do it. But, beyond all of this, it is up to us to decide whether you have the opportunity and how to get it, so that you can do it. So I'm coming to this for now. We must take some initiative, which you will take, the House, we here as the sovereign state institution, shape the conditions, so that we can intervene, in order to create the conditions for something to be done at the nursing home or elsewhere. I would like to quote, Mr President, if you will allow me, which you too can only care about because of the past of your municipality. I also addressed a question to the outgoing Minister of Culture when I raised the issue of this great wound in the center of Athens, this open wound, which is the "ATTICN", the Chiller building, which burned in the corner. You're going through the center of Athens, and if you love this city, your soul gets caught when you see that deaf woman in the middle of ten years now. I had asked, what can we do? And the answer was: “What should we do? There are legal commitments with the legacy, the inherited buildings, the institutions that supervise, which are tied to our hands." I wonder, then, whether it is possible for a state that is favoured, serious, modern, to be unable to face this shame, to exist in the center of Athens, the capital, with millions of tourists, a deaf deaf, as it is, in the center of Athens? It's like that with the nursing home. Is it possible, in 2019, to tolerate this decline, this shame regarding our elderly compatriots, who need not only care but also fundamentally tenderness on the part of the state, and to say that we cannot do anything, because nobody recognizes our role? [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I would like to finish by saying this, Madam President, which is the request from the inhabitants and the club dealing with these issues. Take initiatives as a government. Bring this to the House. I am absolutely sure that the whole House, all the parties, can only agree that you need to intervene in some way in order to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u44	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Lykoudes, I said that. You were very timely, precisely because I promised that by the end of 2018 I would have brought a legislative change for private legal entities. I'm ready right now to do it after two acts, I repeat, that our government has done. The first is the codification of all the existing legislation since 1919 for institutions until now and not only, but all the welfare and the second is the mapping you have voted for, all the parties of this House, to become electronically, with the explicit command that if not all institutions, private-law legal entities, on the platform, lose their license. That worked. It was a very difficult thing, and today we have a mapping of these six hundred institutions, how they work and on what terms. So we can go to legislation more confident, that we know the field and what is happening exactly. But what about the Athens Elderly? The President said so from his experience with the Municipality of Athens, which has a great deal of experience, and I personally have consulted him many times and he knows it. Mr President, as I told you, when I went to intervention, I was told that you are not competent. I didn't think I was in charge! I have therefore asked the Legal Council of the State for an opinion, and I have tabled it. You see, he met in full-time and decided that I'm not responsible, that the Ministry can't intervene. What was the status and what was it so far? It has a constitutional clause, and here is the horrifying thing, which says: If I am a legal person of private law, a charity of charity, I can be founded and operated and if I do not ask for money from the state, it has no possibility of intervention by the state. If I have a huge fortune, how am I taking advantage of it or taking advantage of it? Dark case. I am not asking for money from the state, therefore, even though I am in a terrifying situation, and I am therefore independent. The municipality had the power, once the administration of Archimandrite Bouba has been retired, to appoint a temporary board of directors to hold elections within six months. He can't have elections within six months. The board appointed by the mayor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u46	Because the administration in question, Minister, has won the insurance measures, that it was wrongly appointed as temporary administration. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u47	That's right. Now here's what's going on, the crazer of history. They therefore begin to deduct one administration, which is designated by the Court of First Instance. I'm going to the prosecutor's office at the Ice Bay, Mrs. Xeni Demetrius, with all the file at the nursing home, which is big and come and read it anytime you want, I've got all the data. I know the club's efforts, I've seen the workers. The president of the club is persecuted by Archimandrite Booba and is constantly in trials. What can I first tell you? It's the world's scandal at the nursing home! The nursing home is the proprietor state scandal. But it has a constitutional clause that doesn't allow you to intervene. When I asked Mrs Demetriou what to do, she said to me: while you are in the chain of constant resignations from the courts of one administration after another, you cannot intervene. That's why I'm saying it's the cracks inside the Constitution and the Civil Code. These two are currently creating this 'protection' regime of a state of incoherent nature. So there is a legal proposal within these limits. We'll see all the parties. We will also call on the President here, who has a great deal of experience in these matters, to see whether we can and will proceed. That's the one. The other is, at the same time, the law - framework law for all private institutions that now obliges them to be certified, whether they take or not take money. He'll obligate them, set criteria, according to which they'll get money. Because today - to say this too, the President knows - private institutions, private legal entities, which you hear are doing terrible things in welfare, take from three pockets of the state. Excuse me. They're getting an EOPY hospital for every one of them who's inside the institution. Do you know how much money they get? They take between 30 and 70 euros a day for the person from the EEAS. They take from our ministry, if they are certified, money through the regions. We are giving it to the regions, and they are being given it to them. They're taking from the districts. Three pockets of the state. And from the National lottery. You know that very well. There is therefore no such notorious autonomy of the institutions when the state helps in this way. And we need to see what criteria it will help. So I have these two legislative bodies. And I commit in the next two weeks to invite you all, all parties, to discuss, to consult as far as I have arrived, to the point where I have ended up - you may be all wiser - to move forward. Because this regime is scary. That's it, Your Honour. And thank you very much indeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u48	Finally, Minister, let me say that the initiative you are taking is a good one. I don't know, Mr. Lykoudi, if you're taking part in the Constitutional Committee, now that we're discussing the review, because that's what the Minister said. And there, and justice, and the Council of State, I, as Minister of Health, had a similar problem, for example, with the Drokaitio.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u49	Oh, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u50	We did what we did, but in the Council of State, in plenary, it was lost for formal reasons. The judges recognized the problem that existed, but for formal reasons it was lost. So let us disagree with the other articles of the Constitution. Perhaps now, at this point, a correction can be made. I am not of the opinion that private legal persons are useless. But maybe he can get a class in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u51	That's very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u52	Before I close, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory of thirty-nine students and students and three teachers attending the 1st PAAL Kamaterou. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-10-S1-commons.u53	With the consent of the House at 10.36 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 11 January, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate on Question No 9/14-12-2018 in accordance with the agenda distributed.
