ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 26-2-2019 authorisation, the minutes of its IGC meeting of Tuesday 26 February 2019 concerning the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Company transformations and harmonisation of the legislative framework with the provisions of Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoices in the framework of public procurement and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House, firstly, that the Standing Committee on Forum on Education and Sport is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 'Creating a child station in the Ministry of Culture and Sport, regulating the issues of the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, abolishing the New Acropolis Museum and other provisions'. Secondly, the Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Modernisation and Reform of the Institutional Framework for Private Clinics, Establishment of a National Public Health Agency, Establishment of a National Institute of Neoplasms and other provisions". Mr Fortsakis also asks for a leave abroad for family reasons from 1-32019 to 5-32019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Similarly, Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis seeks permission from abroad to go to Russia from 27-2-2019 to 28-2/-019 in the context of the visit by the President of the New Democracy Mr.Mitsotakis to Moscow. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Before entering the agenda of the legislative work, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question issue to the House on Thursday, 28 February 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 377/25-2-2019 topical question by the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Maniou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Appendix of honey to the foods of the households'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Panagiotis (Northern) Mr Mitaraki Mitaraki, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: 'Lacks in retrospectives of pensioners on special wages'. 3. The 386/26-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Dangerous “hot” in Apostlemi, in the Gouves - Hersonissos department.” B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, Member of Parliament, with number 378/25-22019, was raised by MP, Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Recompensatory benefits for the regions in the administrative boundaries of which the reservoirs/frames of Mornos and Evnos are located. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 392/26-2-2019 by MP Art of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Styriou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Critical change is here. The necessary infrastructure is missing...’. 3. The 330/4-2-2019 topical question by Independent MEP, Evia Nikolaos Michou, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on "Continuance of persecution of members of the Greek minority in Albania". 4. The 284/21-1-2019 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “Albanian street developments in the creation of “Greek Albania”. 5. The 280/17-1-2019 topical question by MEP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "The administration of the Aegean is being promoted by the government." 6. The 260/9-1-2019 topical question by Piraeus I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No. 261/9-1-2019 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". 8. The Question No 263/9-1-2019 by Congressman Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the Skopje state".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Creating a child station at the Ministry of Culture and Sport, regulating the topics of the Solidarity Fund officials of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, repealing the New Museum of Acropolis and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 25 February 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u5	The House agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Aristides Baltas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by referring to a point made by Mrs Kefalidou, which was, I think, very helpful in the methodology of the debate. Mrs Kefalidou noted during the discussions we had in the committees that this bill is in some way two: One dimension is what she says, what she is doing, what she is trying to regulate matters pending at the Ministry of Culture, and the second dimension is a slap, as I remember she said, which accompanies the bill on scandals, etc. on the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture. It helps this remark because it allows me to split my speech into the shortest time that I have in two dimensions. And I start with the essential, the first. This bill is one - I would dare to describe it - a humble bill, it does not make radical innovations from those who evade imagination and give the feeling that something important is happening to culture in the country - we know it, we recognize it - but it solves some years of problems of the Ministry of Culture, in particular: One is the famous children's station of the Ministry of Culture, which - and I will say this more thoroughly in the second part of the speech - managed by the Ministry of Culture's Solidarity Fund. As we will see, this has been a multitude of problems. Therefore, this kind of day-care station had to start operating properly, given that there was a legislative provision from the Ministry, a special agency from the Ministry. So the one big thing that makes this bill in its humility is that it settles the problems of the child station, integrates the childcare station into the structures of the Ministry, transferring the workers, paid by the Solidarity Fund to the Ministry of Culture, without anyone being lost, and therefore rationalises its operation, setting out from here on top of all kinds, the correct criteria for which children are entering, etc., and indirectly opening up the prospect of children from other places, and not just from Athens, to be able through the assistance of the Ministry to join children's stations, since they have not joined those who have the municipalities, etc. The second thing, relatively important, which the Ministry is doing, is a settlement again. It is the famous New Museum of the Acropolis that still exists, despite the fact that it is now ten years that the Museum operates normally. A similar form of regulation is also being made here. Removal of the organisation of the New Acropolis Museum, the employees are part of compositions similar to the Acropolis Museum, without affecting anything there, because they are placed in positions of the organogram of the Acropolis Museum and when the workers, with the good, retire or leave, remain vacant within the organogram, without adding new posts. Both of these pieces of the bill were discussed in detail in the Committees. Great objections have been raised. The debate, in my opinion, was very constructive and global. And so, I think these two problems can go ahead properly. He also does other things, again helpful, this bill. For example, it provides incentives for there to be guards in Delos, who are obviously a jewel of our heritage, but some exile in the winter months for the employees there, because they cannot go to Mykonos easily. He needs a special motive so they can go there. It regulates some issues in relation to the movement benefits of officials of the Ministry, taxes of antiquities - islands, in a way - because, as you know, the Aegean islands do not communicate directly with each other, so that the curator can go to the other island as a rule must pass from Athens. The cost of these journeys is not enough, as the Ministry of Culture currently has to do with this, so a regulation is also being made here. Another interesting arrangement is for the School of Fine Arts of Tinos. Teachers in this are given additional qualifications in order to upgrade the school. So, in this way, this type of humble problems are somehow solved by this bill, without - I repeat - having raised great objections to them. The second thing, however, which is equally important, if not the most important, is that we have seen - already from the beginning that we have undertaken as government and the Ministry of Culture - that there is what we would call the outbreaks of interlocutory, which, as is slowly proved in writing and validly, public money, without being visible from the outset how and why. The Solidarity Fund was established in 2005, with a title initially misleading. It's called the Solidarity Fund, but the fund's dowry is no help of any kind among the officials, it's just money disbursing the Solidarity Fund from the Ministry. In other words, aid and not mutual assistance. I say this by starting, because I want to say that - because I am going to talk about scandal - we have implemented, implemented the entire Ministry in cooperation with Parliament as we will see, a method of dealing with these problems. The method is very simple: if you find that there is – according to rumours or information - a fountain of interacting, you do not go directly to the tiles to say: 'A, scandal, scandal!'. First, you locate where there is, you locate the alibi and you start looking for if these rumors and information circulated, they have status. Only after all these three things are finished can you proceed to a proper record of why this is an outbreak of interlocutory and, possibly, if the corresponding evidence is gathered, to go to the prosecutor. I say this because it is not just about the Ministry of Culture. In our experience over the years, we have seen that such outbreaks exist everywhere, and all these outbreaks must be dealt with with with such a type of methodology, so that neither public life can be poisoned, but also the outbreaks must be revealed and, where necessary, that they must go to justice for the further things to do regardless of their work. With this methodology, then, we went ahead and started seeing the Solidarity Fund. I referred to the misleading title. If you want intelligence that will justify the above, it's not a mutual assistance fund, it's a "days" mutual fund. We'll find out. How is this mystery fund financed, which had no legal personality? In other words, he didn't have members who make boards, elect and control. It was merely as an administrative board appointed to the Minister, but with the following curious procedure. In order to change, if necessary, the composition of the board of directors or to harm anything in the fund, the Minister was legally required to have the agreement of the already appointed board of directors. Unprecedented! And it was unprecedented that resources from the Solidarity Fund were not one-off aid in one way or another, but it was a percentage of the revenue from the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Expropriations. So, the more the state's resources increased from archaeological sites, sales etc., the more it increased the amount that went to the Solidarity Fund, which was the only alibi of its operation was the famous kindergarten. Plus additional grants, proven. Plus, I'm supposed to help the employees on whom I'm going to come back. Well, we started this process from the beginning. Mr Xydakis has tried to control this fund from the beginning, along with an audit that never took place. Fortunately, she appointed Mrs Aspasia Luvi, then President of the Archaeological Resources Fund, which has tried as much as she could - ideally in my opinion - to proceed with these procedures as well. Then I took over and proceeded, the next Minister and I proceeded with it. And this whole course ends where we are today. To show that there was good cooperation between the Ministry and Parliament, twenty-nine Members of SYRIZA on 27 April 2017, they tabled a question to the then Minister in detail in relation to the fund. I'll testify to her for the Minutes, too. Then, shortly thereafter, on the occasion of and the debate on this question, I personally filed with the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, on the basis of the information obtained until then, without the management audit being completed, on which I will come back. I shall also present the report to Mrs. Ice Bay Attorney, who, as far as I know, assigned the case to a proper prosecutor who is going through the investigation. Recently, the findings of the relevant management of the Ministry of Finance, the Directorate-General for Financial Control of the Ministry of Finance, which records findings in relation to the operation of the Fund, have been completed. It was said to the committees that the budget was balanced, the 'balanced' does not mean that there are no allocations. And here I have a list of the sums charged by the report which go to the prosecutor for the further cases, i.e. for legal charges to be charged to the administrations of the fund. It's typical here some numbers. It requests back the accounting office from the fund board, for example EUR 97,000 as unduly paid for graphics, 2,859,000 for third party expenses, etc. Uncooked small cost 91,000 euros and so on. I think the numbers are indicative. Regular and exceptional grants to the Solidarity Fund, a detailed list per year. Over the period 1995-2017, more than EUR 40 million of public money received from the Fund, over 70 million in the form of cultural training for officials. That's not what we're dealing with right now. Well, he probably did. It's another conversation bigger. Other 40 million more than 70 million for such operations. And the operation of the children's station, according to what we found, was multiples per child from the functions of expensive private nurseries. With regard to the remaining costs of the Ministry, in addition to the costs of the day-to-day school, it is indicative that a change in the administration of the fund had taken place since then for a year. The average costs that do not relate to the kindergarten or to the wages of workers there from 2008 to 2017 are EUR 137,000 per year, while the time worked after the new administration was EUR 35,000 the cost of all these costs. “137” with “35” means something. I'm going to testify this for the Minutes too. We're beginning to wonder where all that money is going. Here's very interesting revelations. For example, the fund was invited by employees who had either the Minister's office or the trade unions. We have a list here with the names eradicated, obviously, five for a minister's office, six for the trade unions. Normal wages were paid by the Solidarity Fund to get people to the offices of ministers or federations. It is what I said 'the mutual service fund'. I'll testify this paper for the Minutes as well. There is a document in the same logic: a letter from the then Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Sport to the Solidarity Fund calling for the transfer of EUR 1 million to the fund of the relevant federation in order to compensate for overtime. It is a document signed on the one hand by the Secretary-General of the Ministry at the time and, on the other hand, by the reply of the Fund that he agreed to comply. Also, there is evidence of such transactions that also concern transfers from and from the fund in order to pay overtime and other related things that the Ministry has no reason to do in this direction. I shall submit this paper for the minutes. I'm finishing with a nice lesson. It has been found - the court procedure has not yet been completed - this fine mechanism: it is supposed to be an employee in the fund and asks for a loan. The fund makes a meeting of the board of directors and approves this loan. After a little further meeting of the board of directors, the official states that he has no payment for this loan. In a new meeting of the Management Board, it is stated that we are 'given it'. Except that there has never been an application made by the official - they are forged -, they have never been transmitted to the Ministry's services so that the pieces of the loan that he should have received can be paid by his salary by instalments - none of them - and by statements from the employees that there is forgery and the request for a loan and his request not to return the loan. This whole package is, at least, a hundred and thirty employees. The evidence is there. They're currently looking for the public prosecutors and it shows what I'm saying, what it means to inter-service, inter-relationship, etc. to a humble organization, without many names, called the Solidarity Fund - innocent thing - Ministry of Culture. The prospect from there on is that the fund - let us say - remains, in order to restructure it, provided that the officials obviously want to participate, to set up a general meeting, to provide assistance in order to operate this Solidarity Fund. Perhaps there, if this works, and there are specific needs, costly and transparent, it may help the Ministry, otherwise that will have no reason to exist. It is being kept for the entire transitional period, in order to solve this problem as well. I conclude by saying that this is not only indicative of how a fund operates in a ministry. In our opinion it is general throughout the general government - if you like - all over the public sector. Such procedures must be carried out by such a method, so that the state can operate transparently and do not all these black holes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. We move on with Mrs Kefaliannis, rapporteur of the New Democracy. Here, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a step forward before the end of the government's term of office, the leadership of the Ministry of Culture and Sport introduces to the vote this bill, which is a roughly stirring of legislation, many of which have been withdrawn from the past, but at the same time have been altered for their purpose. Throughout the legislative process before, the Deputy Minister, Mr. Army, tried - without success - to convince us that this is a solid draft law which solves chronic diseases of the Ministry of Culture. Those are his words. We, of course, have a different concept, both in terms of the priorities of the Ministry's problems and in terms of the purposes of this bill. This is another piece of legislation below the circumstances which deliberately opens up all the crucial issues of culture. Ladies and gentlemen, it took four whole years the government to activate a provision of the Ministry of Culture and Sport's organisational chart since 2014, which provided for the setting up of a child station at the Ministry's address. You've been ready for the arrangement, ready for the solution. You obviously did not have the political will. Because, quite simply, you were not attracted by the planned administrative subordination of the school station at the Ministry's address at that time. So, to be more precise, it took you four years to find the appropriate administrative framework in order to convert the child station into the instrument of the Minister. After all, this is the real reason why you chose to set up him administratively as an autonomous department of the Ministry. It is an absolute resurgence, as in 2017 top government officials were talking about abolishing the Solidarity Fund after the management audit carried out. And you come today to formulate the reorganisations of the fund. The reality is that not only do you not abolish it, but you do not even cut it off from state funding, since it is envisaged to be able to grant it from the Ministry of Culture and Sport credits coming from the EDF. You have brought the specific provisions invoked a conclusion and all of us, the elected representatives of the people, have been called upon to decide on the principle and on the articles in the committee on the basis of leakages in the press, because you have not taken care to remove their confidentiality as you were due. These methods - if anything - constitute an insult to the parliamentary institutions. With regard to the abolition of the New Acropolis Museum, there was provision for the abolition of the OANMA in a 2014 bill - it was then prepared for the Minister of Constantine Tasoula, who was unable to proceed, because you blamed the then government - with the exception that that provision was transitional. Four years, what did you do? As with the other issues in the autopilot policy. With regard to the remaining arrangements of the bill, this is an attempt to settle heterogeneous issues. The arrangements for payment of allowances to the archbishops on the island of Delos are in the right direction, but fragmented, because you had all the time as a government to proceed to an organized mapping of needs in all areas of the territory with similar difficulties. The same fragment is the arrangement on rules of operation at the Hellenic Film Centre, the National Lyceum and the Concert Hall of Music. First of all, the need for regulation with specific specifications and objectives exists for all operators. On the other hand, because you are putting an exclusive deadline, we have asked you: are there internal regulations? Have they been signed in a responsible manner? If so, you will be able to present them, so that we can vote for the exclusive deadline you set. As far as the other articles in the bill are concerned, they deal with individual issues, which we consider unacceptable to be part of an election bill, in essence, because they are issues which are also unjustified for the four years that you have been running. Finally, with regard to the "ELLENIKI FESTIVAL", we consider that you are undermining the general need to strengthen the work and its mission, because you had to approach this leading cultural institution in general. The Agency needs to be more general in its organisation and function and, in particular, in its staff. Obviously, you do not want to give a definitive solution, which will upgrade the organisation and strengthen its competitiveness vis-à-vis corresponding cultural actors abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the major problems of the management of the Greek cultural heritage, not only are not solved by this bill, but are not even affected. For our part, we shall be voting in favour of the provisions of the bill on working arrangements, staff transport and, in general, on incentives for the officials of the Ministry. We must, however, stress that this legislative project is another expression of your deepest conservatism. Not only do you break with the ailments of the state, but you perpetuate them. You are playing the workers' protectors, representing, in essence, the failed model of state centralism and state growth. That is why you hand over zero governmental work on mobilising resources that the public can achieve from the management of cultural heritage. As a government you have put your political stamp in closed refreshments and licensed sales all over the territory. In fact, the period 2015-2017, when Mrs.Aspasia Luvi was President and you, Mr. Army, were a member of the board of directors of the EDF, is a period for which you are controlled as government, as well as the four auctions that you have conducted for the refreshment centre, came out unfertile, in the absence of a single strategy and equivalent plan for the recovery and rental of refreshments, according to the conclusion of the College of Public Administration Auditors, but also due to the continuous modification of the terms of the notices, the non-decision-making and the non-action to rent large number of refreshments. I'm filing the relevant conclusion for the Minutes. [[At this point, the New Democracy Member, Mr Olga Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above conclusion, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It seems, however, that this finding does not fall within the scope of what you consider to be important, so that you can avoid it. It leaves you indifferent the huge "haemorrhage" of income you will cause to the state, which was recorded as a result of mismanagement during this period. And after this catastrophic failure you resorted to your well-known legislative approach in the summer of 2018, to allow a one-off conclusion of lease contracts without a competition, with a total duration of not more than eighteen months. Your purpose? The concession of refreshments with concise procedures and convenient costs where you wanted. Direct assignments, Mr. Undersecretary? Minister, we had to discuss the modernisation of the EFF today and how to maximise the performance of the Greek cultural heritage. However, the establishment plan of the EDF, which will upgrade the fund's structures and functions in this direction, still remains an inappropriate proclamation of yours. Otherwise, you are dependent on the demonization of the development dimension of the Greek cultural heritage, which you are also averted as genuine stateers. I am referring to your appeal to statements by the Chief of Officerial Representation, who has developed the prospect of private and public partnerships in the light of the emergence and exploitation of cultural resources, in their broadest sense, because we consider that cultural resources themselves create around them economic activities, such as small and medium-sized enterprises, related to the local tourism product. It could therefore be promoted - through appropriate policies - their cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and Sport in the interests of the development of local societies and economies. In addition, recent public debates organized by the Ministry of Culture have reached their conclusions. Because, as we can see, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Culture has brought the Ministry into the field of discussion. In this House, however, it does not come, at the moment, when it is doing its legislative work. It may also be embarrassed, since ultimately this bill does not include the regulation on the protection of the ownership and management of the property of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which was committed a month ago that it will be incorporated into this bill. So instead, Mr Secretary, to oppose the opposition to private and public partnerships, it would be appropriate to exercise your constitutional obligation: To protect the Greek cultural heritage from the sales that your Government has drunken in 2015 with the third memorandum! We inform you that your tactics will not bending our requirement to apply the constitutional requirement to protect the cultural heritage of the Greek state. Ladies and gentlemen, culture is the key to the release of important driving forces that can lead to economic and social prosperity. The responsibility of managing such a critical sector requires - above all - work with vision, design and targeting. The place also needs to go to the area of culture on the basis of a realistic plan of strong development policies that will highlight the unique multiplier value of the Greek cultural heritage. It will soon come to an end to this government policy that is constantly seeking refuge in the past, without realising that a whole four years is already its own past. And in culture, the account of your government's term of office is completely negative. You leave behind dozens of loose ends, huge frustration and many questions not only about the results of your policy, but mainly about how cynical and derogatory you have been operating all these years. The last fiasco for selecting director at the National Museum of Contemporary Art is another addition to your political legacy and contemporary culture. Four years you systematically choose the fragmented policy of deregulation that brings you before your own dead ends. Today's bill seals this very policy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr. Kefalidou. I would also ask that the list of speakers be closed. Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Mr Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today seeks, with a delay and in the nearest five of the elections, to deal with what is called happy and elegant 'families of the Ministry of Culture and Sport'. Most of the provisions either concern the abolition of the New Acropolis Museum's Creation Organization, whether it relates to the allowance of officials or the movement of officials, or the Panormos School and all of them, were included in a bill submitted by the Ministry of Culture in November 2014. But then you had taken a long time - if you remember - and you dropped the government using the election of the President of the Republic. So where can a humble bill of the Ministry of Culture be discussed in the middle of budgets and votes for the election of the President of the Republic? Since 2015, when you became government, many ministers and Deputy Ministers have changed. And all of a sudden, the Ministry's leadership was perceived - the new one - that there are unresolved issues concerning staff and they must be resolved. Therefore, in the House today, provisions are being introduced with a delay of four years. And responsibility is all yours! The bill was waiting for you ready, locked, patiently in your ministry drawers. However, it is not a good question, because now, why did you suddenly get caught by this need to settle staff? The draft law is small and supposed to be helpful. What we have to do for the last days of a hell of a government. A number of issues are settled. There are issues relating to the setting-up of a child station, the Staff Solidarity Fund, the New Acropolis Museum, the increase of the right to move out of the seat, the allowances of the officials of Delos. Whether he now achieves all of this for which the bill was created, that remains to be seen. For us, however, as a Change Movement, there is a fundamental question and a dilemma that we are called upon to answer every time before we are placed in the bills brought by your Government. And that is no other than whether a government with a disgraceful performance can manage a specific topic completely: How feasible is it in these wild times of polarization and division - which you do not forget that your government first introduced into the political system - while you are resisting a government that you think is destroying the country, at the same time keeping your eyes open to a legislative initiative? How far is it, in order to ensure the right to permanent and stable work, to the safety and dignity of workers who have for years covered the needs of the Ministry of Culture who have been hostage, to judge that you will vote for a measure, will you see it positively, even if you disagree with this disgusting government? As a movement of change, unlike other places and certainly in complete contrast with the government, we have shown that we have political responsibility and have given answers so far with our attitude. Let us start the debate on the articles a little, because I understand that the debate will go to the whole. Establishment and operation of a child station: The theme of the child station had been arranged by the agency of 2014 with the a.d. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It provided for the creation of a department with responsibility for the nursery, but did not have time to apply until January 2015, when you took over. Therefore, your Government did not trigger this department for four years, although it included it in the 2018 organisation, which actually copied the 2014 organisation. But even there you can't make a copy right. There's a lot of mistakes. Under the relevant provision, therefore, the Ministry is setting up and running a childcare facility for the children of the Ministry's staff and its supervised bodies in the premises of its full ownership. To date, the kindergarten was operating with funding from the FP, the Archaeological Resources Fund, under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture Solidarity Fund. Details of the age limits of children hosted, of the books to be kept, shall be provided with the necessary legislative authority for the internal procurement rules of the child station. However, we have also told you in the committees - we have seen nowhere that there is concern for the rest of the staff of the Ministry working in the region. It is best to bend a bit on issues outside Athens as well. It is the famous phrase, "Greece is not just Athens". Let us look a little at what is happening in the other services, which have so much staff, throughout Greece. Articles 2 and 3: Replace articles relating to the Agency, essentially, 2018. Isn't this proof of the sloppiness and the sloppiness of this government? On the foot, I am voting - I am voting - and every time you come to correct mistakes. And the Lord will see if you can correct or create new ones. And this tactic runs all your legislative work. Article 3: The objectives of the Fund include the operation of the Children's Station abolishing the new bill, and this creates the need to move an existing staff into new positions. We understand the need to provide for the possibility of including staff, which is private law of indefinite duration and has so far worked in the fund, in the structure of the Ministry of Culture to continue the proper operation of the Children's Station. We believe, however, that the way you deal with it is fragmentary. Article 4: Household costs cover in children's camps. We will agree, telling you that the Ministry is required to make available sufficient funds for the full camping season, in line with the relevant state tariffs for the whole day of the camping season. Let's go to article 5. Mr Baltas felt the obligation and the need to apologise for his work and his days at the Ministry - and you did the same - because the proposed arrangements for the Solidarity Fund actually make it a policy instrument in the hands of the Minister concerned. All that the government has at times denounced about the'sinerary fund', as you said, and maintains and legitimises them and creates a public money management tool through a body that does not belong to the general government. If this is not a regression to the worst form of clientelement, then tell us what it is. And I explain: SYRIZA and his government have denounced the fund as an association of people. This is coming today, and it legalises it. SYRIZA and his Government denounced the staff as the "rules of the old political system" and as the "transaction products of the respective political and trade union leaders". Today he legitimizes them. SYRIZA and his Government denounced the dismantling of public money through the fund, while there was a certain percentage of revenue received from the EDF, which was significantly reduced in 2014. And he was intervening - don't forget - and an administrative board of the EDF. Today the percentage is being abolished. So it's all going to do, and the whole thing's going to the Ministry. Finally, SYRIZA and his government denounced deficits in the Fund. That is why both Mr Xydakis and Mr Baltas were ordered to check the fifth in a row. Four had been preceded by previous governments and the management audit of the General Accounting Office of the State for the period 2005-2016. She's staying in justice for her findings. However, to us Members of Parliament, it is true that you have given us a special honour: on the leg, standing up to keep notes because it has been cast down - it says - confidential and for good administration reasons could not release a finding that was hosted on all pro-government sheets throughout the Internet and, in fact, fragmentedly depending on what we wanted to highlight, where we wanted to lay our burdens, who we wanted to target. And not just that. The Ministry seems to want to go beyond the control of legality, which is in an association of persons as sensible as possible, and it wants to carry out an audit of feasibility. I leave this to the crisis and to the House and to those who are watching us. But when justice has been taken over, I think it is important not to open up words, which are for impression and, in a way, in a piece of legislation which cannot even be elementary in relation to the fund to modernise. If this seems to you to be quite left, quite moral, and so you think that you will restore order and morality, go ahead. Article 6 continues with the Solidarity Fund. And what solution do you think the Ministry suggests? Regression in the worst form of a client state, resetting bases for insurance between the Ministry and the Treasury, or by extortion of the workers? I stayed wondering. Chapter C: Repeal of the New Acropolis Museum Creation Organization. Here I will tell you that we really need to close this loose end. It had begun since 1994. In 2008 the new public law person, the Acropolis Museum, was created. The transfer of the employees has been foreseen since 2014. The reason why you are stalling and why it is on the eve of elections, I leave it in the world's crisis. I should like to remind you of what we have said in the committees. You left out an entire editor of Antiquities, the Ionian Islands. The benefits of officials on the island of Delos: Here let me say a few words about this island, which is the largest archaeological site of the Cyclades, one of the largest excavated and visited archaeological sites in the country, a monument of global cultural heritage and, unfortunately, over time, the proof of our worthlessness as heirs of our cultural wealth. In itself, it could be an important source of wealth in our country and not for the ultimate invisible future, but from the next season. And I ask you: which country in the world would have such a treasure, a footprint of human majesty, beside such a predicted tourist destination and let him waste? The regulation is a grain of sand, one drop in the ocean in all that needs to be done. Starting with a 300 euro allowance. I would say to you this: make sure there is an incentive for the people who will work in Delos and, who alone you said - because you know the Ministry well - that they have been excluded for months. Article 11: Ελληνική Cinema Centre, Ηλικό Κελληνικό Κελληνικά, Μαγραφορίας. From an extension. Before you put the exclusive six-month deadline, why don't you answer us if you've prepared the new regulations? Why don't you even bring one to vote? Articles 12 and 13 go beyond them. I'm going to Article 14, Panormos Art School of Tinos. In fact, the Tinian marble arts is a milestone of the cultural history of this place. Fifty-two years of operation, three hundred sixty-two students, seventy-four of them continued as students of the High School of Fine Arts, renowned for their kind. Once again, however, you move on to patches, without real upgrading of the School to a marble training centre, which would highlight and enrich it. And I would again like to present my proposal, which concerns Dramas, whose honour I also have to be a Member: to think and to provide for the creation of a marble training centre, because Dramas is one of the last marble regions in Greece. It would be good for the Minister of Education, in addition to the irrational mergers of TEI and TEI which he is about to do in our area, to put his weight on the particularities he has in every place, so that we can finally link learning to the real needs and possibilities that exist. Articles 15 and 16: Amendments to amendments. Rule 17 has been withdrawn. We're going to the extensions of Article 18 for the Greek Festival. You are perpetuating a state of constant prolongation with fixed-term contracts. I do not know how much this duty of workers can continue, and at the same time you close the eye to all those who are expecting permanentisation or those who create the expectation of a future recruitment notice, to cover jobs. However, the Ministry must proceed with clean solutions and with clear proposals in the process of recruiting regular staff. I will not say about the parallel debate that is taking place, with all the enormous issues open and the unfinished things that exist in Culture. I will only say that it is a pity, because we have not seen this in any parliamentary control. We see only a deficit, because you never come to answer timely questions and why you do not even answer the written questions put. However, I would say to you: If you sincerely burn about the burning, great and sound issues of the Ministry, if you have an integrated plan for how the heritage of culture can become a vehicle for the economic development of the place, if you have thought about how you can use the EFF so that the Greek cultural heritage can be projected and exploited, and if you are sure about the work that has been done in the Ministry of Culture over the four years, let us make a pre-dated agenda for discussion. It would be a good idea to close your own term, leaving a good impression. We insist that many of the arrangements brought by the Ministry maintain and legitimise what it denounces itself. We insist that the 'grass', a blurred picture of the Ministry's Solidarity Fund, has not cleared up, no new beginning has been made, no clear framework of operation. We insist that we be positive about the provisions of the bill on dignity and the safe continuation of the work of the Ministry's officials, although inadequate, although delayed, although completely incomplete. Finally, we insist that you did not convince us. Some issues are gossiping, some sloppy, some minor. The basics, however, remain 'under the carpet'. And because we do not see the existence of a strategic plan for Culture, which enables you to tell us how you think about it, how it needs to be developed and how it should develop into the whole of the bills we have seen so far, we remain sceptical and vote'residents' in principle for the bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the 6th Petroupoli High School. Furthermore, our meeting from the top west theory is the 3rd Elementary School in Geraka. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're moving on with the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Grego. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. This bill looks like something simple. But it deals with the pathogens of the past and also of the present. So this draft law of the Ministry of Culture comes at a time when, due to all that has been done at national level, we could hardly recognise some positive elements. And it's not just the ancients that were assigned to the superstition because of various mistakes and wrong decisions. In consultation, too, it had become a bad start, since no one could comment on the bill. We have often criticised the government's system of things. We are also used to these democratic processes! The so-called consultation lasted for about seventeen days and only one comment was allowed, as I said. That's a very democratic process. You are talking about the setting-up of a school station for infants and pre-school children of officials of the Ministry of Culture and its institutions. However, there is nowhere to be mentioned how it works or on which criteria children will be selected. We cannot doubt that more workers or trade unionists will be served and that the children of some other employees will be left out of the structure. But this is also done in society, outside the Ministry. Tens of thousands of Greek children stay out of the structures of public kindergartens and kindergartens. And this situation is more uncomfortable and uncomfortable, if you like, than the officials of the Ministry of Culture. We have nothing, of course, against workers. However, there should be a corresponding provision for society as a whole and not just for one portion of people. The same opportunity should be given for children to join children's schools in all the working parents. We should not see this issue fragmented, as, with this political choice of yours, there is an intensification of division and tension between officials of different services and regions. In the second chapter you refer to the well-known Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture. A sinful story of this fund, since it has never served its purposes, but rather it has been through the fragmentation of public money. The trade unions had control over it and in his administration the "locals" of the respective Minister of Culture were at hand. Government officials even two years ago had described him as a sinner and in 2017 the political leadership had announced its cut-off from the Greek state. Finally, the proposed resolution does not provide for that. The fund was re-established in 2002 on a government of PASOK by the then Minister of Culture Evangelos Venizelos, who, although a constitutionalist, stated in his decision that the fund is an association of persons without legal personality, with its funding coming from the Greek State and mainly from the archaeological resources, while the state funding was not excluded, at one time the regularity and at other time the emergency, regardless of whether its established needs were limited or less limited. Within twelve years, the fund appears to have received state funding of EUR 46 million. If we want to see an example of these variable terms of operation, in 2009 Mr Samaras, as Minister of Culture, increased the rate of regular grant from 1% to 3.5% on the revenues of the Archaeological Resources Fund, with the result that within only one year the Fund will receive a funding of EUR 3.2 million. The gross state subsidies ensured both trade union inertia and the quietness of the Minister concerned to do his work. Of course, such funds as institutions are also used to exist in other ministries and in the public sector as a whole. The liseverisi, however, that took place in this fund between the ministry’s administration and political leadership was truly scandalous. The fund's title is false, as it was never a mutual fund. It was financed entirely by the Ministry of Culture, the ministers appointed administrations, the percentage of revenue attributed as resources was changing by ministerial decisions and a percentage of that was used to finance trade unions. As far as the question of ministerial decisions is concerned, it is clear that we disagree overall with all such provision in the bill you bring and we will continue to do so, because it is, after all, shown that, behind every ministerial decision, interests are being concealed, but they are against the interests of the Greek people and they are corrupting the Greek society. Some administrations, however, have remained unscathed for many years. For example, the period 2002 to 2017. Loans were also granted to officials of the Ministry who had never requested them or were granted as financial aid, for reasons of social perception and were deleted. The fact is that for the period 2005 to 2015 there were in an initial list of eighty-eight cases of loans and only sixteen employees appear to be subject to their payroll in reservations for the amortisation of the relevant loan. It is therefore not surprising that the auditors who carried out management checks in the Fund from the General Accounting Office of the State for the period 2005 to 2016 have carried out a management check. This is the first in-depth survey carried out on the financial operation of the fund, which not only revealed serious mismanagement and scandalous public money waste, but also evidence showing that this fund has been used over previous governments as a hub of mutual concessions and processes, of course behind the workers' back, in whose name the mutual fund has been established. It should also be noted that the fund was given to the political offices of the ministers, not only in terms of funding, but also in terms of staff management. In other words, at the time that New Democracy and PASOK were expelled, due to the suggestions of the lenders, they had been hired out of control as workers who had been made available either to the political offices of the Ministers, to the Ministry or to other bodies. The apparent resolution you are promoting is obviously in the spirit of turning into a pure centre-left so-called scandal free, with a desire to fight corruption. Of course, your government, like the previous one, are governments that are submerged in corruption and inconvenience. But you keep an organization in place, because you do not completely repeal it. And by arranged with officials in the Ministry's personal positions, this does not prejudge us with your tactics about the non-legalisation of the illegally recruited. The situation is already quite problematic and your actions should be at the same wavelength as the actions of justice in order to help in its work. However, since we have seen your own way of action, as I have said, and since you have found the same way to cover your own issues, it is certain that after the end of your own governance, a multitude of scandals, hoods and depots will come out of the light that you do not already hide them. So we have every reason to be critical of you and to hesitate to face all your energy. To abolish the New Acropolis Museum Creation Agency and its absorption by the Acropolis Museum is Article 8. The Agency was set up in 1994, but the purpose of its recommendation has been extinct since 2009. Among other things, the process of abolishing and moving to the new operational status is defined, while with regard to the staff of the organisation, which, according to the explanatory statement, amounts to about 30 employees, is defined as being transferred to the New Museum to individual jobs, which are recommended respectively. With this provision, it is clear that it must end the paradox of the continued existence of an organisation whose work has already been carried out, but the choice of the time of energy by the governors, along with the safeguarding of the jobs of the civil servants of the agency, through their transfer to the ministry, is deemed to be of a pre-election and a micropolitical nature. It is therefore rejected and condemned. In the private sector, however, the closure of an enterprise or a company also involves the redundancy of workers. With regard to the rest of the articles, allowances, offshore and other aids, they are clearly of a voting nature. If you want to give allowances or increase them, do it for other regions too, give other workers incentives to work, take measures to strengthen all areas. But it is challenging to raise 200% or pay the managers of state orchestras for 3,000 euros. Let us also see Article 17 on the "Greek Festival S.A.". This is another legal person in the wider public sector, which has dealt with both public opinion and audit authorities: Economic scandal at the expense of the Greek State of about EUR 3 million from double charges and invoice payments in 2013 and 2014, resignations of managers and internal personnel disputes, complaints of superb rentals and accounts of mobile phones. And the kernel in the cake: the underground relations between the exercise of power and the personal enrichment of all these "blackyalus" who rule Greece, especially since the post-population period. As regards the extension of the work contracts of the "Greek Festival S.A.", the same provision had passed in 2017 as an amendment allowing the Board of Directors of the "Greek Festival S.A.", until the internal regulation of the Festival has been completed, to renew the existing fixed-term contracts as well as project contracts, with the aim of satisfying the operational needs of the organisation, by way of derogation from the current legislation and not beyond 31 December 2018. You are now extending for another year these contracts which cost almost EUR 2 million to the state budget. That is why we say that your bills are rospheological and you are trying, even at the very last moment, to make sure that you do 'letters'. After all, this is evidenced by the choice of the board of directors. The former president who officially resigned on 31-1-2019 was a close associate of SYRIZA and responsible for the economic sector until 2015. The new president was Vice-Chairman of the Festival and Legal Adviser to the European Cultural Centre for Delphi. The current Vice-Chairman is a wife of SYRIZA, who until recently was in the political office of the current Minister of Culture. At the same time you forget the situation in which your own policies, society as a whole and how difficult Greek society is going through. At the same time as we are discussing this bill, the unwilling government of SYRIZA is preparing to inaugurate with majesty the Islamic mosque in the Botanic to satisfy her friends and attract thousands of more illegal immigrants to our homeland. We shall also vote against this bill, because we cannot legitimise a government that betrayed our Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. We proceed with the next rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u15	Do you want to? Are you in a hurry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u16	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u17	Okay. I will give you the floor after the rapporteur, Minister. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u18	This is a bill which attempts to deal with a number of loose ends of the Ministry of Culture, which we, of course, do not underestimate at all. First of all, however, we want to point out that, despite the individual arrangements that this has in a positive direction, objectively and functionally, on the basis of the general political direction of the government, which, like other social areas, such as health, education and culture, seeks to expand and deepen entrepreneurship, of course, with a view to the objective of capitalist development, namely capitalist profits. It is also a well-known interest in business groups in culture, which is certainly a tool for ideological manipulation other than others, hence the great importance that the European Union attaches to this area. This means, however, that culture, cultural goods in general are transformed into mere goods, which are, first of all, very expensive most of the time for poor popular wallets and therefore the great mass of the popular majority remains practically excluded from these important things of culture and of course completely exposed and helpless in the bolt of capitalist mass sub-coultour. The vehicle by which cultural heritage, the basis of culture, is transformed into an absolute commercial object is no more than the Euro-Union cutting strategy for NSRPs and Regional Operational Programmes. The example of archaeological sites here is enough. Their integration over the years into these European programmes was done and this was done and it was not, of course, the archaeological sites and monuments to become accessible and accessible to people's families. The opposite has happened and everyone knows that, despite the misappropriation of European funding, these monumental sites have finally become more expensive to the people, because the only criterion has been to exploit them and to increase the revenues from their visit, even if they shine in the eye of any business group and want to invest there, of course, in the unloving. This prospect and this aim of entrepreneurship and the commercialisation of culture is that led the SYRIZA Government and the European Union to agree on a transfer to the so-called superstition for ninety-nine years of our country's archaeological sites and cultural monuments for commercial use and this does not wash away with any amendments. However, this timely government policy on the rails of the European Union has also had negative consequences for workers in the field of culture, whether they work in co-financed projects of the regions or other bodies governed by public or private law, or even in those projects where the Ministry of Culture itself is self-satisfactory. First of all, speaking of these consequences, we have the creation of an army of workers hostages - 'conventional' are called them - an army which is increasingly expanding, while permanent work is becoming more and more difficult at the same time. This army of contractors is becoming even greater in the period of tourist peaks, where their work is intensified, so that they can then fly to the demands of unemployment and poverty. Then another consequence is the payroll of workers, with great delays in payment and usually with the lack of recognition of the service, without any security measures, with shortcomings in logistical means, but also with redundancies and wild terrorism of workers, that is to say, what constitutes the reality of the capitalist jungle, which is increasingly spreading in our country, with the care of the SYRIZA Government now of course. At the same time, state funding is not even some tenths of the unit, but a few cents of it in the budget as a whole. It was 0.04% in 2018 and this, for example, leads many museums to not be able to function properly or even close due to lack of staff. The closest example is next door, the Byzantine Museum, and a distant is the Twin wall Museum. Overall, staff shortages in the Ministry of Culture reach or exceed two and a half thousand workers. On the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Expropriations, the EFF, this crucial link in the management of cultural heritage - a fund, of course, which is also present in the articles of the first and most basic part of the bill - the biggest and most serious problem of this fund is for us the nature of it and the orientation of its role, which is, of course, defined by the framework and conditions set by the NSRF. What does this role contain? Outwarding, attracting individuals, entrepreneurship, privatization of functions, rewardability, increase of course the price of tickets and other such goodies of so-called capitalist exploitation. And while this fund could form programmes and activities that bring people together more and more closely, increasingly creatively with its cultural heritage, what does it do after all? It tends to play the role of a simple input mechanism through tickets that are constantly expensive either through the sales of souvenirs and copies. In fact, the government of SYRIZA here is already fading, because through the online ticket it launched the fund's payments twice and three times compared to before 2015, aiming to get this revenue from 105 million that was last year, to 400 million or even to exceed it, according to the goal of McKenzie's study. In other words, the government constantly says that it guarantees the preservation of the public character of the EDF, as if this prevents it from operating - barely even, we say - in favour of business investment and profitability in culture and ultimately overcoming popular cultural needs. We asked you, Minister, and yesterday we did not receive a reply - we hope you will say something about this today - for that cooperation agreement between the Chamber of Visuality and the EBRD, which we think will help the artistic work of the Greek creators. This agreement has not been implemented until now and this is the responsibility of the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture. It is also responsible for the Ministry of Culture, as is the command supervised by the State Theatre of Northern Greece for their refusal to sign a collective contract of work with the actors of the State Theatre in Northern Greece, who are struggling for months for it. Otherwise, the government and here it advertises the reintroduction of collective agreements. As we said at the outset, this is a bill dealing with various outstandings and, above all, the problem of mismanagement - it is, of course, a lenient, diligent characterisation - and a number of irregularities revealed in the financial operation of the Solidarity Fund. That is, of course, a condition of euphemism. A fund of assistance, perhaps subsidiary, but of solidarity in no case with the workers of the Ministry of Culture. According to the reports we are seeing, and also from the reading that we have been able to make the findings of the audit - because in the end copies were not given to us on the grounds of confidentiality, so confidential that these checks can be made available at the press offices and published everywhere - in accordance with this control most of the expenditure of the Solidarity Fund, over EUR 45 million, in the 12-year period from 2005 to 2016, which was, of course, financed exclusively by this Fund for Archaeological Resources, was channelled into actions outside the objectives of the Solidarity Fund. This is, in our opinion, another 'carabinato' case of what more stage of sepsis can lead government union in its attempt to strengthen and play its employer role. You will now tell me here that the employers' union, as was shown by the previous conference of the Federation of Private Employees, has already overcome these and is using openly not only the fraud but also the shells of the armed Employees, thus showing how much they want the workers to be subjected to the "l want" of their bosses. It is worth saying here that a large number of workers in the Ministry of Culture - they are around two or a few - are complaining that the fund books appear as a borrower from the fund, but have never been applied for or received a loan from this fund. With regard to the first part of the bill, the first seven articles refer to the establishment and operation of the children's post of the Ministry of Culture, as well as to the Fund for the Solidarity of Workers. We have the following comments and questions: Why should this child station cover only permanent and indefinite officials of the Ministry of Culture in Athens and not everyone, as it accepts only 66 children? Why should it not be planned to acquire those extra infrastructures that are needed and, of course, to increase their staff in order to serve the needs of all employees, permanent and temporary workers, but also contractors, as we say? Furthermore, why should this need for children's facilities not be satisfied for the workers of the Ministry of Culture who are outside Athens, as well as for the whole of our people? In fact, we say that if the number of children of infants of childbearing age is not sufficient to set up a kindergarten in the region, then the government must grant such families an allowance. With regard to Article 2, which we will of course be voting in favour, we are concerned about the fact that care will be taken to ensure that the child service is continued uninterruptedly and how this function will be ensured at that crucial stage in the transition period, because we are all aware of the hurricanes and delays that exist due to the lengthy procurement procedures. How do you think about dealing with all this? For children's camps, of course, we say what we say about children's stations, namely that they should serve the needs of all the workers, permanent, unlimited time and contractors in the Ministry of Culture and, of course, those who are supervised by them. The seventh article of this section is, of course, being voted on, since it solves a working problem of workers at the nursery. However, we have a point which we consider to be important, and we want to table here our disagreement with paragraph 7 of this article, which is, in fact, an extortion to the workers that, by accepting the position they have in the new organization, they will cease - it says - any financial or other requirement of the officials involved against the fund. Why, Minister, stop? Don't they have the right to claim them? Why should they accept that these should be lost? We will also support the provision of Article 8, after satisfying a consistent demand by the workers at the New Acropolis Museum Creation Organisation, who are certainly working uninterruptedly in this museum and are now in the public sector by means of personal positions, and who to date have said so - even though they have not had any of the rights of officials, i.e., they have had the negative public and private sectors for years. Let us stand by the rules of operation to which Article 11 is aimed - and we of course vote against - for the Greek Film Center, the National Opera and the Congregation of Music. We are vertically opposed to this article, because these regulations are the key tool for all the reactionary restructuring of recent years to state cultural institutions with budget cuts, with exodus in the search for sponsors, with the 'bulk' of evaluation and with their private financial function to bring about an increase in their tickets, i.e. restructuring that ultimately counteracts the social cultural needs and the needs of the authors themselves and workers in these areas. I shall also say a few words about the provision concerning the workers at the "ELELAND FESTIVAL S.A.". We are voting for the provision by which contracts are renewed once again, only because at the moment the workers at the company "ELLENIKIKI FESTIVAL S.A." are still still still still hanging out. However, we think - and we say this again - that they are not permanently permanent and very cheap on the government's excuse that it is needed - it says that a whole year is necessary to establish the rules of procedure necessary for this purpose. For the amendments, we will be placed in the denology and we will be placed with'residences' in principle for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, has the floor to support the amendment by a general number of 1994 and a special 43 titled 'Regulating the matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Development'. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment could have gone without a debate, but it was a misunderstanding - I suppose some comments were made yesterday - and I also saw them in the press - which are not accurate. What's this about? In international organisations such as the OECD, we have a permanent delegation. In the past these delegations, unfortunately, were arbitrary. That is what we received was a system without rules and without transparency. The Minister in practice did what he wanted. The Stathakis law entered rules and the duration was defined, namely how long the employees stay there. We first found some employees with ten and fifteen years. It has been stated that all officials will be left for three years with the possibility of extending two more, it has been defined how many officials will be, but also other elements, which create a regularity, a level playing field and a transparency. These changes provided for in the Act were incorporated into the Organisation of the Ministry of Economy and Development and are in the form of a Presidential Decree, which is why the changes made are now being made to the Presidential Decree. How did we implement these regulations? Any changes had to be made, where secondments took place, an invitation to tender. In such a case that three employees had to go, there were eighty applications. The tendering procedure shall be carried out within the public administration area, not only by the Ministry concerned. There were eighty applications. There were interviews at twenty-three eventually. The three were elected by a majority of six by the committee appointed and the Minister selected the three. So we have not just legislated rules, but we have also implemented them in practice. I must say that these have also had a positive impact on the functioning and performance of the organisation. What do we do now? Some individual changes that the services of the Ministry have noted from their experience that they needed. Firstly, the OECD's working language is English, so we ensure that the head of staff knows English from there and beyond, if he knows French, that is an advantage. Secondly, as far as degrees are concerned, the doctorate is desirable, but if anyone has one, two or more postgraduate qualifications, it is accepted first. If there is someone with higher qualifications, it will of course be chosen. We are broadening the area of potential candidates. The most important thing - I would say - is this change: so far, our officials' term of office has been naughty. It could, in other words, end someone's term of office in March, April, May. The OECD has a dead period from 15 July to the end of August. So we now see to it that all changes take place at the time of death, and precisely because the term of office of two officials ends in March or April, we extend their term of office until July, so that we can achieve this homogenisation. There is therefore no question of photographic provisions or of any other feasibility. What are we planning in the future beyond these changes? The most essential thing is to be able to make the country's presence essential to these agencies. Unfortunately, this is not always the reality. In fact it means participating actively and having as a country an opinion on the issues and policies that are being discussed and formulated. The second, too, is important to draw knowledge, experiences and good practices from this participation. Without saying that we have exhausted the possibilities, but at least in this body, because I have the responsibility of this ministry, I must say that important steps have been taken over the last few months, which they are starting and giving. And in that direction we continue. I therefore call on you to accept the amendment because, as I have explained, it solves some problems and is in a positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. The Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr. Army, has the floor to support the amendment, with a general number of 1993 and a special number 42, on the question of the regulation of the competence of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Here you go, Mr. Army.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. As we said yesterday in committee, we are tabling these amendments to address several urgent issues, concerning the operation of the Archaeological Resources Fund, the extension of the electronic ticket and the possibility of some payments to officials from the Ministry, which for technical reasons cannot be made at the moment. The first amendment concerns staff issues from the Archaeological Resources Fund. Paragraph 1 gives the possibility of new transitional contracts - a bridge to temporary staff already employed in the Archaeological Resources Fund - to sellers in archaeological sites and to extractors in laboratories - until the new recruitment procedures of the new temporary staff are completed. The next paragraph establishes an ad hoc mobility procedure for positions of responsibility. In essence, it is clarified that the mobility that can be applied to the Archaeological Resources Fund may also cover positions of responsibility. In this way, we aim to cover major gaps in staffing the agency, of course, in view of the new organisation that I will talk about later in my place. The next paragraph has to do with tax matters of the Archaeological Resources Fund. The Archaeological Resources Fund shall be taxed for part of its revenue. Mostly, it is taxed for rents and deposit interest. In the past, they had not been paid, these revenues had not been declared and there has been any obligation. The beneficial provisions of the law were used to declare undeclared incomes. As there has been a delay in payment, a technical fine arises - so to speak - and a beneficial provision is actually lost. The regulation we are bringing does not need to be paid by the Archaeological Resources Fund anymore. It's practically public to the public. This has been agreed with the Independent Public Revenue Authority. It is therefore clear that we must move forward. The next provision relates to the strategic cooperation of the Ministry of Culture with the Ministry of Education, in order to extend the online ticket to archaeological sites, monuments and museums as a complementary way, as we have explained in the committees, by using the know-how of the National Research and Technology Network. This is a well-known authority body, which will help us precisely in this difficult task. Finally, as far as payment issues are concerned, they are payments that have not been made, but they must be made, because they relate to the actual provision of services by officials from the Ministry. The first case is some off-site with a minimum total cost of EUR 6,000, made by officials. There had been decisions, but for some reason they had not been published in the 'DENMARK'. This creates a technical difficulty. That is why we need this regulation. The second provision relates to payment of a fortnight to cleaning staff whose contracts had been extended at the end of 2017. There was a technical gap there, which we need to cover with this regulation. The third paragraph concerns the cases of legal instruments, i.e. the conversion of contracts by way of the resignation of the State. The judicial decisions of these officials have become final. There is a technical gap between the day of the resignation of the public and the day that they are finally placed. Those of them in the intervening period - and most of them worked - will now be compensated for the work they have provided. These are the amendments. Also, I have tabled and would like to read two legislative improvements to the body of the bill that we have tabled, of course, explaining them. The first is for Article 7 and it concerns the part of the staff of the mutual fund. It is essentially clear that once the law is passed, and therefore the process of transferring this staff to the Ministry of Culture begins, this staff can be employed to meet needs and the Ministry. In fact, in this transitional period, they will be able to meet the needs of the Ministry. The second subparagraph of paragraph 8 of Article 7 is therefore added as follows: ‘In a decision of the Management Board of the Fund, the Administrative Staff of the Solidarity Fund may be allocated to meet the needs of the central and regional services of the Ministry of Culture and Sport at the request of the Directorate-General for Administrative Support and Electronic Governance’. As far as the next legislative improvement is concerned, in practice it is the addition of the specialty of the divers that had not been inadvertently included in the original provision, as we have tabled, on the travel allowance off-site. They're the divers of the National Antiquities Branch. In Article 9, therefore, the words ‘archaeologists, engineers, conservers, workers and designers’ are replaced by the words ‘archaeologists, engineers, conservators, workers, divers and designers’. I would also like to make it clear: a parliamentary amendment has been passed on to Members concerning the Brandenburg Museum. We have decided to withdraw it from this bill and to submit it to the committee procedure of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which starts shortly in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would like to ask for some clarification on the amendment from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u24	Here, Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I would like some clarification, Minister, on the amendment. First of all, the online ticket, Mr. Undersecretary, operates in all areas that apply to a single platform. Today, the platform is held by the EDF. Will the new sites continue on the same platform? You talked about three different ways. How is the homogeneity necessary ensured? We want you to clarify who is the owner of the platform and why the e-ticket version for B2B from the platform does not work productively. We have seen that for the issue of group tickets - more than nine tickets, i.e. - the functionality of B2B is not used directly by the agents, despite being ready for months. All transactions are made not directly by the agents, but through the mediation of employees from the Rovert Galis office. If you can answer all of this, then we can discuss the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u26	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u27	I would prefer to respond to my position better so as not to delay my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u28	We continue with the Special Speaker of the Association of Centres, Mr Anastasio Megalomustakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today coming to vote on a bill, which, although it is concise, has everything and is trying to solve major problems that the Ministry of Culture has been stumbling up for years. Starting with the first two and most important things - we would say - capital, according to the legislature, we are again attempting to rebuild, especially in the multi-faceted fund of mutual assistance from officials. For the first time, you say, we are seeking to treat the long-term pathogens of the Ministry of Culture and Sport as a whole. We would prefer at least those of the Central Association, which insist on the sense of the measure, to be more modest and certainly more careful in our expressions. While first of all there is the impression that something is settled by the chronic illnesses which affect your ministry, as we have heard you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, say to all the committees, we do not believe that you will be able to do so. And I'll explain why. In particular, the bill as it comes is a series of fragmentary provisions, without any cohesion at all. They are trying to settle supposedly, but what they actually manage to do, in fact, is to perpetuate the embrace of political leadership with unionism and to guarantee jobs and personality. We are very afraid that this is to serve party interests and now that we are before the elections and vote. Amongst other things, there is provision for the permanentisation of staff hired many years ago to the fund by means of conventions currently being investigated by justice, and that has something to say. But remember what has happened. The preliminary conclusion, from the audit carried out by the General Accounting Office of the State for the years 2005 to 2016, decided that there are too many economic and management problems, i.e. infringements, and among them the recruitment of officials who were never foreseen by the founding act. And all of this was burdening the fund with about a million and a half euros. The conclusion of the auditors gave the fund a few months to answer the legality of recruitment, as was the case with other findings, otherwise the case would be brought to the hands of the Prosecutor of Economic Crimes in search of any criminal liability. In this bill, therefore, the child station operating the fund and its staff are also transferred to the structures of the Ministry of Culture and the direct financial connection between the Solidarity Fund and the Archaeological Resources Fund is stopped. However, the kindergarten will not be financed directly from the EDF, but will be financed by the Ministry which will receive revenue from the EDF. You understand that this is very paradoxical and certainly does not change anything at all. It can only concern us, then, that the guarantee of transparency, good administration and the avoidance of past errors is the Ministry's political leadership. Once again all the responsibilities and responsibilities come to be given to the Minister through ministerial decisions. All in your administration and your way of legislating are solved by ministerial decisions. And here's something like that. We really do wonder how the resolution will come, how you manage to decapitate officials from political and costly relations. That's not how resolution comes. As long as the political leadership, the political leadership in question, holds the future of the officials, then we cannot achieve the abstraction of the public sector. The main point, however, is Article 7 on the regulation of staff issues, which always provides for the resolution, as you want to say. He comes to appoint the employees of the fund, even bypassing the AACC, and this in a pre-election period. I don't understand why you keep making the mistakes of the past. I cannot imagine that there is someone in the Chamber who claims that you are coming to appoint in public and others who, as we said about how they are appointed, are controlled by justice. In this draft law you also brought us the abolition of the New Acropolis Museum's Creation Organization ten years later. We have also told the committees that 10 years after the creation of this organization is abolished. That is, you keep doing exactly what others didn't do. Once you are a government and then, near the four years now, you have not abolished the agency and you have come to do so now, in a pre-election year, even by putting officials from the private sector in the public sector, bypassing the ADP once again. We as the Central Association have stressed many times that we are in favour of the worker, but of course there must be equal treatment for all. So you manage to continue the climate of division that exists in Greek society, so you manage with the previous ones to maintain this war between civil servants and free market, while they must know that one is serving one another, that one cannot exist without one another. You need to think about this and do things right, give universal solutions, universal solutions that do not exist to question. But it is not the case with this bill either. We now go to the other issues, to the other provisions, as you say. I'm going to give them up in the outlines: Possibility of setting the working days out of the office and beyond the applicable limits for the staff of the Ministry in a series of branches. Granting of a monthly allowance of EUR 300 000 to officials of the Ministry of Culture serving in Delos. Legalisation of the cost of compensation paid to workers at the European Cultural Centre, Delphi, retrospectively. Redefinition of diplomas as qualifications for the appointment of the Master Art History at the School of Fine Arts of Panormos Tinos. Extension by decision of the board of directors of the company "ELLENIKIKI FESTIVAL S.A." and by way of derogation from the existing legislation on renewal, existing fixed-term work contracts. So, just reading the other provisions, it seems to me to be a pity now, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, to me - by a majority - that what you are serving is micro-participatory interests. I would not say the same if these problems were solved in the first or second year. But you are now doing so in an election years and everything you do has something to say, even the time that a draft law comes. This draft law we are debating is a bill that really gives solutions. But it does not solve definitively, universally, without the leader of the state field being involved. And to close, I would like to make a report - to be recorded in the Minutes - about Tymbos in Amphipolis. I do not understand why we continue to make use of this important archaeological site. Why do we not commit, in particular, the government, by the Ministry of Culture, that it will proceed to a direct emergence of this place? I don't understand why we've been blocking all these years. I know very well that the work at that monument must be done very carefully. I know, however, and very well that the necessary steps are not taken so that this can be done immediately and quickly. And unfortunately, what is heard in the Serb society - and we see that it is also strengthened by your improperness - is that you are afraid. And that even strengthens the patriots. Because I have said several times from this step forward that, for the rise of the extreme right, it is the policy pursued by the governments to date. You give them the argument that if something very important is found there and it turns out that Macedonia was and is Greek - ancient Macedonia - why would you give them such weapons, with which we are being beaten by our Greek democracy? If you act as you should, if you show the importance of this monument, you will come out as well as all of our Greece. Another example of how you think that the archaeological monuments should be exploited and preserved is the demolition of the earthquake of July 2017 Greek monuments of Kos. Why don't you move on to immediate restoration? We don't understand why we don't take advantage of our legacy. Why don't we respect her? We have brought bills and I have heard many of you - and from the Ministry of Culture - say what their importance is. I have heard other fellow Members in the Ministry of Tourism bills talking about thematic tourism, archaeological tourism, to strengthen tourism in general through such actions and to highlight monuments. Why don't you do what you say is right? Let us finally see what the interest of our Greece is and see it all in this Chamber, removing our small-party interests. We can't come to this room and give medium-sized solutions. We cannot go up to this step and to the stage of the committees and say that we will bring this legislation, we will see whether it works and if it does not work, we will abolish it. We cannot legislate like this, and that was said in committee yesterday. We can't work like this. The Greek is tired. It can no longer stand to deal with the problems of the surface. That is what we have to do: to come here and give definitive solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, fifty-seven students and students and three of their teachers, from the second part of the 6th Petroupoli High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr. Army, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, the rapporteur of the new Republic has an extraordinary obligation and has asked me to delay. As a political courtesy, therefore, to continue the process with the Members and when I return, I will be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u32	No objections. We will continue with the speakers. Mr. Panagiotis Skourikos, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we read the title of the bill "Creating a children's station at the Ministry of Culture and Sport, regulating the issues of the Solidarity Fund" etc., one would imagine that it is a bill of routine, a bill of no particular importance, a bill of innocence. The truth is that in the previous Organization of the Ministry of Culture, in 2014, a section of a child station was planned. This arrangement has not been implemented. And since you did not apply your decisions, you forsake us because we did not. It's approaching the boundaries of comedy. We say that this is a bill, ladies and gentlemen, which heals situations of lawlessness, opacity, political transaction. According to findings from the General Accounting Office of the State that saw the light of publicity, we consider this to be the picture of the regime that existed until 2014. But what lawlessness could be hiding, would anyone say, in the context of a child's station? Let's see what we got here. Here we have a fund for mutual assistance of officials, a group of persons, which was collected from the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund at 1% of its revenue. Be careful, the EDF, this fund is the Treasury of the Ministry of Finance. It's a fund with too much revenue. And, by decision of the ministers of the New Democracy and of PASOK, 1% was given to this mutual fund. A fund, which has not and has no statutes, in which an administrative board has never been set up by a general assembly of elections and without any control. No one controlled the money they entered, 1.5 million a year. I have here for every year and I know very well every year since 1995 which ministers for culture have been through. No one controlled and invaded the money without giving anyone an account. Others, however, were denounced by this Step and by Mr Baltas, who both the New Democracy and the PASOK did not hear of it, were not placed. Why? Aren't overtime paid by the mutual fund staff - do we have the names of the ministers here - except for payroll and public accounting? Didn't Mr Baltas say that the fund hired officials to have them at the offices of the ministers and paid for the fund? What were those employees? Trade unions were New Democracy and PASOK. You didn't place yourself. You didn't place yourself on the loans they took with each other out of sight and we don't know what they were returning if they came back and didn't know those who got a loan that they got a loan. I didn't hear you talk. Here we have a scandal set up by the competent judicial authorities and there are many other findings, which are the prosecutor. So I would like the Minutes to submit reports on this whole story. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I should like to say that this government, by putting in perfect terms, creates for the precursor of the fragmentation of the public money that is the child-care facility, an independent child-care facility, which will cover the Ministry of Culture, with funding directly from the Ministry, of course, coming from the Archaeological Resources Fund. Seriously, now that things are being settled, will the Minister of Culture make a personal policy with this money and have the previous ones not transparently given a million and hired by these employees for their office, who did not pay them the state, pay them the solidarity fund out of the money that went through the Archaeological Resources Fund? What a hell of a machine that is? Good for you! How did you think about it? Congratulations! What about the employees? Because it was also heard by the Centro Association before, without an APA, indeed. Does anyone suggest that these employees should be fired? If anyone proposes it, let him say it, let him support it and make it known to both Parliament and to the Greek society. It sets the workers at the child station - who have been hostages so far - to the Ministry of Culture as a staff of indefinite duration, recommending personal positions. Subsequently, the Ministry covers the costs of children's camps, removing management from the fund, this fund that had such good management, so crystallized, so transparent over the years. From now on, there will be transparency, accountability, monitoring where everyone will have a picture at any time where the money is going, who manages it and where it is spent. I have heard, for example, of some EUR 90,000 mini-costs! Are these small-cost, charming and coffee, worth 90,000 euros? So there is an end to a long period of squandering of public money, ladies and gentlemen, while we are waiting, now, for the decisions of Greek justice to be taken on the scandal of operating the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture. There is an end to the political trade of the Ministry of Culture and Workers. If this is not called a state-owned union, what is the state-owned union? The second issue, the abolition of the New Acropolis Museum's Creation Organization, is also important. It is an organisation that has completed its operation since 2009. They kept it in life all this time, while holding it in hostage and employees. Yes, they are officials - and we have denounced it - who were hired without SAPA, clearly. Our government did not hire them. However, they are officials who have offered, who have specialties, who have been held hostage for so many years there. So these thirty employees, whom you hired, go to organic positions provided by the Acropolis Museum Agency from the 2009 establishment plan. Ladies and gentlemen, this ends a long cycle of lawlessness and opacity with regard to the solidarity fund for officials. It has been heard by the representative of the New Democracy - I think - 'What have you done for four years'? We've been running for four years. We ran and didn't get there, we run, and we don't get to collect such remula, opacity and smuggling of public money. That's what we've been doing for four years and we're going to keep doing it. We've got a lot of work ahead of us. So I call on you to vote in favour of this bill, saving the pretext for your faith in justice, democracy and good administration, in terms of public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u34	We shall proceed with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u35	We have told you what you are doing for four years - you are walking in the fifth, namely - and you are telling us that you were running and were not enough. But you did not say that to the Greek people, neither in January 2015 nor in September 2015. But you said to the Greek people, much more so that the Left was closely intertwined with the issues of culture, sensitivity, moral advantages and all that constitute the left account. And instead, in the course of your fifth year of your term of office, you are bringing in a bill, which many points - in my opinion - are quite positive, but it is still completely managemental. Is that SYRIZA's proposal for culture? Is this the SYRIZA's answer to the issues that have to do with constant problems of culture policy? Does this, as a case of work, have to manage a political leadership, and indeed the Left, which - I repeat - has built a career on the issues of culture? But it's just words. You have had the opportunity, of course, from the people, to deal with cultural issues as a governing party. We have today the children's station through the Solidarity Fund, where, in fact, as Mr Baltas quite rightly said, it has intervened with the prosecutor. It is indeed necessary to clarify and impose those sanctions which are needed and to have transparency. We are now leaving the state-owned, party-led union, which set up this case, we leave political leaders at large - neither my own nor my own, since you want to say so, except that they did not respond to the issue of the opacity and shadow that existed in the Solidarity Fund, we leave all this to ourselves and we are now giving it a legislative solution. But it is not what civilization is asking for today. These are not the problems faced by the forces of antiquities in our country. There's a horrific allowance, I'd say, for the archbishops of Delos. It's very right, but there are other problems. It is quite right - I say it - that Delos should be more attractive to the people whose shoulders our cultural heritage and our preservation are to blame and who should look very carefully. I will not, of course, plead for the closure of archaeological sites, because, indeed, this is something that binds and makes the archaeological monuments hostage but in any case is in the right direction. But it is not what I believe should have been in a bill after five years in the Ministry of Culture, such as simplifying procedures, strengthening volunteering, strengthening sponsorships, issues relating to prison, workers, who are - I would say - in a range of actions over the past decades, strengthening archaeologists who are currently investigating systematic excavations and who are trying through other donations and other institutions outside Greece to strengthen their excavation. We do not see all of this, and I believe that a hard effort in this direction would provide solutions and answers. But instead, we have the child service and the abolition of the Solidarity Fund - all right - and the settlement of the New Acropolis Museum, which - as our rapporteur said, Mrs Kefaliannis - had moved to the government of Samaras but, unfortunately, was not completed because of the end of the term of office - as you have said - of this government. After five years, we come to dismantle the agency, transfer the officials - archbishops and other administrative staff - and say that something is? I think you should see all this differently. I shall plead and stand with a very positive attitude throughout this route by Mr Baltas on the opacity, grants of ECU 40 million - requests for loans from the Solidarity Fund and 'I can't help it but there is no', that is, things unbelievably. There really had to be concrete intervention and there is one. But as a government - I would say - you have dealt with the issues of the amendments, these are simple amendments. They could come - the government is absent, but in any case the partners are listening - to these amendments. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I address you, please tell the Minister - very serious issues arise by means of amendments much more seriously than those. You brought a bill. A bill on these issues is being drawn up. Was it an opportunity for other amendments to come from other ministries? I saw Mr. Drasakis before. In any case, they are matters which I believe are far from effective and systematic intervention in the areas of culture. I see colleagues from the SYRIZA and other wings who could propose to the former Minister of Culture and others. They could put forward proposals on this, but unfortunately we have a management character - I repeat - interventions. I would like to say a few other things, which have been going on with each of us, concerning the so-called cultural reserve of the country in recent years, which has been in a merciful form. What, really, with Amphipolis? When there was the amphipolis case, there were - I would say - inter-Irish interventions and the media, as well as the scientific community. Radio silence! We hear nothing about Amphipolis and it would be very interesting to hear a view of the Minister, the political leadership, the State Secretary for this. As far as working hours are concerned, the Minister has, as far as I can tell you, kept modern culture and other matters to herself. Archaeological issues are in their fate. We have not seen any intervention from the Left Government on the issues of excavations, as I said before, and other issues. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I call for the Bureau's tolerance for a minute, Mr President. I want to say a few words on the issues in my country, in Laconia. The top issue is that a leading museum institution begins to move to Laconia. Sparta, as we all know, has only the old museum of the 19th century, which is a jewel but has no museum. Forty-three proposals have been made, forty-three studies have been submitted following the intervention of the Peloponnese Region, and I believe that state aid and support will also be provided. Where will there be help and support? Musician and museum study, imprinting the findings, "what is" which will be hosted in this museum, starting with the submission of these proposals. The scientific community seems to be very interested in the establishment of the Museum of Sparta. But I also ask for state assistance, because the establishment of museums is not only the responsibility of the regions, where there is a large part of the ESRB, but it is a decision and a central responsibility of the Greek state and I expect your position, support for museums and museums, as well as issues relating to individual competitions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, the Lakonia Antiquities Agency, which, with its staff, makes heroic efforts for the culture in Laconia and especially in Sparta and more extensively in the Region of Laconia, had proposed a specific programme along with the Polytechnics and the University of Peloponnese, in order to create a place branding, i.e. a case that would be exploited on an axis, with the core of the Museum of Sparta throughout the region, with the integration of archaeological sites and the rest, of 600,000 euros. Unfortunately, this has not been preferred, it has not been chosen as a programme, and so today you have endured it at all, and I ask the political leadership to see the matter again or to include it in another programme and to strengthen it financially. It is very little money of 600,000 euros for such a long-term picture. There are also the issues of Mystras, which are making considerable efforts and we are calling here for the state to help improve its visit. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left, which has always been a pioneer for many years, despite the fact that it has lost them, in the ideological struggles and in the struggles of culture and culture, in the common sense, I expected it to bring a bill, which we would have had more positive things to say and which would be a good surprise to us. But once again we have been disappointed and reiterated your evil self and legislatively, but also in matters relating to the Ministry of Culture. That's too bad! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u36	The Vice-President, Mr Mavroy, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law we are discussing concerns the establishment of a child station in the Ministry of Culture and regulates the issues of the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture officials, and abolishes almost a decade after the opening of the Acropolis Museum, the Organization for the Creation of the New Acropolis Museum. The rest of the legislation is corroborated on various issues that have been raised. So let's look at them in turn. The current social benefits to the officials of the Ministry of Culture, such as the operation of a children's station and the coverage of children's camp costs, which to date are managed by the Solidarity Fund, will now be provided by the Ministry itself for the sake of transparency and sound management of public money. The Solidarity Fund of Officials of the Ministry of Culture, which is controlled by justice for mismanagement and dismantling of public money, is dissociated from the Fund of Archaeological Resources and Expropriations, i.e. from the EFF, and is suspended directly from the revenues of the archaeological sites of the monuments and museums. The New Acropolis Museum Creation Agency is being abolished and private law is planned to be transferred to personal positions of the museum. The transfer of staff is reasonable, as from the outset they meet the constant and constant needs of the museum and have a significant share in its huge success and acceptance. Mr Pantemalis has explained them to us in committee too. Article 9 contains legislation on islands. The autopsies and the execution of archaeological works are facilitated and accelerated, mainly in the Cyclades, the Dodecanese and the islands of the northern Aegean and the Mount Athos. This actually increases the possibility of self-consciousness and of serving the citizen on the islands. So that's what we're positive about. Article 10 and the regulation of the payment of an allowance to the archaic guards in Delos - which has been heard many times in committee and in plenary, which is a very special case - we consider it reasonable to provide such incentives. However, there is one topic to see which other areas have similar needs of support and incentives. And we wonder whether an overall framework should be established which includes all of this in line with the specificities of each region. The article on the extension of works contracts at the “Greek Festival S.A.” is the same provision that had passed in 2017 as an amendment allowing the Board of Directors of the “Greek Festival S.A.” until the internal regulation of the “Greek Festival” has been completed, to renew existing fixed-term contracts. Now they're being extended for another year. It was over 31-12-2018 and these contracts were extended for another year. The issue here is when the Rules of Procedure of the “Greek Festival” will be finalised. The Agency needs a definitive solution that will upgrade it and strengthen its objectives and functioning against competition. After the debate in the committees and in the House, I think it is urgent that we look at some specific issues. For example. Where is the Agency of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund, for which, in the summer of 2017, there was such a recommendation, and whether this recommendation has been put into a drawer and has been withdrawn, as Mrs Luvi said? How has the study of McKenzie been exploited since 2012, which we have said to the committees, which thus gives some opportunities for the EDF to enter a developmental orbit, namely the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Expropriations, in order to exploit the Greek cultural heritage? How is it defined - has the Minister said some things, of course, but we would also like to see them in this bill in order to be more complete - the new phase of operation of the Solidarity Fund? How is their statutory purposes identified in order to ensure that they are transparent in its financial management and efficiently functioning? The fact is that phenomena of opacity, lack of accountability and cross-party customer practices must be eliminated. And because we have been given access these days to the conclusion of the Ministry of Finance for the Solidarity Fund, which involved monitoring for the period 2005 to 2016, has had this fact, not even much, twenty-two important findings. Some of these are the payment of cultural training allowances to the officials of the Ministry of Culture of 400,000,000 euros via the Solidarity Fund, while they were not provided for in its statutory purposes. In fact, for the needs of computerization, an additional EUR 144,000 was allocated in order to make these payments. A legal counsellor and a communication consultant with a fee of EUR 30,000 and EUR 74,000, respectively, was recruited, without any provision of a service. There are various costs which do not correspond to the objective of the fund. The Solidarity Fund was essentially working as a vessel with trade unions, as far as officials who were going. Private private law recruitment took place indefinitely in breach of the fund's founding act. Benefits were granted to contractors of EUR 676,000 with oral agreements, EUR 111,000 with two invoices with a well-known toy company without any registered and non-monetary transaction with the company. These are some of the twenty - two findings of the finding of control, which took place at this time. I am passing through, if you see the period from 2005 to 2016, you will find that there was a intergroup agenda for everything that was going on. So we come now and say that by cutting direct funding to the Solidarity Fund from the EDF, these pathogens will be corrected. I wish it were that simple. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of culture is seen by the fact that the three pillars of sustainable development, namely economic development, social cohesion and respect for the environment, have been added in recent years and a fourth pillar, which is respect for cultural heritage. This is of key importance for our country, since it has the blessing of having a timely rich historical and cultural heritage. That is why I take this opportunity to highlight the problem that has arisen in building large buildings over eight floors of the Acropolis, which is the global location of Athens, which we have also raised in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, and we have asked the relevant question about parliamentary control. In particular, on 21 February, we are asking whether all the administrative procedures envisaged have been complied with, how such irregularities will be avoided in the future, when they are created in the future, if they are considered to be more restrictive construction conditions and if the Ministry intends to carry out a review of administrative acts in cooperation with the Ministry of Energy. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] It is good that the Ministry of Culture states that, where necessary, institutional intervention will also be necessary in order to stop the situation, and the construction works will also be frozen until the issue is dealt with. However, it is a matter of the state taking a step forward and providing for such problems to be created and for only five to try to overthrow the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Mr. Sevastakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u39	It is very often the case that I am succeeding Mr Mavrotha or leading him. We are linked by this common destiny of the Metsovian Polytechnic, which is probably the longest relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u40	It's fate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u41	That's right. Mr Davakis had an internal monologue on production, utility, the contribution of the Left to culture. In the same way, he had responded but earlier than the question, Mr. Skourikos, to what the Left has brought together, what is the sign of the Left. It is no longer about these old ideological conflicts. The ideological conflicts have been eroded, new contents have been acquired, the poles have not had the civil-war features that had during the period for example the art inspection, where a visa, a world viewing, the world viewing of the Left, the poetry of the Left, the theoretical structures of the Left conflicted with the other side. Today we have a diffusion of cultural perceptions and there is also, in a way, a democratisation of culture, but at the same time there is also a massive decline, an impairment of it. The massification through the new instruments of culture is obvious that it sometimes plunges it. I would say, however, that although this bill has the title of the Ministry of Culture bill, it is actually very serious working arrangements. We have said that other culture and its institutional organization. There it invades working morality, cosmothesis, which is related to industrial relations and very practical issues. So this bill has to do with a retreat battle and sort of restore unfinished work and others. There's two big things I'd track down. Everyone has their sensitivities and one-ways. One is that he is trying to reconstruct a moral code, which is related to the supervised bodies and to the individual, to the child station and to what he was hiding, but without making a military gesture, that is, without somehow opening a bigger breach than what he is going to heal. The second is an article which has perhaps not been identified by the speakers or by the committee. Article 15 is of interest because it relates to the rights of the public regarding copies. Today copies are not just the prefixes, i.e. the property of the state from the reproduction of copies of ancient or modern. The copy has a very broad meaning. It's also the animation, it's the multiple narratives, the multiple illustrations, which may start with a head of Mercury and become a blouse, i.e. they become graphical applications. The Ministry is trying to acquire or recover or imply that it must possess its intellectual possession. And that's right. He's a key owner, a collective owner. And these are perhaps the most serious responses that concern the TIAD and so on. The most important owner of our spiritual capital either of the existent or of the emerging ones - because spiritual capital you know that it is evolving, research is constantly progressing - is the instrument of the state, that is, the Ministry of Culture, that is us through it. So we are going back to the original démarche that all the citizens, the ordinary citizens, who are outside the system and expressed by our collective body - who organize the national look at culture, which is the Ministry of Culture - must be strict in their control. The Ministry of Culture, like any other body, must not be autonomous, not be privatised at all. Because this is the case, having a pragmatic public sector but actually being made up of a sum of private arrangements, personal arrangements, sometimes self-employed arrangements. The Ministry must be a common, democratic and open body, which has suffered too many bodies for many years, namely the citizen, who must be open to the citizen, who must be controlled by the citizen, but must not be acceding to his mass drives and possibly self-sufficient moods. I would identify as an important improvement the upgrading of qualifications for the professor of Art History at the School of Fine Arts of Tinos. It is a very peculiar metalylic or pre-university structure the School, in essence, is sculpture that exists on Tinos. There has been an effort in recent years to improve and broaden his profile. I think the upgrading of qualifications is self-evident. Today history reading tools are just as strong. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Javarras is colluding with Mr. Xydakis and Mrs. Vakis is no longer a bridge.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u42	On the left is Mrs. Vaki. It is not a bridge. She's clean.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u43	It's your incision. So this School of Fine Arts is also very important for another reason that it receives a tradition. I would therefore strengthen Mrs Kefalidou's view as a man of broadspace, because in fact the raw material - which concerns her region - creates and is already a spirited, that is, a burden. It would therefore be interesting if there were more coordinates and more specific and perhaps more decimated proposals that could include Drama. In any case, the islands such as Samos, Ikaria, the Forens, our sites have a huge reserve that is contradictory, and the Ministry is fortunately in need of this stock of culture and popular culture, which is always or usually despised, I think it supports it or at least listens to the need to strengthen it. I'll hang up with an island next to me. The Brandenburg Museum is an unfinished one. We're not leaving her. It concerns Mytilini and her industrial history, and I think we will see this in the next legislative arrangements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. Mr Yiannis Andrianos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill, which is once again dealing with a number of partial issues, without showing some broader uniform strategy necessary to make effective use of the huge comparative advantage, which is culture for our country, for our country. On the one hand, the problems highlighted by the rapporteur for the New Democracy and, on the other, the resolution of the Solidarity Fund and the incorporation of the child service into the Ministry and the abolition of the Creation Agency of the Acropolis Museum are issues which obviously need to be resolved. But the time of the vote - that is, four and a half years in government and four ministers - of this bill raises questions about the real intentions of these arrangements. As far as the Solidarity Fund is concerned, it is characteristic that the management audit has been announced as early as August 2015. Since then, the process has essentially been completed, so that the issue can be brought back to the vote today. And indeed, while, from one year 2017, the government was talking about abolishing the fund, calling it a sinner, at the same time the Minister of Culture asked the FIFG to finance it with 350,000 euros. And it is characteristic that the government has handled the issue, that it has not even taken care to lift the confidentiality of the finding in time, on which it states that it bases its actions, and that the Members and members of the Committee on Culture are informed. As far as the kindergarten is concerned, it was already planned to incorporate it into the Ministry in the 2014 establishment plan. The current government, with the successive leaderships of the Ministry of Culture, has chosen not to activate the organogram, thereby perpetuating the problem, and today the so-called solution that is being promoted, goes to the day's day-to-day control of the Minister, who can, in his pleasure, determine the eligibility criteria. So you did not resolve an existing issue in time, taking advantage of the process in question. With regard to the Creation Organisation of the New Acropolis Museum, its dismantling and conversion to a completion organisation was planned to highlight the excavation of the museum's underground space, the creation of an outdoor museum, the operation and maintenance was provided for in the bill that we submitted in November 2014, as provided for by its dissolution after its completion, of course, with the completion of the organizational positions of the Acropolis Museum by the officials who served in that organization. The same is, of course, the case with delay, that is, in your decision to pay the benefits to the Archbishops of Delos, a question that you have had the margin to resolve for four and a half years now, in fact, in a broader regulatory framework so that it can cover other cases throughout the territory. Since, therefore, clandestineness and abstraction are constantly characterising the current government, I would like to draw attention once again to the urgent issues in the field of culture, which I have raised to you at the meeting of the Committee of the Regions, and in particular, the recruitment of archaic guards, cleaning officers and employees in museums and archaeological sites should be carried out without delay, so that they can operate at the beginning of the tourist season, as well as the supply of sales with products. It will be totally unacceptable to see the picture of chaos and shame repeated last year, that is, while the tourist season is basically beginning in our country since March, to sign contracts in mid-July. Finally, we must see culture as both a moral and national debt and the huge development tool that is to create jobs and stimulate the national economy and local economies. It is, in fact, a pity that the necessary modernisation of the EBRD, for which you were committed, has not gone ahead and has images of shame with closed and licensed sales and refreshments in museums and archaeological sites, with shortcomings other than staff in products and problems in cleanliness in archaeological sites of particular importance, such as Mycenas and the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus. Ladies and gentlemen, our culture needs and deserves a different approach, a comprehensive serious and responsible strategy, which we all have to serve together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Xydakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin with a praise, a congratulation award to the leadership of the Ministry of Culture, because, finally, after four years, a structure that produced disease, opacity and essentially was a wallet of political money is being restructured. We have said this from here, from the Step of the Parliamentary Assembly, that it was a micrograph inside the Ministry of Culture, and the first government of SYRIZA - Alexis Tsipras had raised the issue since the first months of the year, and in August 2015 we had ordered - it was me at the Ministry - management control. We understood the political mechanism and opacity there. Unfortunately, there are even other ministries of similar funds. And these should be cured and uprooted and this abundance, which on lofty lines is a union, an association of natural persons whose administration is formed by ministerial decisions and the funding again by ministerial decisions. It is also disgraceful for the labour movement founded on the foundations of the modern civilization of the West to have such a hug with political power, and it is also disgraceful for a democratic state to create such structures. Another praise is due to an initiative by the Ministry of Culture - again announced earlier - to announce the positions of artistic directors in artistic organizations. Every artistic community must assume the responsibility of selecting its people with democratic, open, transparent procedures, and the poor comments that have been heard about the barren competition at the National Museum of Contemporary Art, concern only the typical place. It'll be reopened and proceeded. The political direction, the political energy, is undoubtedly right. That is how it is done in all the countries of the West, to which we belong, and that is how it is to be done here. No Minister is always well-known and intelligent, so that all his actions and appointments of artistic directors are correct, and he cannot overlook the participation of artistic communities in the formation of a large organisation. It helps and assists the artistic community, through the elite bodies that are formed and chosen. After praise, the appeals and complaints to the Ministry of Culture. I would like to know what the Ministry of Culture has done with the Archaeological Resources Fund, at which stage is the proclaimed new organization. This is the engine of Greek civilization. This is the steam engine that can also feed the conservation and enhancement of monuments and heritage and be the blood donor of modern culture. The Archaeological Resources Fund is the great patient, and this body, which I believe, both unintentionally and, above all, will remain paralysed, in order for some scientists to take it. What has happened with an agency whose operating and organisation framework has been in place since the 1970s? He doesn't have a Director-General. He does not have a commercial manager. It does not have an organised computerization department. He doesn't have a financial manager. The agency has been declared at least two and a half years. Where is he? We need to have some answers. What are the institutions, organograms and internal rules to be applied to dozens of other supervised organisations of the Ministry of Culture? Where are these matters? What is happening with the non-applied Agency of the Acropolis Museum? The Acropolis Museum provides a position of Director-General and five addresses. What's the board doing? What is the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture? From this, Stepma had amended the founding law of the Acropolis Museum to extend the term of office of President Pantermalis. Did I then say from this Step that we are rewarding Mr. Pantemalis, who, after eleven years, has not implemented the organization? That's what we have to answer. It had exceeded the age limit and extended by amending the law. We demand that the President and the political leadership - they are administrative acts - implement the law. We do not apply the laws, we do not have organisations, we do not comply with the establishment plans, we do not comply with the internal rules of operation. Finally, we have to go beyond - and here we have first samples - the rigidities of the public administration by exploiting the know-how of the private sector. It's not taboo. No one should be taboo. It is taboo for neoliberalism, which wants to abolish the public sector. The public-private partnership must be exploited, when there is ready software, when the agencies are ready, when there are people ready. It is unnecessary for the public to discover the wheel from the outset and to set up stiff mechanisms, and we need to know that all this huge economic and cultural potential of the heritage can be a steam engine for too many things and for its maintenance and visibility, as we have said before, and for the purpose of fueling actions of modern culture that are costly and which are absolutely essential to a new national self-confidence. We can't make things over again. Let's use what's there. And understand by the Greek people, with examples and actions, that when you use your cultural heritage, you can also produce the necessary confidence and a new upgraded, open, extroverted identity of pride. We also need to give our fellow citizens to understand that it is a machine of progress, of production of social wealth, of good jobs and of multiple triggers of entrepreneurship. In short, this is practically consistent with a radical renovation of the Archaeological Resources and Appropriations Fund, in which I would expect to hear from the Ministry's political leadership what has happened after four years of governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. Mr. Christopher Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u49	The Opposition - mainly the New Democracy and the PASOK - denounces the bill as a fragmentary, election and without artistic breath. Artists themselves say that alas in the country that the Minister of Culture defines cultural creation and that art needs structures and infrastructures to bloom. So, if we have to be judged, we should be judged on these two facts. What's the picture we received? A bombed landscape in the area of culture, in the field of books, visuals, music, theatre, cinema. What was the latent or if you want the underground policy of the previous governments? It was what we were saying about the founding of cultural life, that is, the tradition of the strategy for culture in private cultural institutions. Do you want a typical example? When we came to the government in 2015, the thirteen modern cultural tradition halls were all private institutions, Congregation of Music, Center of Culture "Stavros Niarchos", Literature and Arts, Foundation "Theocharakis", "Kakoyannis" and go saying. Look at the picture today. So many opportunities for artistic creation. You know, since 2011 and on the Minister of Geroulanos, this policy has started to get flesh and bone and if you want a theoretical performance with the "white Bible". It was actually a transfer of responsibility to private institutions and the retreat of the state in all areas of cultural creation. Will anyone say 'and before'? I want that to be clear. We are not reminiscent of the era of prosperity, of so-called prosperity, of false prosperity, of well-being with borrowers and bubbles, nor of course are we reminiscent of the duplex that was up to our days, of the sub-culture for people's layers and of the reversal of food from the metropolitan capitalism for the elites. We are also not enemies of institutions. On the contrary, we recognise that many of them produce a product, and indeed, with their own resources. Most of them, however, are closed cultural management sites. What is needed to produce a culture and a free one? We're not saying it doesn't exist. This is a second finding of the crisis, namely that at the same time as poverty, a suffocating context, artistic creation was blooming from every resource in society. It is impressive how many initiatives, collectives, produced art, produced intellectuals, produced visual creation in the time of the crisis. What we need for us is to create the organisational structures - that is why the particular article that speaks of the obligation of organisations in Lyricia, Megaron, the Cinematography Centre - artistic independence - said Mr Xydakis, the obligation to be able to choose the artistic director with a free public tender - and the safety and dignity of workers, as this bill lays down on many occasions. I will also make a comment that is interesting from the debate with the institutions on this bill, on the Solidarity Fund. It's, as Mr. Delis said, a fake name. That is not what this is about, it is not about a Solidarity Fund. You know in the tradition of the trade union movement, in the tradition of the labour movement there are the Solidarity Fund as part of its formation, its autonomy. First of all, this management committee is not a product of social autonomy. On the contrary, it is an instrument where there are workers, there is the Ministry, the employer and the means are dealing with various issues, which relate to either the day-to-day or campsite, as subsidiary insurance, one-off and everything. These are management agencies. To be a self-security fund, it requires social autonomy. Social autonomy means that his address is chosen by the workers themselves, is accountable to the workers and therefore re-elected by the same workers, which is not the case. If that were the case, then we wouldn't have the symptoms of corruption, we wouldn't have the phenomena of state trade unionism, we wouldn't have the courts inside the trade unions. We'd be able to control and self-clean. I'm going to hang up with a very documentary event. You know, for three years we haven't been able to do anything about the Body Insurance Fund. Do you know why? Because in October 2014 his term of office was renewed, while ending in February 2018, precisely so that we can't control it. Because the statutes did not allow the State to control this body. So, when we were accused and denounced, they must show a little otherwise and what their previous policy was, what the facts were, and how the future is imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u50	So do we. The Minister for Defence, Mr Apostolakis, has the floor to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of National Defence has tabled an amendment to two urgent amendments. One relates to the civil staff of the Ministry and the other to the top officials of the Armed Forces. As far as civil servants are concerned, the amendment regulates the procedures and criteria for selecting heads of the Ministry of National Defence and has two articles. The first concerns the mobilisation of officials who are candidates for the posts of heads of staff. In particular, in the Armed Forces, there is a School of Computer Planners, which provides quality training for higher education in a wide range of subjects, such as the development of computer networks, infrastructure systems and so forth, and this school also organises seminars organised by the Ministry's officials in order to draw up individual IT issues. This semester education we want to mobilize to reflect on the image of the officials judged to be heads of the real image of their qualifications. The regulation we are proposing is part of the Civil Service Code. It sets a limit to the maximum number of seminars that are mobilised and fully in line with the legal framework which generally governs civil servants from other bodies, who, moreover, already receive a corresponding number of molecules for their own positions of heads. The second part relates to the selection boards of Heads of the Ministry of National Defence, in which the Heads of Directorates of Civil Staff of the three general staff are involved. The purpose of our regulation is to ensure that there is greater transparency and impartiality in these crises, and that is why we exclude from these boards those officials who are judged of posts in the staff of which they are already serving. The Council will be formed in a draw, and I think no one can dispute that, in this provision, we are providing the guarantees of genuinely fair and non-discriminatory collective bodies. Additional arrangement in this first part is the participation in the Special Selection Council of the Special Secretary of the Ministry of National Defence vis-à-vis the Secretary-General, because it is a regular one no longer the Secretary-General but the Special Secretary, who is the Head of the Single Administrative Sector at the Ministry of National Defence. The second article of the amendment relates to military personnel and constitutes a regulation of an openness, which has been in existence for several years, regarding the categories of senior officials governed by the earlier hierarchy and promotion law, Law 2439/1996. This law, although it has been amended several times to be modern and functional, still contains provisions that require adaptation to the current needs of the Armed Forces. One of these concerns top officers with a final rank, namely those who, because of the House to whom they are serving, are the highest ones to whom they can be promoted. So these officers, when they have thirty-five years of service, are forced to be released as soon as they complete one year to the extent of them. The law today removes from the General Staff Board the possibility of judging whether or not a senior officer can and must remain in his post for a reasonable period of time, but is necessarily leading to his retirement, having just a year to the extent. The obvious problem posed by this provision is that it deprives the leadership of the Armed Forces capable and worthy executives who have long and useful service, but also the experience they need in their position. With the amendment, therefore, which we are doing today, we are enabling the heads of industries to choose to stay in the service of these officials for a further year, as is the case with the officials at the rank of a Brigadier General, who have different origins and a higher degree of endpoint, for whom there is, of course, neither a relative restriction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u52	And we thank the Minister. Mr. Undersecretary, do you have to present an amendment too?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u53	Yes, Mr President, but he hasn't come yet. This is an amendment not to my Ministry but to the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u54	Good, Minister. Mr. Iliopoulos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased that Mr Javarras is here to remind him of what was said and what he had called me 1st - 8-2017, Mr Javarra. I had already spoken about your great mission, your congressman, Nikos Georgiades, and you spoke to me without shame, about what I was saying. You weren't expecting justice, you supported him with warmth, that's what you said. You covered him up, and you said specific, your words are, I was listening to them in the video today...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u56	It is out of the question, but you will give me the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u57	He'll give you the reason to answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u58	I'm not talking to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Javarras...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u60	I'm not talking to you, sir! I'm talking to the president!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u61	All right, I'll tell you what you said then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u62	You make the huge mistake of addressing a Member personally, while Rule 66 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure prohibits anyone who goes up to this Step to a person, but has an obligation to address this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u63	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u64	We're not going to personalize our relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u65	We don't have to impersonate! First of all, we have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Javarra, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u67	With pedophile friends, I have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u68	You're a representative of fascism and I'm a representative of democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Javarra, I'll give you the floor. Have a seat!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u70	There's no field of communication between us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u71	Clearly there isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u72	Get the hammer!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u73	Bravo! Get the hammer!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u74	As long as you're addressing me personally, I'll...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u75	We don't have any contact points with pediatricians.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u76	You're a representative of fascism!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u77	With pedophile friends, we have nothing to do with it at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u78	They belong to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u79	So he said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u80	Those come from your brains.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u81	Well, listen a little, gentlemen of the New Democracy that you're supporting pedophiles. Listen to what you were saying. On 1st -8-2017 Mr. Javarras said: He called some guys, he says, like me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u82	You're the type.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u83	Yeah, yeah, yeah. And he was talking about vulgarity. Of course, it wasn't what I said. It was so much that your Member did, I hate sitting in the same chairs as a pedophile who paid 18 euros to go with minor boys.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u84	You will not personally address Mr. Javarra now. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u85	But what do you want in here? Do you want us to hide everything? Mr President, justice yesterday spoke. We're talking about a convicted congressman. Do you want us to hide it? You want to put everything under the carpet?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u86	Do not address yourself personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u87	I'm not addressing it. I have no reason to speak. So Mr Javarras said that we had to do self-clearing before we entered Parliament. And that's what I'm saying. I agree with him. We have to do our self-cleaning before we get in here. Yesterday, then, justice spoke. We don't talk in the air anymore, we don't talk without clues. We're talking with complete evidence, unrelentingly about a man. Because you're talking a lot and you're saying things, I'd like here in the Practical Ladies to testify to this picture that shows Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr. Georgiadis and with the boulder! Fairs the day your Chief came out...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u88	You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u89	Why? You're not allowed? Really? You're not allowed? Nikos Georgiadis one, Adonis the other. They're celebrating. I'm doing it, too. Better analysis, the two Georgiades, on the day the President of the New Democracy was elected. Here, in another, he's with Mr. Dendias, Mr. Georgiadis. I testify to her, too. And here again with Mr. Mitsotakis. This man was sitting here, in these benches, without shame, of course, about what he had done. When they caught him in Moldova, he used his diplomatic passport to escape and come here to have the full coverage of Greek justice. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All this is happening in Greece, ladies and gentlemen. They don't happen abroad, they don't happen in Australia. Yesterday the media played for a pedophile pastor in Australia, but not a word about Mitsotakis' right hand. I don't know what to say. I think it's stupid? Bullshit? In his statement, this man said: "Metsotakis is a forty-year friend of mine. I was Mitsotakis' right hand in his election campaign, when the President of the New Democracy came out." In fact, I will read about what this man said by apologizing. Mr Mitsotakis told him - he said it in court, I am not saying it - 'Get away from the scene for two to three months until he does the matter - you are not going to be tried - and you will soon be back again normally'. If you wish, then, of the New Democracy - and I do not impersonate it, although you will answer and support it - answer the substance. Has justice been made clear? Responded. So tell us who this man is, his right hand, this shadow advisor to Mr. Mitsotakis. Unprecedented, of course, in our parliamentary times. It's unprecedented, indeed. You're absolutely right. I would like you to ask for at least an apology from the Greek people, to apologise to these little children who were brutally raped by your colleague, and of course, to apologise to the innocent, unjust patriots who believe in "Patris - Religion - Family" who are trapped in your party. Which "Patris - Religion - Family", of course, since in a few days we have learned - the carpets have already been purchased - the mosque is inaugurated in Athens, a mosque that feasts together, SYRIZA and New Democracy, built in the center of Athens. You, the Syrians, of course, have others. You have betrayed our Macedonia, again in cooperation with the New Democracy. We must not forget these, because the name "North Macedonia" was given in 2008 by the New Democracy with Bakoyannis and Karamanlis. Today Mrs. Gerovasili went to Ptolemais. It was welcomed with great love by Ptolemais citizens. Wherever you go, they're kicking you out, they don't want you, they think you're unwanted. You're a government of a so-called democratic state that didn't even bother... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Be sure to consult, Mr. Javarra. Bravo! I'm glad you're consulting Mrs. Vaki. That's not what the camera looks like, and that's what happens. We'd seen him talk the other day...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u90	Do you take responsibility for what's going on over there?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u91	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u92	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u93	I tell the world what's going on underneath it. Because I'm talking about the conspiracy of New Democracy and SYRIZA...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u94	I'm asking if you're taking responsibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u95	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u96	You're on it. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u97	At the time I'm saying New Democracy and SYRIZA coexistence, I see it happening in front of me. Clearly, I'll say it. Why shouldn't I say it? Is that a secret?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u98	It's not a secret at all. Let's go later now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u99	Every day, therefore, in all the cities of Greece, where your executives are trying to tell about the great account of Macedonia, about the super patriotic Prespecies Agreement, they are kicking you out. You're driven away, you're not acceptable, and you're regarded as traitors, as we see you as traitors. A nationalist government must come soon so that this country can finally cleanse our Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u100	But that word must not be heard in here. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u101	I'll go up to the Stepma, because I'll answer the gentleman on staff, but I'll be on my way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u102	I'll answer him later on staff. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u103	Don't fall!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u104	What are we gonna do now? Is the staff meeting going to be doing here now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u105	If he wants it that way, so will we.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u106	Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I am forced by you, who told me that we would place on staff, to take on as a person against the representative of fascism, to defend democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u108	You're the representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u109	And I say that, because as long as you heard him break the Rules of Procedure and personally address me, you didn't call him to class. So, well, you liked it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Javarra, please too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u111	Please very much, you will allow me to speak. I'm neither a symmetrical nor a golden man.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u112	Why do you say that? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u113	Listen to me and if you want to deprive me of my word...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u114	Not at all. I barely did!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u115	I'm going to be so embarrassed that you're presiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u116	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u117	What I say is written and written. So listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u118	Change your style.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u119	I do not owe any response to representatives of fascism. I must, however, have the self-evident advocacy in favour of democracy, which every day is affected and abused by reasons of people who not only violate the cultural framework within which we are all called upon to fight our battles, rather than against all the differences that we have or divide, but when I hear one of the steps of this House, who has been honored and is a Member of this Parliament to confuse and refer to persons who, firstly, do not participate in this Chamber and have no right to defend themselves, secondly, it is...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u120	They had it in court and they were convicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u121	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u122	Give him the right. I'll stay here, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Javarra, please too! Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u124	Because your tolerance is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u125	What are you talking about? The language of your mind is on the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u126	Your tolerance to the golden people is unacceptable, to those who rape democracy, to those who daily abuse democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u127	You're serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u128	Please, sit down. Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u129	These subjects came to the House to tell us that we are allegedly in the New Democracy following the vulgarity in which they believe and swear. They came here to tell us why they mustn't have realised that all mental anomalies and all sexual degeneration are related only to fascism and not democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I will reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u131	Go see Pierre Paolo Pazolini's work, "Salo". You'll see yourself in there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u132	You'll see yourself! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u133	It photographs you and portrays you as an ideology, a culture and a presence in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u134	Quiet, please! Don't make me apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u135	That's why, when you come, some have to respect them. However, respect for people who do not believe in any democratic value, respect for people who have nothing to do with parliamentaryism, but who are always here to join Parliament's debates as a scandal, those who make use of the scandals only to cause the people to take care of their presence, are unnecessary for democracy. Unfortunately, gentlemen, you have nothing here to offer but your old humanity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u136	You guys are crazy. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u137	Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u138	Shame on you! You're legal too! You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u139	Sit down! Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u140	I can hear you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u141	Democracy teaches morality. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u142	What I do, Mr President, should have done with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u143	What are you talking about, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u144	I say what the Rules of Procedure say. Obviously, you're ignoring the Rules of Procedure. So I told you that anyone who comes up in the Step of the House and speaks from where I am now rather than from this House. You allowed him to see what happened. So you have violated your obligation to observe the Rules of Procedure and the House have been turned into it right here, the image it has today, which does not honor any of us. These gentlemen here come every little bit and their only problem is how they are supposed to show that all democracy is suffering, while the ones with their total mentality and the fascism they believe in, want to show that they are the only hope for the people. And unfortunately, they find some people who see this channel of the House and believe them, because all their barbaricity is enrolled in the spirit of anti-politicalism being cultivated by a portion of journalists and, of course, also by a portion of your party. That is why I am telling you that here more than ever before we must all agree on one thing: democracy is not self-evident in this place when phenomena are observed, when the principles and values established are violated and about respect for the right of every defendant to his innocence and to defend his innocence, and when the House has incorporated a directive in which there are also sanctions for anyone who violates respect for the presumption of innocence. So these barbarisms that took place here a moment ago, you, Mr President, were obliged to prevent them. That is why I have managed against you, and of course I have not done so because I do not like you, but because I must finally fight my battle in this Chamber and try to contribute as much as possible to better conditions for democratic dialogue, namely the Parliamentary Republic. The enemies of democracy under no circumstances and under any conditions and without any condition can have a step when they are undermining democratic dialogue in their words. That is why I express my disgrace, my disgustingness and I have nothing to do with what was heard by this honourable Member's mouth, who abuses both the word and the quality and confidence that the Greek people have shown to him when he comes into Parliament and creates this kind of image. I will now come to the bill. Mr Secretary, I would like the Minister to be here, of course. Apparently some reason to stop her from being here. I respect him. But I am one of those who believe and believe that when the Left was struggling to prepare the people for the invasion of the heavens, something more good and something more authentic, something more worthwhile to do with all this preparation. I never thought, therefore, that a government based on this spirit would bring here today a bill like the one we are discussing and would not conceal the fact that we have all understood, namely that it is a process which, if you had followed the follow-up of the things you received from the previous government, should have been solved in early 2015. As you know, this bill, both to regulate the issues of the Solidarity Fund and to regulate the issues of the abolition of the New Acropolis Museum's creation, was already settled on Mr. Tasouula. However, what really creates a problem is that Article 1 is being established - you say - and operates a kindergarten. I have a difficulty in understanding how it is possible to establish something that has been in operation for twenty-two years. I cannot understand how it will start to function since the law is published, something that you know as a day-to-day station and that all the workers who go to their children and engage in the services of the Ministry of Culture have understood that it is a provision of the state, just like this provision exists for many services in the public sector. However, what impressed me is when I heard my chosen colleague, Mr Baltas, list a number of actions that he has taken - and I congratulate him on it - which have led to a number of conclusions that have led him to justice. From there on, however, why should we be talking further, when justice has not yet been decided, and when we all recognise that anyone involved in justice has the self-evident right, firstly, not to disclose what he is accused of, if he has been accused - because I think he is still at the level of the preliminary examination, that is to say, no criminal prosecution - and, secondly, why should we not deal with some much more serious things? Even I, who have passed through the Ministry, have fully understood that this ministry, whether you are a left or a liberal, is being offered for a raid on the heavens of dignity, worthiness, merit, is indeed offered for an uprooting of society in processes of aesthetic, artistic activity, respect and promotion of our cultural heritage, because I, too, believe that aesthetic at last, should be the morality of the future. There's so much bad taste that it accumulates here in the halls. We're getting a start on this word north we've heard before. So there is all this negativeity, all this accumulated catastrophe coming out of our lips, many times just to have the satisfaction that the opponent has paid him. However, I am sorry that this is the way the illusion arises that the political one has to give its struggles with those who disagree, the way of complaint and the way of persecution, something which the government unfortunately has committed over these four years, because it is doing nothing but use the persecuting mechanisms to systematically offend its political opponents. I, Mr Baltas, would not like that, as would Mr Xydakis. I was, of course, satisfied by Mr. Sevastakis. I would like us all here together to fight for such a strong opportunity, so that this 'nuclear arsenal' which our country has with its cultural reserve can be used to solve the fundamental, serious economic problems that our country has with the bourgeois development it has so far ensured. I am telling you this because I have just taken over from the Ministry of Culture, in fact, what impressed me with its dynamism, with the great dynamic that could be developed, if it could be streamlined as an institution, was the EDF. Indeed, the EBRD is the only organisation in the world that has the right to produce and multiply patterns and copies of the largest and most famous masterpieces of world art. Instead of having put all these capable members of the Ministry who work as conservators or work in the nipples to produce unstoppable copies and send them to the four ends of the horizon, and from there to enjoy revenue for the state, but also the recognition of all the peoples of the earth that here we really have the perpetrators, the guardians of this long-lasting Greek civilization, we are sitting here and dealing with issues that are of different competence. I will also confess to you something: When I took over, I realized that something is going on in the EBRD with the expropriations. And because, as a lawman, I also had the possibility of being suspicious of some things, I had given a mandate not to disburse money for expropriations. Suddenly, I was informed that over 10 million of the expropriations must have been given to this government. Has anyone dealt with the possibility, after two, three years - someone else with your style, with the depth of yours and, above all, with the interest and zeal you have - through it pulling up various ghosts or different subjects, who have actually committed crimes? I'm sorry to say that. And I went through that particular ministry and saw that it really wasn't all right. And the co-operation I had with the state-owned people - as one of the SYRIZA speakers, trade unionists, told me - was a smooth collaboration from which I was able to solve problems for the Ministry. Because I understood that I could not reform trade unionism on such bases and up to that point, which is acceptable, at least for my own ideology. I did agree with some things, but I didn't want it. I do, in fact, congratulate you for not compromised what you think is the principle or aid to justice for uncovering crimes. Is it possible, however, in this House, when we talk about the problems of the Ministry of Culture, to make this a dominant issue, even though what has been done so far has been proved? I have heard and seen that it was filed, for example, by a press report against the Cultural Association entitled 'Glaukopis Athena'. I also saw from the General Accounting Office that there is a management audit - the audit has also been carried out - which says that there is no money missing. This does not mean that, of course, everything is a pretext for justice. I do, however, respond with good faith, because I do not think that these problems should be solved here when the procedures are going on. Now I will tell you something else: within, Minister, from the provision of Article 5, there is something that in future can cost you a number of words. I do not believe, of course, that you have anything - but nothing - to do with it, at least that you want to regulate. It says, therefore, Article 5 that the Solidarity Fund is being subsidised from the amount that goes to the State budget from the revenues of the EDF, on the basis of the hypothesis in the case of paragraph 1 of Article 10 of Law No 736/77, where from this money you will get to finance the children's station, when this money from Article 10, which I mentioned, is limited solely to satisfying operational needs or in financing actions, activities and projects in the cultural heritage sector. Integrate today as a unit, as a cell, as a part, the children's station at the Administrative Support Department. So how do you get money? What is that collective body run by the Fund and will come, when there is such a limitation on expenditure, to say 'I will give money here for the kindergarten' when it does not have the right to finance it? So if, after a year of such financing, someone comes here and makes a message to the prosecutor, it is certain that the prosecutor will be active and possibly prosecuted for infidelity to the members of the Haitian Council of the EDF. So you realise that, due to the relative importance of these issues, it is important to promote relations between the world of the real world and the world of the present with clearer thoughts and perceptions of the role that politics must play in society. I believe that, since we are talking about culture, this very possibility is, through culture, to heal all the stricken areas of society, even if they have been subjected to the temptation of total thoughts and perceptions, like the ones we have heard before I come to Stepma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u146	By personal means, I find that the Greek Parliament has first made a nominal reference. No one, ever, had reported by name to anyone in Parliament's Chamber and happened today for the first time. What can we do? This happened to me. But let's not keep going now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I am not going to talk personally. But because he made a report...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u148	It wasn't personal. Mr. Javarras said his views. We heard them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, I am not going to talk personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u150	Let him go. I want him to say everything he has in his soul. It can do him good, really. I tell you: The reason for this is a healing function for those who have a mental problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Javarra, may I ask you something? What Rule of the Rules of Procedure speaks of the Member's soul?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I have a turn to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Heliopoulou, there's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u154	I ask why, because for seven minutes he was reported against me, without saying my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u155	Okay, that's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u156	Just give me the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u157	That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u158	You're judging the odds yourself. Aren't they personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u159	Do you take it as a personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u160	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, may I answer why he referred to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u162	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Javarras, obviously, was taken away from his legal capacity and became a self-determination defender of a pediatrician. The morality of the New Democracy - because it referred to our morality - is well known. He's voted for cohabitation. He's voted for children's adoptions by homosexual couples. We have to talk about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u164	Now what is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u165	I'm telling you, so the Greek people know. He has voted for a gender change in seventeen years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u166	Is that personal now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u167	Wait a minute. I'm on my way to staff. It has therefore referred to us and says that we are raped by democracy. He says I'm the one who rapes democracy. I'm not in a hurry for democracy. Democracy is being raped by those who rape minor boys. He said about mental anomalies. We're returning it to him because he wants to defend these people. He said respect for the right of innocence. Yesterday, there was a court of law. Convicted. The only ones who have no right to the presumption of innocence are Golden Eggs. I'm on my way. In a minute, I'm done. They tell us that in democracy we cannot have a step and express our views. And that's what they've done. We don't have a step. That's why I asked for the floor. Only here we can talk. If you want, you can turn us off the microphones here. It's okay. You have hung up on us everywhere: From the ERT, we pay, to the channels, which pimps have taken the frequencies of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, what is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u169	Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u170	He says we're disgusting him with what we're talking about. To see what disgusting you have caused us by your actions that have raped Greece for forty-five years. You rape her every day with your policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u171	Mr. President, what is this? Is that a political proclamation? Is the fascist going to talk about Greece? Turn off the microphones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u172	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, some things have to be said here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Comrade, you don't have any more time. Don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u175	Golden Dawn believes in "father, religion, family". Nothing else. It's over and over. That's our morality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u176	The negator, the Hitleropsy will teach us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Vaki, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students, and two educational sessions from the "GENNADENIKIOU" High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not used to talking to the republic's negligents, nor to respond to the omissions which really infect Parliament's space. But I have one answer this time. A former New Democracy MEP was convicted, by Greek Justice, and, if you like, this is also a revenge of morality towards the moralists of the "father - religion - family". However, there is a well-known saying, "immortality, guilty who is persecuting." The enemies of the Republic, the negligents of the Republic, the representatives of fascism, the ideological descendants of Nazism, the suspected for much heavier crimes, the murder of Paul Bryssa, Luke...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u179	You are violating the presumption of innocence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u180	...you who are stabbing immigrants, the preachers of hatred, racism...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u181	You voted for this right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u182	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u183	...you, who are pre-collecting MPs of the Greek Parliament, the ultra-patriots of the junta, the Greek, who became the Trojan Horse of Cyprus...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u184	It's slander.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u185	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u186	...and hand over patriotism lessons in here. You have no right to speak and to be miserable in this Chamber. Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u187	All right, go to 3%!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u188	And you're expecting heavier convictions!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u189	Do you prejudge something? Do you prejudge the court's decision? You are violating the presumption of innocence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u190	Please! Carry on, Mrs. Vakis. On the subject now, Mrs. Vaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u191	Justice decides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u192	You're violating the presumption of innocence. You'll be responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u193	Mrs Vaki, move on to the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u194	I'm going to go to the bill. So, the bill we are discussing today, which we are discussing today, strangely does not deal with the big and glorious issues of our heavy industry, which is culture, to recite the well-known phrase of the late Melina Mercouris. On the contrary, it is a bill that plays a role in self-clearing and reconciling, treating, if you like, the administrative function of the Ministry itself. It is a bill of small and humble, as our rapporteur, Mr Baltas, who is trying to illuminate shadows and dark spots, to clear stains that bolted every sense of good public money management against damage, not only of culture, but of society, with the ultimate aim of refining, functioning and transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, the notorious Solidarity Fund, an euphemism, which covered diligent relations between the two sides of industry and a deep state trade union, which began in 1995 and was re-established in 2002, was essentially acting as a NGOs or an offshore of the Ministry, which received generous funding from the Ministry, to manage it as it wants, without any institutional security and accountability. The vast sum of forty-one pages for 2005-2016 and autumn 2017, which resulted in the management audit, carried out by the Ministry of Finance's audit services, who thoroughly examined the way of administration and the financial data, was a catapult. A bleeding of the Archaeological Resources and Appropriations Fund and, of course, customer and collective practices. As our rapporteur for co-existence, who has managed this issue as a Minister for Culture, has certainly not been a Solidarity Fund, but a fund for the mutual service of the 'one', with recruitment, which did not aim to provide services to one another, but to offices of ministers and state-owned trade unions. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is intended not only to control the past, but above all to a change in management and administration, with a view to transparency. The bill stops funding the Solidarity Fund from the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund and now the social benefits managed by the Solidarity Fund, with the benefit of the Ministry's officials, go to his office. A child station is being set up, which is part of the Ministry's Agency, which will manage the allowance for children's camps. In addition, the jobs of officials are secured and transferred to the Ministry of Culture in order to remove a transparent and controversial employment status, which was paralyzed between private and public. I would like to go to another topic and to highlight an important chapter in our cultural stock that is curing this bill concerning Delos. Delos, a sign of our ancient Greek cultural heritage, was in danger of not operating as a visiting place, because for a number of months there was not a single person there. The bill therefore sets out incentives for Delos to be able to operate as a visiting site throughout the months of the year. In the same spirit, incentives are provided for in Article 9, which provides for an increase in the limit of moving off the ground, which concerns archaeologists who work on the islands and in the absence of adequate maritime connections, and are forced to move from one island to another via Athens, at the cost of economic and sometimes unbearable. Finally, the bill cures another paradox that it hears in the name of the Acropolis Museum Creation Organization. The ten years of operation, which is allotted to the Acropolis Museum, make not only the Acropolis Museum superfluous, but also a contradiction in terms. The self-evident abolition, however, of the Creation Organization urgently posed the question of what is to be done with the workers. The bill, taking account of the workers' offer and the hostage status, in which it condemned a peculiar situation, carries these officials to the Acropolis Museum. Ladies and gentlemen, the criticism, which has been heard by colleagues from the opposition, refers to the fragmentation of provisions. I believe that this is not a summing-up of heterosexual provisions, but a brave - even though it has been slow - movement against a mechanism of interoperable and corruption under the blessings of the then law and state. Because, in this "fantastic" creation of the Solidarity Fund, public money has entered several million from the Archaeological Resources Fund since 2002, without accounting for any of the public accounting mechanisms. The money was managed by the administration of the Fund, which was controlled by the well-known trade unions, PASK and IASK. So this small bill is, in my opinion, a headline for a model of good administration and public money management, with institutional safeguards, so that mutual assistance, as a euphemism of overlapping and cough, does not recur and does not degenerate public administration into corruption and the promotion of private interests. And not because we are the beneficiaries of moral advantage, or we are perpetrated by moral obsession, by bumping the sword of cleansing, but because we all have to understand that the fight against corruption is primarily a battle to defend democracy, since democracy, among other things, means removing inequality, a fair distribution of wealth, but also the lifting of its illegal accumulation. And it is not an imminent 'democracy' carved in neoliberal wrapping. If there is a big bet that the present government has to win, it is to produce such policies that will serve the public interest and shape the terms of a society that will be morally motivated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, too. Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly stressed in this Chamber and in the relevant committees the need for effective consultation and dialogue on issues relating to education, health, culture and sport. We have proved in practice, with our positions and proposals, as a Democratic Incorporation, the need for wider consensus on issues, particularly concerning education and culture, on issues relating to our history, on issues relating to our present country, the future of our children. However, your best practice, the government, is all by way of summary procedures. And, indeed, we see it going on. And it continues, unfortunately, in a politically charged climate, with a series of legislative initiatives of a purely electoral nature. To the vote, I'd say. We state clearly that we support, in all ways and in all tonnes, the right to work, to safety, to dignity, to the daily lives of workers in the Ministry of Culture. You, Minister, are coming to the 'Other One' - I would say - to regulate issues relating to 2015 which have been raised to you by the Panhellenic Federation of Workers of the Ministry of Culture. Minister, in this bill you regulate the establishment of the Children's Station in the Ministry of Culture, the Solidarity Fund, the abolition of the Acropolis Museum Ascending Agency, and its absorption from the New Acropolis Museum and staff issues - I would say - which concern staff. In other words, we are talking about a small bill, which is a puzzle of regulations and arrangements. Besides, among others, it regulates the remuneration of directors at the State Orchestra of Athens and the State Orchestra of Thessaloniki. However, as always, in your favorite tactics, there should also be a dark background from the past, which, of course, only you can bring to the surface. Gentlemen of the government, the presumption of innocence politically has lost it some time ago. I fear that you are in danger of losing the presumption of your previous life, with the translations and so-called bridges that you are setting up with faces and not with politicians, bridges with faces that have been raving you, bridges with faces that have been deported to you, bridges with those who have been told to you by atrocities. Let me remind you that those who described you as "a government of fraud", "government of authors", today you rewarded them and gave them a ministerial court. Good for you! Hold them! We don't need them! We're giving them! And I remember the saying of my philosopher, Mrs Geraniou, for such actions: "They have been rejected" - he said - "it is being "refuted, with many praises, and they have become an example of the humiliated" or deported as it suits you. What does all this mean? That there's a background. That's what it looks like. The conclusions, yours. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe in the great centre-left, the centre-left of values, the centre-left of ethos, dignity, equality, a centre-left built by political and programming convergences and commitments. Gentlemen, no one holds us. I have said so many times, and our President has said so in this Chamber, I repeat it once again: All in the light! Bring them all to the House. Everything in justice. No more mud. No more mud in the fan and mud. That's it. The moral advantage of the Left is not SYRIZA's inherited right. It is a timely structure of attitudes, actions and political divisions. It belongs to all of us's struggles for democracy. It is a worthy policy, a attitude honored by the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, the founder of Andreas Papandreou, and his thousands of names and anonymous executives, who, over time, gave the struggles with ideological stability, consistently, with honesty, morality, with dignity. It's just that we can't share a certificate of irresponsibility. These, ladies and gentlemen, are not being awarded. They gain in the consciences of the democracies. Different bridges, derelict initiatives, I would say, of society. Gentlemen, that's not how bridges are built. Let's get this straight. We're no one's spoil or a very fertile bride as a board of salvation. Those planning these scenarios are wrongly mistaken. PASOK, the Change Movement, is not a sum of persons. It is a multiplier of ideas, initiatives, actions and proposals for the great Central Left in Greece and social democracy in Europe. The great gatherings in Thessaloniki, Drama, Volos, Carditsa, Serres, Agrinio, Athens are the beginning. You're staying in managers' meetings. We dare open events. We come, because the people will reward those who held the country up in 2009-2011, when you and the New Democracy were found to be anti-immemorial voices in the Constitution. Because we are giving solutions to the problems of society with our "Project Greece". Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the President of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Workers of the Ministry of Culture has told you, this draft law has been delayed for four years. Our position is clear. We want permanent organic positions for all existing personnel. The same is true of the staff in the Solidarity Fund. In the Agency's 2014 and 2018 establishment plan, there are empty organic positions provided for. Minister, the Solidarity Fund was created to serve the workers at the Ministry of Culture, a form of cooperation and control together, the trade union movement and officials of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. In no case, however, was it created to be a tool in the hands of the political leadership in question. Based on what the bill provides, the Solidarity Fund is moving into a body of exclusive opt-out of the Minister of Culture. This is also apparent from the fact that the Minister for Culture will in fact have the exclusive right to determine the actions, but also the amount of funding for the Fund. In this way, I would say, the Minister for Culture creates another body, one that will remain outside the general government. We are opposed to this, because we are opposed to this perspective, a prospect whereby the Solidarity Fund will only be in name and will ultimately belong to the workers. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it will be a clear body of political leadership, of the political leadership in question. This fund will have nothing to do with the fund that was a conquest for the workers. In other words, a fund, in fact, is being set up, which in spite of transparency and sound management of public money, is serving. I mention, for the record, what has happened to the Solidarity Fund since, for the first time since its establishment, the administration has been unilaterally designated by the political leadership? November 2017: Political leadership led the Fund to economic suffocation, did not pay for more than a year the approved funding from the SSP. This resulted in the exhaustion of its reserve. He appointed administration for the first time to the Fund, where the president and both members were purely governmental. In this way, Minister, you have shown in practice the perception of the functioning of the state. The current governors of the Fund, after the occupation of the offices in which the Federation of officials of the Ministry of Culture had carried out, continue today with the workers. The complaint about a classified three-year protocol book by the director of the fund became known to us. It is part of a broader project of assumption - I would say - of clearance. The testimonies of the Fund officials show that things are not the case, of course. In any case, the case is already in the hands of the prosecutor for corruption and the general public administration inspector. We are, of course, waiting for their findings. We have made it clear, Minister, from the outset that we are in favour of transparency and respect for the decisions of justice. We therefore state in every direction that, if anything turns out for anyone, we will ask for his exemplary punishment. We will, however, be against every attempt by the government to build guilty men, to smash the price and reputation of workers, without data, just to serve its micropolitical designs. The General Accounting Office of the State confirms our claims. I repeat: no covert to anyone. Public money is sacred. We are also awaiting the conclusion of the feasibility check, which is under way, for the New Acropolis Museum and the training of the OANMA. The government of SYRIZA smacks open doors with more than four years behind. The workers at the New Acropolis Museum would have been placed in personal positions since 2015. Their transfer was provided for in a bill, which had been promoted to the vote since November 2014. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, was not passed as, as we know, under the responsibility of the present government, the country was led to elections. Finally, it would be interesting to answer from the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture the following question: why did the workers working in the New Acropolis Museum not get settled in 2018 when the government, while the government had a prepared bill, get it back? And one question arises: Who, and why, then, have prevented workers from being able to take care of themselves? As far as the workers on Delos island are concerned, I would like to say that they need a real reward and not a tip, which, after taxes and reservations, is actually evaporated. We insist on our position that the specific workers who work and reside permanently in Delos island should be paid a 50% allowance for the extension of their contracts of employment at the Hellenic Festival S.A... Our position is to fill all organic positions with permanent staff, which will, of course, be chosen through the ASEP competition. We therefore consider the extension of contracts to be a battalion and nothing more, which does not in essence help neither the work of the Greek Festival nor the workers. We are therefore calling for permanent jobs to be announced immediately, with increased molecularisation of those working in the contractor. Ladies and gentlemen, our special rapporteur, Mrs Kefalidou, will also be placed on the articles. In conclusion, we consider the amendments from the Ministry of National Defence to be positive and we vote for them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I would like the floor to present a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u199	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u200	Let me inform the House that there is a legislative improvement in Article 19 of the draft law. It is the amendment which the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs had tabled yesterday to the committee. The seven board of directors will have five (5) members from the Athens Academy of Positive Sciences and two (2) from plenary for five (5) years, with the possibility of re-election. Basically, this is regulated. I am tabling the relevant legislative improvement on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Hadjisavvas has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, I am very pleased to see that, with what all the parties in this House have said, a front - supposedly - against the Golden Dawn and that the Greek people understand who is the defender of the Greek people, who is against the whole system of political parties, who together vote for memorials, who are against different laws, who are unpopular and who will recognize in the next elections which party actually represents him. I am also pleased to see their real faces, however, by the guardians - supposedly - of political correctness with misgivings, with a hybrid, with sexist comments, but also ridiculous suggestions of psychotherapy. With regard to the presumption of innocence: New Democracy will do well not to speak of a presumption of innocence, when on their day and on their government, on their own order, Members of the Greek Parliament were imprisoned in active employment, the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group and its Chief, before even lifting immunity. So they will do well in the presumption of innocence, at the hanged man’s house not to talk about rope. As far as today's bill is concerned, there are some issues that really needed to be dealt with, some issues that some people have been dealing with and which, for years, have waited for them to be settled. However, to what extent this conspiracy of bills in the same committee? Ten years has ended the building of the Acropolis Museum and waited for the organization to be abolished. Suddenly, this bill comes in, at this time in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and the President says we should just hurry to make it. What can you do to prevent? Is your time running out? Are we going to elections in May? By October, do you not have time to get two or three bills to come to the same committee in the same week? In an amendment tabled by the Minister, I would like to make a comment. It concerns the amendment, with a general number 1983 and a special number 38, which regulates matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection, amended and supplemented by specific provisions of Law 3879/2010 on matters of Lifelong Learning. The proposed amendment adds the Security Research Centre, which is part of the Ministry of Civil Protection, to the national network of Lifelong Learning that operates and provides lifelong learning services. The remark and question concerns the reason why the proposed legislation is being introduced. Who, then, can be the reason why, a body of the Ministry of Civil Protection, namely the Greek Police, the Security Bodies in general, an institution with a scientific and cognitive research subject of a purely police nature, is added to an educational system - basically - which is a public system? The Greek Police cannot use its cognitive basis, not in the direction of combating crime and protecting the Greek people, but in the training and certification of individuals. That's unauthorized. At the same time, when Parliament deals with several such procedural issues, which should have been resolved years ago, in Crete we had in a month two tragic events, where a family and a farmer drowned with the waterache. May we, in 2019, have any river, torrential and rampage crossings without a bridge? You may, of course, say it's risky to go through there and you should be careful. The criticism from our house and the calmness of the sofa is easy. But when the other sees his property lost, through which he feeds his seven - member family and is his family’s future, he cannot think so logically and operates at that time in panic. It is, of course, a fact that the lack of education for Greek citizens in dealing with such phenomena is also a fact. There should be education from the schools, even the competent authorities should see to it that people are protected or that they are safer to read. But what about the National Bridge Register? On 26-11-2018, I tabled a question on the occasion of the collapse of the bridge in Kavala, where we fortunately did not have dead. We were then asking the relevant Minister if it was intended to establish a National Bridge Register and whether it would be possible for this service - without a multitude of services - to do its job. We don't know what's going on with the National Bridge Register. However, it is unacceptable and unacceptable that we do not know how many bridges there are on Greek territory, when these bridges were built, what use these bridges have been made, and what state they are in terms of maintenance. The malicious arts are data. However, the complaints about the mistreats, which are probably due to the fact that a contractor put some money into his pocket and did not do the work as he should, are empty content if no one is punished and no one is put in jail. It is also very disgraceful for the inhabitants of the regions to hear that the problem has to be solved in the run-up to a tourist season. So, we only care about tourists? The life of the Greek people in the region doesn't count as much as the tourists coming? Just our image, do we care? Today, then, the government's friend Erdogan makes a large, bilingual dimensional and image exercise under the name 'Blue Country' with the Turkish navy and has committed a specific energy plot - it is not accidental - as a field of firing. At the same time, Piat says relations between Greece and Turkey have been at the best stage in the last decades. After all, it is not a secret that the Turkish exercise is now taking place within the naval frameworks. They don't do it on their own. They don't do it on their own protocol. They have NATO coverage that is supposed to be an ally of Greece. Turkey also belongs to NATO. But all this shows that you probably have agreed to co-manage the Aegean and slowly and gradually - step by step - you are leading the situation there. Erdogan dares, your friend, who you legalized him when he came to Greece, to say, too, that they previously flew to the sea gangs of Pontius. It is obviously about the polar genocide and the slaughter of hundreds of thousands of women and children with the backs of the communist then Russia. But because the culture and culture of Pontian Hellenism will take thousands of years of evolution to reach the Turks, they must say at least thank you for helping them by barbaric Mongols to now be the civilised people, as much as possible for the Turks. But speaking of NATO, our allies, and the United States of America, which are also our allies, we have the well-known BBC article from a suspicious author. It's a suspect in the world in general. If you're looking for a little bit to see who this columnist is, he's got NGO photos. More generally, it belongs to this system yours, the Syrian. It's your kid. So he wrote an article before the Ambassadors' Agreement, but was posted at the BBC after the Ambassadors' deal. What's this article doing? It confirms the fears that we as Golden Dawn had for the aftermath of the agreement. Propaganda tools are also the specific journalist and BBC of the same forces who managed to bomb Serbia and the birth of Kosovo, namely the United States of America, the European Union and NATO. They're the ones that get used to these alpha-trophics. SYRIZA, who has been trying to enlarge the European Union and NATO lately, other than saying that what the article says does not apply and send a lukewarm protest from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the BBC, will NATO report on these methods for our Macedonia? Is the New Democracy going to denounce NATO's methods? Will it denounce the European groups to which it belongs, which serve the same interests that subsidise this altruism? What kind of pervertalism? Okay, we don't say and no one believes that Skopje's non-existent military motif can perform such a role, nor of course can anyone believe that the Uranium Arc can achieve something. NATO's manipulations, however, want there to be a relief position in Greece and ask for Greek citizens' minority rights. So we're going to the next stage. They are not the Macedonians who demand minority rights, they are Greek citizens who define themselves as national Macedonians and raise the question of being a minority and they must recognise its rights. This also fits with the national Macedonians - citizens of Northern Macedonia. You've given them this right since he's been a Macedonian nation. Of course, we are confusing parrots, the agents and agents circulating in Greece, the reference to Macedonian, which is a geographical linguistic designation, and Macedonian - as they say - that is a national language designation and, of course, there is no. And you think that the Greeks, the only and genuine Macedonians, will allow these methods to pass through, that the Uranium-toxins will establish clubs to create stones within Greece. In every legal way laid down by the articles of the Constitution, we will stop these manipulations, as we have done so far. But all you care about is your political survival. SYRIZA tries to manage defeat as best it can and the New Democracy is trying to manage the victory for which it is not ready and makes it impossible not to get self-reliance. The PASOK - KINAL, the Potami, the Central Association and the ANELs complain everywhere and weep on the channels all day that they go for dissolution. PASOK denounces SYRIZA that it makes the "Bridge" to dismantle them, of course, recognizing that it is not a bridge, but is a precursor to the final attack and dismantle PASOK, which no longer exists in Greek society. He had spoken on one side of the New Democracy boat to jump the PASOK executives there, he is now approaching, and the SYRIZA boat on the other hand, and after the next elections it will be dissolved. It's for granted. If all of you who cry that you are facing system persecution and attack for the dissolution of your parties accepts even 1% of the persecution suffered by the nationalist People's League - Golden Dawn movement, your parties would have been broken up and you could not have a day longer political future. We've had elections from prison, and we've won. We're running off funding. We've suffered a total suffocation by the media. And in order to get through to lighter issues, not social media profiles are not entitled to have the Golden Dawn MPs, not the voice in the media. In the next European elections, therefore, the great fear and reality which will happen when the next European elections are to take place is that nationalism will become a second force in Europe. Nationalists and Eurosceptics will take second place. And you, completely undisturbed of social reality, are making it as an argument for citizens not to vote for nationalist parties that if a second force is nationalist Europe, there will be a difficulty in taking decisions in the European Union. And you're saying that's bad? The European Union decides in favour of banks and loan-formers. For this reason, whatever drunkenness and thought against us, you fight for personal interests, but we have faith in the fight and we will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u203	The State Secretary for the Army has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. The bill discussed in the Committee on Morphic Affairs in the past few days and we are discussing today in the plenary session of the National Representation is made up of three parts. The first part relates to the Solidarity Fund for Officials of the Ministry of Culture, the second part of the Acropolis Museum, the third part contains a number of provisions regulating the issues of the Ministry of Culture and its supervised bodies, as well as the amendments that have been added below. To address the issue of the Solidarity Fund has been a painful effort. The Ministry of Culture has been called upon from the outset to face a distorting perception, based on the trade union leaders and part of the workers, with some social benefits of the Ministry. Personally, I consider the position of the former Minister, Mr Javara, to be revelation. I am praised for his position, as he has shown that, in order to get here today, he has been bold. We remember that last year, when we took office, there were occupations, great tensions and accumulated problems. We worked with determination and methodicity at all levels. We restored calm and regularity in the daily life of the Ministry. We have set the real stakes, which are clear relations between political leadership, unions and workers. We have explained that revenue from the archaeological sites, monuments and museums is not on a special account of the Ministry, as they had previously been used, it is not a wallet of politicians or trade union leaders, it is public money that must be managed in transparency and accountability. Staying away from Scandalology we went into the dark past with the case now being investigated by justice. What's the point of the case? The Ministry of Culture has a small budget, but at the same time manages revenues from cultural heritage. Previously, there was the infamous special account of the Ministry. By 2008 the amounts received from the Solidarity Fund were from these two sources: from the special account and from the revenue of the archaeological sites, monuments and museums. After the dismantling of the special account with the Zahopoulou case, the gap was supplemented by a spectacular increase in the percentage received by the fund from the revenues of the cultural heritage. Thus, the Archaeological Resources Fund, which collects this revenue and a percentage of it was assigned to the Solidarity Fund, was converted into a kind of informal special account. In 2009, an election year for the last Minister of Culture of the Government of New Democracy, a party leader and Prime Minister, was given the Solidarity Fund over 3,000,000 euros from the cultural heritage revenues. The results of the management audit of the General Accounting Office of the State and the minimum data found in the Fund following the end of the occupation show that tens of millions of people have been uncontrolled between the Solidarity Fund and trade unions in knowledge and sometimes in consultation, as indicated in the documents, with political leaderships. Three and a half million is the amount that the General Accounting Office asks to return from previous administrations. At the same time, complaints are being investigated by more than a hundred officials of the Ministry that the fund appears to have granted them loans and aids, which they declare in writing that they have never applied for and never received. We have, from the outset, applied a new example of operation in relation to the past. We did not hire staff to the offices of political leadership through the Solidarity Fund. We did not pay over-employ ments and allowances and did not provide loans and assistance to our political offices' staff. We did not order a million euros from the Solidarity Fund to be granted to the Federation of Workers for the payment of overemployment. We did not pay established late payments through the Solidarity Fund. All of this, typical samples of a government that on a larger scale bankrupt the country, have happened in the past. They are clearly recorded in the findings on which the opposition only has to comment is that no cash deficits arise, adopting this lame argument of the Fund's audited administrations. We spectacularly reduced the cost of the fund twice and three times down. We have applied to the choice of children at the child station the criteria and mobilisation of public children's stations, replacing a completely unclear and perforated procedure that has been followed in the past. We have designed and brought to the vote this draft law, which has the objectives of itself, perhaps, but with great political weight and many technical difficulties, to address the malfunctions and diseases of old age, to ensure transparency and good administration for the future, at the same time to ensure the proper functioning of the current transitional phase, a process of construction at the sea, as we have explained to the committees, that special care is taken to maintain social benefits to the employees of the Ministry and, finally, to ensure the jobs and workers of the fund. The children's station and camping allowance that had been used as an alibi for mismanagement, but also as a lever of pressure against any resolution effort that had been made in the past, are transferred to the structures of the Ministry's Directorate General of Administrative, which itself undertakes to cover the relevant costs. The former Minister of Culture, today Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has wondered why we are setting up a kindergarten, since there is one. The child station there is a club's private junior station. We set up a public child service in the Ministry of Culture, and it was something that we had to find out that we had to do it technically, so that we could move forward. As regards the question on the part of the rapporteur of the Communist Party, yes, we are investigating and requesting information on what the real needs are for officials from the Ministry of Culture throughout Greece who are not covered by social structures, i.e. public schools, or who do not receive a voucher for children and if there is a real need we will also move in this direction. At the same time, workers are placed in personal positions of the Ministry of Culture, fully guaranteeing their work. As far as the condition of waiving the economic requirement is concerned, first of all, a term quite common to changes in contracts, and here we do not forget that we have a transfer of staff from a club to the central government, that is, to the state. For the substance of the case, the current financial requirement would undermine, if accepted, the very objective of the bill, which is to ensure jobs. Workers claim the thirteenth and fourteenth wages, but from the time the work of so many years was recognized and converted into civil servants, the State could not grant this to them. Finally, the Solidarity Fund ceases to be financed by the Archaeological Resources Fund. It will now be financed by the Ministry's Directorate-General for Finance under the rules of public accounting and the control of the General Accounting Office of the State, in accordance with strict conditions to be laid down by a ministerial decision and, of course, the amount will be much smaller, since there will be no payrolls, no children's station, no campsite. An issue was raised by Mr Javarra, whether there would be legality in this procedure. It is quite legitimate that the procedure we have anticipated is completely legal. The Archaeological Resources Fund transfers a total amount to the Ministry. This amount has increased spectacularly in relation to the past. It was 7,000,000 euros in 2014. Already EUR 45,000 have been disbursed for 2019 and another EUR 10,000,000 to 15,000 euros are next. There is therefore room for social policy to be made with this money and we are doing so by law. So that will be a legitimate process. It will have nothing to do with the Management Board of the Archaeological Resources Fund in managing this amount. This amount is transferred to the Ministry and the Ministry's Directorate-General for Finance is allocated to the various appropriations, based on the services of the Ministry. Our position on the future of the Solidarity Fund is clear, that this fund should be made a case of workers with a general assembly electing and controlling the administration without any interference from political leadership and that it should be genuinely mutual, with the employees' contributions. We have had the courage to say this from day one to day to day to the workers who had those inspired views, which we referred to at the outset. In such a fund, the Ministry could fund selected social and cultural actions. However, if we do not find a response here, on the part of the workers, we will not hesitate to bring the fund to a solution and liquidation, but in any case ensuring the smooth development of the work of justice that is under way. Passing the Acropolis Museum, we resolve the paradox of the continued existence of an organization ten years after the completion of its purpose in the right and simple way, which is its absorption from the museum itself. Again, there is a guarantee for jobs and workers and the reason why the relevant regulation by the government, which had seen this issue from the outset, had to be found that a solution had to be found to avoid an artificial increase in costs in the establishment plan of the Acropolis Museum, that is to say, no increase in staff. With the commitment of the positions, a solution that has been technically worked out with the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, we are therefore able here to bring this regulation in order to deal with this issue as well. We recall that, in addition to the regulation, the Ministry of Culture has agreed with the management of the museum, on the one hand to update the pricing policy, according to the example that we successfully apply the other archaeological sites and museums since 2016, and on the other hand, the Acropolis Museum will now be involved with part of its revenues in the upgrading of the remaining museums of the Ministry of Culture. So we do not just have a fragmentary arrangement in relation to the Creation Organisation, but we have a more comprehensive strategy that we are starting to implement. Of the other provisions of the bill, I would like to refer to the allowance for the permanent officials of the Ministry on Delos island. We have explained that for the other border regions of the country there is an incentive. Small, large or medium ones, though. Delos is a special case, it's a unique case. We called it "exile" and especially in winter, because if you're excluded there a month or two, it's not an easy situation. So we take advantage of the margins that we have and introduce this special allowance, precisely to attract officials from the Ministry who will spend at least one year on the island, so to meet the winter needs. As far as the plan for the preservation of archaeological sites is concerned, we have also referred to the committees. The Ministry of Culture has already announced two permanent positions of archaeological guards, which are mainly directed towards the islands, but also to large museums and archaeological sites. We are expecting the completion of the tender from ASAP in the next few months or two. In the meantime, we had greatly improved the recruitment procedures for temporary staff for both winter and summer. As we said yesterday in committee, and a thousand fifty-five contracts ended in December, three hundred new recruitments came and no one understood anything. That was a success. Because, if you remember, in previous years there have been constant turbulence around the issue. In addition, in cooperation with the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, we plan a thousand new recruitments in the next three years for the Ministry of Culture, part of which will also be directed towards the operation of archaeological sites, monuments and museums. I would also like to make a brief reference to the care we are showing for the islands, the islands, and also the inhabitants of the islands, for islanders, because now, by increasing the days off the ground that they can do services on the islands, it means that they will be dealt with more quickly and better in terms of citizens' affairs. We are particularly pleased that the draft law, at least in terms of its objectives, has a wider positive acceptance by Members and not just by those who support the governmental majority. The criticism we have received has been because we are doing nothing but repeat regulations that had already been presented in 2014. We explained in detail to the Committee that the Ministry's Agency in 2014 had three lines for a general care and safety department, which was also included in the medical office. Obviously, it was just a reference to an organization plan. He didn't mention anything about the staff. He didn't mention anything about campsite. As regards the administration of the Solidarity Fund itself, we recalled that while the three-year term of office expired in February 2015, there was a rush to reposition in October 2014, starting from this beginning this three-year term and provided that since this administration did not agree, it could not change. The conclusions of yours. In 2014, the draft law presented in 2014 was essentially a rename of the Reconstructing Organisation to a completion and operation organisation. It maintained a completely transitional situation for workers with fixed-term contracts and there was a provision at some point in the future, when the 4/5 of organic positions were paid, to close without saying anything, but what is going to happen with existing workers. And, as we said yesterday, nothing but 'our own children' is, even though we are not characterizing them. They work, they make their bread with their work and sweat. They are not 'our children', however. The second party of criticism that has been heard by Anti-Policy is linked to disaster, which is widely spoken about both the economy and national issues. In 2014 the country lived a success story and then this evil SYRIZA, this bad government, brought the disaster! We have explained - to start from modern culture - the situation that we have received in modern culture. At the State Theatre of Northern Greece we received 10 million debts and 5,000 debts in the funds. The Athens Concert Hall received it by a private cultural body at the time, with the guarantee of the Greek public for pharaonic works that never worked. We managed to repay the debts with the sacrifices of the Greek people and the support of the Ministry of Finance and now these institutions, like the rest of the Ministry, produce great artistic work. We referred to the National Opera and the National Library, because everyone, when we talk about Stavros Niarchos Foundation Culture Centre, think about the shell, but the content is what counts and the content in the Centre for Culture puts it in public bodies, which are financed by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance to produce this project. We also referred to the National Museum of Contemporary Art in the first attempt to have a competition to fill the position of artistic director, an innovation that encountered difficulties. The aim is, however, very important and should be supported from all sides. I'll make a reference now to copyright. Let us remember that we were not the first to check on the Solidarity Fund. Basically, we were the first to control GDPI, a time-consuming scandal in the field of copyright that no one dared to touch. In his honor, the Minister, Nikos Xydakis, and then Aristides, Baltas, put it up on the agenda, proceeded with the checks, became the problem, then placed a commissioner to rescue the entire system for the collection and distribution of intellectual property, and then legislated the solution - bridge of the Special Enforcement Agency that will lead to the end of the day in a body that will be in the hands of the authors themselves. Now in the cultural heritage, I shall begin with the revenues of the archaeological countries. I have mentioned in the past that we received 55 million in 2014 and in 2018 it closed 115 million. So we have more than doubled, and we're pretty optimistic about the continuity. It was reported that this was the result of an increase in tickets. First of all, we don't have an increase in tickets. We have an increase and at the same time a reduction. Prior to this pricing policy that we have implemented at this time, the ticket was EUR 12. Right now, it's 10 euros. Five months, then, we have smaller prices than in the past. We did increase for the seven months of the tourist current and I will then explain why we did that. At the same time, we must not forget the rights of entry that already existed, and we maintained them and enriched them. No Greek and European citizen up to eighteen years old pays a ticket. Also, students don't pay a ticket. In addition, there are social charges that do not pay a ticket. And Aristides Baltas, then Minister of Culture, added the unemployed for the first time to social groups that do not pay a ticket. So we had a quite well thought out policy, which increased revenue, but also allowed free access to the archaeological sites, monuments and museums of the country for the Greek family. But it was not just an increase in revenue. I will repeat this because we have to understand that the changes should be supported by anyone else. We had to break eggs in the Acropolis. We also had to integrate security systems, management systems. As soon as we did it, we saw a spectacular increase. For the first time in September 2016, we saw September as the month with the largest receipts, even above July and August. So we didn't just have the price increase. We had found interventions throughout the ticket and management system. The revenues are therefore mainly derived from tourism. They become critical funding for the Ministry of Culture and its needs. Therefore, in response to the criticism that we have received from the representative of the Communist Party, we want to implement a public policy in favour of the public interest, which distributes surpluses from the large tourist attractions to build on public money and the Ministry itself, without asking for any extra money from the Greek taxpayer. Passing other issues of cultural heritage management, I must refer to the online ticket. Let me repeat once again that the country had an electronic ticket in 2015, an electronic ticket that did not work, which did not issue a ticket via the internet, which had no real control over it, a project through the sinner and the Greek Culture Promotion Agency, which cost 22 million euros and the maintenance of 500,000. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] You'll give me some time, Mr. President. So, for the first time, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation entered a common sponsorship scheme and required a lot of work. That's why the country has an electronic ticket. On the question, which was raised by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Kefaloniann, on his extension, we have announced - and this is what we are doing - three ways of extending the electronic ticket to the other archaeological sites, monuments and museums of the country from the Ministry's own services. Where we find cultural sponsorship on the same terms, we are obviously open and for the rest of Greece we have this strategic cooperation with the ED. In all these ways, the basic standard is that it will be an extension of the existing system of the ETS, so that we have a single system rather than emblematic solutions. The final receipt of the project that works is being completed these days and a number of secondary issues need to be resolved. As far as the service to the professionals of the area is concerned, we had to wait for the Ministry of Tourism, which precisely legislated which categories are regarded as professionals, who will be able to legally use the platform and have had a great deal of discussion with representatives, tourist operators. We have also been very busy simplifying procedures so that users can be served, whether they are tourist offices or tour guided. If you look at archaeological sites, vending machines have already been installed with a card in the Acropolis. We don't advertise that. We're going slow, but we're going on all the time. And special money depositing machines have been installed in the area where professionals are serving. In fact, we have entered a process that takes some time and may be abolishing the cash. There will be no contact by officials from the Ministry who come into contact with the tourist office for large amounts of cash. I'm gonna need to report to the sales offices in the archaeological sites. It is clear that the Opposition and the New Democracy and the Communist Party are not up to date. I'll start with the Communist Party. The day before yesterday, a meeting was held at the offices of social resources with my encouragement between the group that runs the cultural programme of the Archaeological Resources Fund and the Chamber of Justice and, as far as I have been informed, a framework has been agreed to bring this cooperation forward. As far as sales are concerned, we have already shown our new face at the National Archaeological Museum and at the Olympiacos Museum and at the Kanelopoulou Museum. I will comment on the fact that the Kanellopoulou Museum with its 2014 legislation was to be converted into a Legal Person of Private Law. We kept it a Legal Person of Public Law and made it a salesman. And, of course, we also have an orgasm of work in laboratories, which we now see in productive terms, that is to say, the OP itself to produce. That's a big target for us. Going to the refreshments, this is a little more difficult. I also referred to the committee in a debate that I had occasionally had last days with a former Minister of Culture, not our own government, who recognised supplementary contracts and judicial involvement and, indeed, cases where the operation is more problematic than non-operation. I think we will be meeting, Mrs Kefaliannis, tomorrow in Delphi, and with the responsibility for the refreshment which has taken two years to make a decision, which has also not been implemented for over a year and to discuss these problems and how we will be able to overcome them. However, I personally feel proud that I did not sign the extensions that were brought to us and in 2015 and 2016, as happened in previous ministers. Obviously, I was under great pressure and changed the frame. So we have a single framework. At the moment, a recovery programme is being drawn up, which will lead until the beginning of the summer to a ministerial decision and new competitive procedures and, yes, as a bridge solution until these competitive processes run, we will open up the refreshments and be judged by the quality and the people that we are going to install. The great aim, of course, of the Archaeological Resources Fund continues to be the establishment plan. I do not see that there has been a delay in this. Anyway, following the conclusion of the legislative procedure of the Solidarity Fund, we will present the draft establishment plan, which goes far beyond what has been discussed so far and we need to discuss this in depth to see how we are progressing, not just by repeating proposals from the past, but by bringing a real section. Because there was a report today on the expropriations, I'm gonna have to answer it. Let us say that, apart from the control it may have done - as I have said, I accept - Mr Javarras for the expropriations, we have also had the hit on the Archaeological Resources Fund by the PSI. The president of the Acropolis Museum learned that the Acropolis Museum was also hit by the PSI. The expropriations had not been paid for many years. So we found a large volume of expropriations. Under the provision of the law, which I have before me, the Minister who decides and declares expropriation or the authority which declares expropriation and which is liable to pay compensation, namely the Ministry of Culture, is able to extend the eighteen-month period, at the request of the citizen. It is for the citizen that this provision has been afflicted for many years and decades. We did not, however, just extend the eighteenth. We have put in place clear rules for the first time - perhaps it would be interesting if Mr Javarras were here to discuss them - and we put in a specific order from which the expropriations were paid. Therefore, we probably solved a problem with transparency and there is no scandal smell in this case. I should briefly refer to a history of cultural heritage issues. I will stay a little on the Thessaloniki metro because we have been asked to give an answer to the costs, timetable and delay caused by the maintenance of antiquities in situ. I contacted Thessaloniki Metro Command. I'm surprised to hear Mr. Mylopoulou, I have to say. The extra cost of maintaining these major antiquities is 20 million, in a one billion - billion - year - old project. Obviously, it is negligible if one takes into account the importance of the finding. As far as the real delay is concerned, we must take into account two elements. The first is that when the metro was installed in Thessaloniki, there were intense reactions from the archaeologists, from those who know, that is, who were later verified, saying: "Don't place the metro through there, it is full of ancient times". Did they hear? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u205	You don't have to be an archaeologist to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u206	I am referring to the institutions. This has also been done by the institutions. Well, they weren't heard. In 2011, before antiquities emerged in the metro of Thessaloniki, the timetable was already 100% overrun. The project schedule was 2006-2011. In 2011 the timetable before the ancients came out was for 2016. The ideas at this station that is the only one who will be delayed three years to surrender, in relation to the rest that are delivered at the end of 2020, are that between 2012 and 2012, until the solution of our own government to the maintenance of antiquities, nothing has happened. In other words, the delay came from the failure to resolve a problem by 2015. There was a report by the MPs on issues such as Amphipolis, Kos. I apologise, Mr Papoutsis, at that time I was out, there are also natural needs! Let me say I'm going to look at Sparta and contact you. I have to do it after my absence. Both in Amphipolis and Kos are complex, it's difficult. Let's remember that the restoration of the Aegisthenon Tower that was struck by the earthquake in Athens in 1981 was only completed last year. We're not saying it'll take us thirty years to build Amphipolis. To God! It simply needs very close attention both in the research phase and in the study phase. I'll have to say a word about the real estate, if it's put on the table today. Let me repeat once again that both the law and the decision of the Minister of Finance have incorporated the exception. Therefore, no monument or archaeological site was transferred. What has happened, as we have explained from the outset, was that there has been a road map to carry out an exemption identification check. This special map was followed in full. And yes, we have said, and there is this amendment, which will ensure that cultural heritage issues are dealt with in bilateral terms. At this stage we are in discussions with the Ministry of Finance about some final arrangements, so that it will just catch a wider range of monuments, archaeological sites and museums, the Ministry of Culture and the public. I will not go into the HIAD, which you have tried to saint, although I should have. Possibly, I'll do it through artwork. I respect that I've gone far beyond time and I won't do a second. I shall conclude by saying this: it is clear that our bill aims at transparency and good management. On this one can compare Mr Javarra's genuinely confessed, as before, inertia by the previous governments for the Solidarity Fund. But let us remember the case of GNI. And there we boldly went ahead and these results came about. We're leaning on problems, and we're solving them. It's a construction process at sea, as we said before. For us, the public nature of the management of cultural heritage is unrealistic, even if we are accused of being state-run. I should of course like to comment on the fact that there is an attempt to dilute the statements made by the Chief of Staff Response and 2014 and 2018, in an ambiguity of cooperation with the private sector, one to five in recruitment. But the proposals on insurance and health also make it clear what is essentially your hidden program for cultural heritage. Tall for us on the agenda is the institutional protection of cultural heritage, its coexistence with investment and development, and today we have reached the point where everyone speaks positively about limiting the construction of Athens, around the Acropolis. Even the candidate of the New Democracy for the Municipality of Athens. So that was neither self-evident nor easy. There was a conquest. My personal assessment is that there has been a conquest of the Left in the country, which in the crisis has dared to say that respect for and promotion of our cultural heritage is an essential prerequisite for us to be able to go forward and go to the next day. In conclusion, I would like to call on the Members of all the wings to support the bill, at least the basic provisions for the daycare station, for the workers and the Solidarity Fund and for the Acropolis Museum, for Delos, for the off-site and other arrangements. I think it was a good opportunity to launch a dialogue on culture, which we will be deepening in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u207	Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u208	Undersecretary, as a deeply conservative force, without any suggestion of the present and the future of culture, you are unleashing the past by creating convenient myths. But dragons are over, Mr. Army and myths collapse behind each other. Reality is stubborn and reminds you every day. Instead of going back on cheap populism in the past - because you deliberately falsify the conclusion of the management of the Solidarity Fund that has shown a zero cash deficit, as for loans, justice has been seized and we are not discussing them here, it is now exclusive jurisdiction of the judiciary - we ask you to apologise for the vile present, which has your signature and responsibility. As a government you have put your political stamp in closed refreshments and licensed sellers almost all over the territory. And, of course, it makes no impression that you insist on ignoring the findings of the public administration inspectors, mentioned in the period 2015-2017, during which you were a member of the board of directors and Mrs Aspalia Luvi was President. The finding mentions the huge haemorrhage of revenue that you caused in the state as a result of mismanagement during this period. I have tabled this in the Minutes, but I would like to read from this conclusion that in 2015-2017 the number of refreshments in operation has decreased significantly and the number of gaps has increased accordingly. In 2015-2016, active refreshments were thirty-five and forty-four gaps. In 2017, the current ones were twenty-four and the gaps were fifty-six. At the same time, refreshments located in archaeological sites with great traffic, remain closed for a long time, with a loss of substantial revenue and a consistent service to visitors. Examples: since 2015 blanks are the refreshments of the archaeological site and of the Museum of Olympia, the Olympiacos Museum in Athens, the Cape Thera, since 2016 are vacant posts of Lindos, the Asclipio in Kos, the Archaeological Museum of Thessaloniki, since 2017 are closed by the Heraklion Museum and Vergina. The same conclusion states that the EIF in the period 2016-2017 has announced four public auctions for renting refrigerants, which have been barren. These tenders do not show that there is a single strategy and the corresponding design for the recovery and rental of refreshments, so that the operator’s revenues are not guaranteed in a fragmentary manner and not sufficiently justified. The lack of long-term and comprehensive planning results from the different selection of refreshments in the tenders, the conversion of some refreshments into seasonal, the continuous modification of the terms of the notices, the non-decision-making and the lack of action to rent a large number of smaller vacant refreshments. We wonder if perhaps these barren competitions and the fact that you continue to be involved, without any interest in tabling the EBRD establishment plan, which is a priority for us and could upgrade the structures and functions of the Fund, still remains another unapplicable proclamation of yours. Finally, this is no accident at all, because it allows you to proceed with the direct assignments which you obviously so much like and are interested in, for what reasons. We will insist that until you bring the regulation to protect against the concession of ownership and property management of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which you were committed to bring a month ago and has not come, it is in the air your constitutional obligation to protect the cultural heritage. And I am going to comment on the amendment you tabled, Mr Secretary, for your ministry. We consider the practice to be unacceptable, with regard to last-minute amendments, because you appear to be extraordinary issues of the day-to-day operation of services. You knew them and obviously could form part of the draft law from the outset. You are trying to fill the gaps of your own failures and you should finally admit that the legislative work for your day is in decline. You are undermining the parliamentary procedure and not only the procedure here in the debate of the bills, but above all parliamentary control, because we have asked you for the findings of the auditors and the public prosecutors for the EDF, but we have never been given to us by Mrs Zorba. Now, in relation to your amendment, we will give you a clear answer for each article. Your arrangements for contractors were incomplete from the outset, you have also smuggled them and you are coming today with fire-fighting amendments, beyond any legal precedent, to retrospectively and fragment the workers' fates, on the issues of the operation of the archaeological sites and museums of the country. It is certain that these regulations do not just solve, but perpetuate years of problems. Besides anything else, the Ministry of Culture and Sport, until you take over, was one of the ministries with the highest absorption of European funds for the implementation of digital projects. Once you have taken over, there has obviously been no development in digital policy projects. And you come now, four years after your noisy announcements about the online ticket you have delayed its implementation and you still have not completed it - why are you talking about expansion, and I said from the outset that you have started with the pilot application, and obviously to talk about expansion, does it mean that it has not been fully implemented - so to convince us that the implementation of the extension you have announced is in line with the Ministry of Education? What gaps do you want to fill? Your Ministry or the Ministry of Education? In relation to the amendments tabled by other ministries and by some Members, I will tell you that for the amendment concerning the Venice Museum, we would be positive. It has been said that an amendment will be tabled, instead of being parliamentary, as a minister in a bill of your own Ministry of Sport and which is currently being discussed in committee since 14: 00. We therefore expect this amendment to come as ministerial. I hope that you will respect your commitment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In relation to the amendment of competence of the Ministry of National Defence, we agree with the amended provisions. We have a reservation on the cases referred to in the first subparagraph of Article 16(17) of Law 2439. In conclusion, I cannot make a reference to copyright when you have kissed the dead GDPI, Minister. At the time when you could, with the proper transposition of the Community directive, have resolved the question of collective management, you have come to a state of collective management. We're the only country in the world doing this thing. You have created a mess on the market, you have not received the right, it is not attributed to the creators, and you are calling it a success. And finally, on the issue of the heights of the Acropolis, look, it is not the new building regulation, but the fact that you did not do your job properly. Because there is Mr.3028/2002 who gives you all the tools and, in particular, Article 10. The Acropolis and the Parthenon are a global cultural site in the international community and it is your duty to protect the monument and to demonstrate it in every way. You must therefore set a clear framework for this universal monument to be dominated by the Atmospheric Landscape without hampering entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Some comments on some of the amendments. Well, he was a few of them this time, and that's good. First of all, the Security Studies Centre, a service of the Ministry of Civil Protection. With the amendment, this Centre for Security Studies is becoming a vehicle for lifelong learning, so that there is typically this convergence between the state mechanisms of repression with private security companies known as security in the world. And we say that there is standard convergence, because in practice this convergence is progressing and is normally going on in all the countries of the European Union with its own guidance. We must not forget, however, and it is important to remember how the European Union and NATO mean security, since these Imperialist organisations are setting themselves the first priority of security, control and treatment of the people's movement before all, on the pretext of when terrorism and when radicalisation is taking place. It should not be missed, too, that 'private security' specialisation has been a long time ago in the European framework of qualifications of the European Union. On this basis, therefore, and because of the fact that we have already voted against it, and because it standardises a continuing process, we will be placed with the'residents' in the specific amendment which has, of course, been made, the 18th article of the bill. With regard to the amendment by the Ministry of National Defence of 1992/41, which the Minister of National Defence presented a moment ago, and which, of course, refers to its first part in the training of the civil servants of the Ministry of National Defence, we should say here that it is another thing to train employees, workers in general, and this training should be a criterion for any personal development. We do not think these two are necessarily going together. We do not regard this as a JRC because we believe that training should be carried out by all workers, by all employees, and therefore there is no reason why it should be a criterion for their personal development, since they are all going to have it. With this point, let us say that for the amendment in question, which has a second part of course, we will be positive. And I now come to the end, in the amendment by the Ministry of Culture, an amendment which, of course, is long-sketched with many individual provisions, which even has several provisions and we generally have a positive approach. We shall vote on it as a whole because the amendments are being voted on. However, we have to say that it is in line with the extensions of contracts. We have voted in this Chamber I do not know how many times how many extensions of contracts. That's what happens and at some point it has to stop. Because you know, the workers themselves, who suffer this suffering from industrial relations, live every time in stress and anxiety, when their contracts are over, when they will be extended if they are extended and all the relevant. I think it's very difficult for a man to get through this. And we are, at some point, going to have this solved with permanent staff. Now for the online ticket, you know the problem isn't in the last name, but in the essence, it's on the ticket. Of course we are in favour of modernization, not a reason, but a ticket, Minister, is expensive. And especially for such emblematic monuments of culture, such as the Acropolis, I would say that many times it is forbidden to give 20 euros to visit. And you know, of course, that visitability is growing in the summer months. When it is good time for people to come out to visit monuments, they will not go into the pilgrimage with rain and air to visit the ancient monuments. That's right. And that's why we may have the data by 2016 from the EFF, despite the fact that in the first eight months of 2016 we had a reduction in visits to the archaeological sites and an increase in revenue. How did that happen? It's very simple, because the tickets have been spectacularly increased. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Overall, as I said, we will be positive about this amendment, which has too many individual regulations and we would also like your final position on this Brandenburg Museum, to say something here, namely, if it is tabled, when it will be tabled and in what bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u211	We will give the floor to the special speaker of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. I'll just make a few remarks. At the time the committee debated a draft law on sport with sixty-three articles, we again had delayed amendments and an entirely irrelevant of the Ministry of National Defence. We have asked you not to repeat this phenomenon. We have asked a lot of questions, Mr Minister, about the Ministry's issues, and you should answer them too, both in simple questions and in topical questions. It's your obligation. We have asked questions about the monument of Amphipolis for good reasons and, above all, about the house of Paul Mela, which has been devastated for years and particular importance should be given to this issue - it is the symbol of the Macedonian Struggle, as of course also for all the ancient monuments that went through the TIADE. You referred to delays in the metro of Thessaloniki. But he was raped by the Prime Minister to launch a station in Thessaloniki when he visited her last time. Of course, he did that for election reasons. Of course, the people of Thessaloniki have been waiting for this subway for many years, but with this attitude of government and new delays and laughing and angry. It has been announced again - and it should never have stopped, of course - the subject of the Parthenon's sculptures. Finally, something has to be done with this. You have too little time until the elections. So far, however, you have shown little positive examples and you strongly remind the former failed governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u213	The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Baltas, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. I would not have seconded - and thank you for giving me the floor - because I hoped that at the end of this procedure a framework of understanding would have been established in relation to the nature of this bill and what we have said in our speeches. Mrs Kefaliannis, in my opinion, did not do that, so I somehow have to give an answer very specific and brief. The general category is that we're stalling. In my opinion, this does not mean that it does not understand how the services operate, how the ministries operate, how many difficulties there are to complete a check. As I have tried to say in my introduction, we have had a phenomenon here, and I refer to the Solidarity Fund, which has been so well established for decades, that it has already taken care of itself legally, so that it cannot change, if it does not agree to the change of one on the other, to have legally established a percentage of the RDF resources for its own funding, and thirdly, to have the fully uncontrolled paperwork on where this money is going again. This money, if you wish, went to the offices of Ministers and to the federations, so that the offices of Ministers and federations in the coup d'état, I would say, of political leadership and of trade unionism, will allow me a slight difference between Mr Delis, which I would say is not a state, but a two-party union, because the leadership of the Solidarity Fund was there over time and every government renewed it and went below. So if you do not want to understand, Mrs Kefaliannis and other colleagues, that this is a major issue in the form of the country's administration for 15 years at the level of the middle-level, not of the great, not of the armaments, not of NOVARTIS, not of the 'SIEMENS', below a size class, but of size if it is horizontal across the state mechanism and across the general government, the money thus broken up is equal to the country's debt of about. We have to understand that. We need to understand, in reply to Mr Javarra, that, of course, the Ministry of Culture gives you such an upsurge in order to move forward, to think, to look at things - no objection - but culture, like everything, has material conditions. So if the material conditions of culture, part of which is money, go as they went to the Solidarity Fund, it is absolutely impossible to enjoy the good of culture without any consideration of that possibility. Third point. She talked about the candles, the refreshments, Mrs. Kefaliannis. I hoped that he would not, because I hope he knows that candles horizontally in public administration are the focal points of established interests, family or other, which are extremely difficult to move. Especially in the candles of archaeological sites, this habit has been embedded in candles that worsen the time of quality. This has to be broken in terms of both quality and good management of candles and at the level of use of the cage money in relation to the purposes of the Ministry of Culture. If you want to have the conversation, do it thoroughly, candlestick, maybe to understand why the competitions came out afresh. From there on, there are some other points, secondary to these primates. Firstly, that there are no magical solutions to press tensions - it is right that Mr Delis should note this - for example, free access to archaeological sites for the whole world in the face of the need for resources from the Culture Fund from the archaeological sites. That's where we have to find gold incisions. Magic solutions don't exist. We have made proposals and made progress in situations where both have improved. Free ticket increased, if you want, not all months of the year, soared. Cheap archaeological sites than anywhere in Europe to go on like this. Such tensions relate to too many public administration dimensions. I'm done. Berna: It is a little problem for Mrs Kefalonia to raise the subject of Berna again. You remember the concept of the national monument, you remember a conversation that had nothing to do with the scientific nature of what this extremely wonderful grave was. Remember the image "responsible tomb" in relation to Vergina and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u215	You mean Amphipolis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u216	I was hoping there wouldn't be this conversation again. From there on, Verena is an excellent place - I've seen him personally - he's extremely sensitive to his maintenance. The whole process of exploiting it has begun to go ahead and obviously the scientific question about who was buried there has gone to scientists, has not gone to the political leadership of the New Democracy at that time. Speaking of which, I referred to Mr. Samaras, let me say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u217	Aren't you talking about Vergina?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u218	Are you talking about Amphipolis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u219	I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. Amphipolis. I got the great archaeological sites involved. And there's a controversy if it was Philip or not, but it's probably overrun.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u220	Don't say that now. Don't hurt that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u221	Just efforts, as you saw that, I believe - and I am ending here - were trying not to harm workers' rights from moving from one body to the other, despite the fact that - and that is where I think everyone should do - there were too many questions about how it was formed. You remember that the place for the famous "Organization for the construction of the New Acropolis Museum" had then been plunged over by the Minister of Samaras. I don't want to get into this, I don't like that type of report. I wouldn't even say that if I wasn't provoking Mrs. Kefaliannis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u222	We are grateful to Mr Baltas, who has also completed the cycle of secondary rapporteurs and special speakers. Minister, although you spoke a moment ago, would you like some time to intervene or close the debate here and proceed with the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, because a number of issues have been raised, such as the Bran, for example, to clarify...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u224	You said you wouldn't answer for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u225	That's why I'm calling you, if you want, to place yourself on some questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u226	I won't be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u227	...to give you the floor to close after you and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, we are not going to start a round of retaliations, just for information...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u229	Two-three minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u230	Yes, Mr. President. For the Brandenburg Museum in particular, because a specific issue has been raised, it has been presented as a parliamentary amendment. As a financial cost arises because it is a new agency, etc., we have been asked to follow the procedure of the General Accounting Office of the State, so we need a report from the General Accounting Office and we will therefore do so as part of a ministerial amendment to the procedure of the Ministry of Culture and Sport bill under way. I'm saying this to be clear. The rest, I think, is a dialogue that took place in the past few days and we do not have to recycle it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is adjourned: 'Creating a child station in the Ministry of Culture and Sport, regulating the questions of the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, repealing the New Acropolis Museum and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of nineteen articles, of three amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. You need to make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u232	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u233	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u234	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Creating a child station at the Ministry of Culture and Sport, regulating the issues of the Solidarity Fund of Officials of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, repealing the Agency for the Construction of a New Acropolis Museum and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u236	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-27-S1-commons.u237	With the consent of the House at 15.30 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 28 February 2019 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
