ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] First, let me announce the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 5 December 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 276/2-12-2019 by MP Carditsa of New Democracy Mrs.Asina Skondras to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Serious malfunction due to the subordination of the services of the FOCA farmers of Thessaly". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Constantine Barkas, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the extension of the Joint Projects. 3. The question by No 265/27-11-2019 of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminis Kaminis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Association of public bodies with merital criteria". 4. The 283/12-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the damage caused by the catastrophic floods in Chania, support and compensation for the injured". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Evangelos Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Prolonging employment through the programmes of a mutual nature in the protection of forest ecosystems in the country". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis under No 266/28-11-2019 by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: ‘Is there finally a securitisation and sale of outstanding debts of the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Debts?’. 3. The 284/3-12-2019 topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The workers in the programme of public work on forest protection". 4. The question under number 273/2-12-2019 by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Public Agricultural Land: Great opportunities to support young farmers and professional farmers, but the Ministry of Rural Development and Food (YPAF) is deaf". 5. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "In the air, workers in the social programme for the protection of forest ecosystems in the country". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle of the articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Following the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia in the area of social security and its Administrative Rules". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement have voted in favour. He had the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of the ratification of the agreement on social security between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia, we want to take note of the exploitation that workers accept in labour and insurance rights, particularly migrants, either in our country or in another country the Greek immigrants. Immigration has taken great proportions. As we have said, Europe has reached the point. They accept the greater barbarity of the system all migrant workers from their countries. Of course, can anyone say 'no' to an transnational agreement on the transfer of insurance rights? Of course, and he cannot say 'no'. But what rights will be transferred? What is a legislative framework for employment rights that give rise to insurance rights? Unpaid work, undeclared work, hunger wages, flexibility, part-time work, all of these are the make-up of the working gala. How many are those who in their working life, in this context, can document their insurance rights and what? So, in order for this transnational agreement to be worthy, we should see what these workers face, what torment them. First of all, they do not have equal working rights with the tolerance of all governments. They do not even enjoy these working rights left over during the period of crisis with the three memoranda and hundreds of law enforcement, which continue to overturn and serve capitalist growth, namely the profitability of businesses. The Government implements its strategy, which considers labour and insurance rights to be an obstacle to the profitability of business groups. And with the measures he takes, he puts them across the street. It characterises them as pathogens and effectively cancels them with the tolerance to employers' arbitrary status or abolishes them by the legislative framework it votes on. Labour rights build on insurance rights, which, with the ratification of the convention, can be transferred to the country of origin of immigrants, in this case in Serbia and Greece. The insurance policy has been overshadowed. What will the Serbian worker actually carry into his homeland? It will carry what is left of the SYRIZA law, the Katrugalos law as it has been called, and what remains of the new fierce attack prepared by the New Democracy Government by the Brutsis Act, continuing, as I said in committee, to implement the Loverdos law, the Katrugalou Law and all these safeguard measures that have been taken in the past. The Government of New Democracy prepares for the definitive abolition of social security, the privatisation not only of the subsidiary but also of the so-called remuneration. It transforms insurance from social to individual case. Mr. Mitarakis at the conference of private insurance companies invited insurance businessmen to have lunch with the additional 100 billion. Employees' contributions are becoming an area of profitability of the insurance traders. Workers will know what contributions they will make, but they will not know what they will get back. The contributions will be played in gambling and the insured will be investors in low, medium and high risk investments. The worker will monitor performance and what he can transfer as a right to his home country. The worker, Greek or immigrant, will have the freedom of choice, as the Minister of Labour likes to show, to suffice with the so-called 'national' pension of EUR 360, which at present is so, and only has the State's guarantee, or to accept the full privatization of supplementary insurance, supplementary pension and, as they state, the contributory pension which he follows, for which he will have no guarantee by the State. Contributions will be invested and jeopardised in old age and in the insurance of the worker and his family for health, care, welfare, various stock and stock markets. Really, can a worker whose salary is EUR 500 pay his contract and others for his family in private insurance? What individual button, in future, will the worker be transferred to Serbia or Greece? Based on the law in place in the country - it says the convention - it also needs to be known what Serb workers will be transferred to their home country, when they are repatriated, of these rights which they have here in our country. He says to the Labour Minister in committee that he who will transfer rights from Greece to Serbia will be better placed than the one who will only have rights in Serbia, because our insurance system says it is better. So what's he telling us? Whatever's worse, so don't complain. I mean, it makes sense to the lesser evil. As a JRC, we will not interfere in the transfer of any of their rights. We have fought for the transfer of insurance rights for Greeks and migrants. We want to block the reinsurance attack organized by the government, based on the Katrugalou law, which it comes to implement with legal corrections, so that they are lawful on the basis of the decision of the Council of State and the further completion of the conditions of operation of the three pillars, namely the Pinochet model. This is the European Union's strategy on social security, and this is what the government is doing here, a pan-European product, private, who will pay, whoever will not die on the steps of the hospital, as is done in the United States, and who will work to the grave. Thousands of workers, pensioners, self-employed, farmers, young people and young people in many cities protested last Saturday against the government's announcements, against the new crime in insurance, claiming exclusively public, compulsory social security, with benefits and pensions covering modern needs. They were thousands and they were not a group as Mr Mitsotakis said at the New Democracy conference, announcing bans on concentrations, protests and claims. You should know, as we have said in committee, that you are counting without the hotel owner, if you think that the right to protest can be abolished, the right to the rally, the right to the gathering. That, of course, won't be the law you're doing. Thousands of people will flood the city squares to protest and claim their demands. Reconstructing the labour movement is coming. This is what they did the other day, claiming social security, claiming not to be overturned, standing in the face of this policy pursued by the government, which is already preparing - and they are said by Mr Brutsis and Mr Metarakis every day - the workers for the new crime that is being committed in social security, thus satisfying the needs of big capital. We are voting 'yes' to ratify the convention on the transfer of any rights left to these workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. The Greek Solution has also been reserved. Mrs. Athanasios will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Government on the Establishment of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia in the field of social security and its administrative regulation is to be discussed in plenary. Of course, we do not understand why an agreement signed in 2017 by the previous government comes so late, almost two and a half years, for ratification in the Greek Parliament. Even Serbia ratified this Agreement in July 2018. There is no doubt that the defence of the safety of workers is and must be the task of every rule of law and, of course, we do not see why an agreement leading to a fair treatment of the work and the rights of the citizens of the two countries, when they are in the other country of their origin, would be harmful to these citizens. The committee heard statements about an investment explosion in Serbia by Greek companies and combined this with the need and usefulness of such an agreement for Greece, that is, that with the existing agreement the Greek state is rightly treating the Greeks who work in Serbia. Yeah, of course, but how many are there? The truth is that no matter what investment Greece makes in Serbia, the majority of the employees will be Serbs, and the Greeks who are there are certainly either high-level and well-paid or themselves. Unless some people think that Greeks will go to Serbia as well as workers. The Minister himself in committee stated that between a Serbian insured person in Serbia and a Serbian insured person in Serbia and Greece, the latter is clearly better placed than to say at a better fate. It is therefore inconsistent to conclude that between a Greek who is insured here and one of our patriots in Serbia, the Greek insurer here is self-evident in a better position. This agreement, ladies and gentlemen, primarily serves and protects our Serbian friends who work in our country and we have no objection to that. This Agreement also appears to be designed to combat tax evasion, undeclared work and above all the sound exploitation in Greece. Nor do we have any objections here, of course. This agreement contains provisions on the transfer and recognition of periods of insurance from one country to another, and for that very reason, to strengthen and protect even a Greek worker in Serbia, not only do we have no objection but we do so, since it is our duty, as a party, to serve and protect the Greeks first. However, there are some issues which concern us and we put them both in this House and in the current government for observation. Article 14(1) refers to the minimum period of insurance, which will be only 12 months, for the acquisition of a pension. This period might be further considered if it is served. In Article 16, a comprehensive reference shall be made for the repayment of the pension and the method of calculating the theoretical reference amount. We believe that the effectiveness of this way, in which we are not from the outset opposed, will be judged in practice. But what is more sensational and concerns us, I dare say, is the special report of Article 75(3) of the Constitution, accompanying this draft law, and in particular, we are concerned about the fact that, from the outset, there is a burden on the ECA, in the cases of benefit through the principle of taking account of periods of insurance or residence in both countries. On the 15-11-2019 there are two thousand seven hundred forty-nine people insured in Greece Serbs, but in the future no one can know what the number of workers will be using this principle. We must therefore be careful about implementation. If nothing else, obliging the ECA to provide insurance is reasonable and expected, but recognising that by a priori is probably a matter which, as I said before, must be observed. Minister, in defending our insurance system and the insurance bill you will bring to the vote, you said that Greece is better than Serbia and we agree with you and we increase. Our insurance system is better than Serbia and other Balkan countries and African countries, certainly and our country in general is better than too many countries, human rights, freedom, health, hospitality and tolerance. And while it should be an example of imitation, it becomes a goal of perfume. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of this bill, our country should bear in mind not to become El Dorado and the Promised Land for everyone seemingly and on the basis of a plan condemned by the world and not to become the hellhouse and the focal point of fear for the Greeks. Today, a Greek is brutally affected by his life in Greece and, apart from the others that we could say, if he wants to be insured better, he would be a Serb in this regard. If he wants to have an allowance, a guaranteed roof and food better be a refugee or a poacher. And if he wants to make tourism and holidays in Greece he better go to England, Germany, the Scandinavian countries and come with charters from there to see our Greek beauties economically and decently. We as Greek Solution from the outset proudly say the Greeks. We say 'yes' to this agreement, in the light of the fact that even a Greek, who either by choice or necessarily is located and lives abroad, will benefit and be justified by its provisions. But we call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the government - because we will do so - to monitor the functionality and usefulness of this agreement which can also be a guide to other agreements and, if necessary, to make improvements and introduce exceptions so that there is no exploitation. We invite you to protect Greek women and Greeks in Greece and the feeling of law, because what is legal is not necessary and moral. In spite of all our remarks, we are voting 'yes'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Athanasios. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of making two announcements. The Ministers for the Interior, Finance, Foreign Affairs and Citizens' Protection tabled a draft law on 2-12-2019: "Accommodating the exercise of the electoral right of voters outside the Greek territory and amending the electoral procedure". The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs also submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece tomorrow". The President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, asked for the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to begin by saying quite simply that the agreements with Serbia are very good and we are doing good agreements and, in any case, we agree on some basic things. I would, however, like the government to realise that these agreements on driving licences and social security are something that any government, Minister, could do. It's not very important to ratify an agreement. You could, however, copy Serbia into key things it has done. You know that Serbia has become a pole or receive, if you like, many investments by Chinese companies, huge companies. I say this so that some colleagues in this House can hear it. Serbia has also made a horrifying, stunning agreement with the Eurasian Union and can freely, without duties, transport its agricultural products all over Eurasia, to a market of one hundred and eighty-three million people. I say this because we are in favour of Greece - Serbia - alliance - Orthodoxy and homosexual states. But when the Eurasian Union opens its doors, you can't close your ears and your eyes. Why am I saying that? Because Greece is the country that has imposed an embargo on Russia, Greece is the country that has sent an army against Russia, Greece is the country that has not made any openings to the Eurasian Zone for just one reason, because it is not the Americans, the Germans. What bothers me, you know what it is? We are persecuted by a fearful behavior, a horrific syndrome with other relationships, with other poles, with other countries, if you like. Our world, ladies and gentlemen, is not one-sided. It used to be. There was Pax America. Now he's a polypolic. So let us open up our horizons in other areas and elsewhere. You know that Serbia's agreement with the Eurasian Union or Zone says: 100% of agricultural products produced are obliged to absorb this Union. Repeat: 100%. That is what you must do, Minister, by bringing us a ratification of a driving agreement now. “We should have said,” they say in my area. So when an Eurasian Union tells you that it can get 100% of your agricultural products, it means you have to do something too. Our own agricultural products, peaches, for example, do not take Russia and throw them away. Our products, vegetables, we throw them away. And the worst part is that we are also making imports from other regions. Minister, tell the Prime Minister that we have made a fatal mistake in our policy. And the mistake is the one-dimensional foreign policy, and that is reflected in the latest developments. I want you to listen to me, Minister, why are you a young man and I will say it again: why should Greece be involved in roaming against Russia? You tell me. Why should we make an enemy of Russia, which, in any case, also, by seeing our own curious attitude, helps Turkey? But tell me what the difference between Germany and our national problems, Russia and the United States is. How do all these countries support us? No country is supporting us. Everyone's looking at their interests. Even McCron, who has made statements with Trump, is not that he disagrees with Skopje and vetoed France for anything, because very simply Trump imposed duties on wines and products French, and that is why Macron veto vetoed. And instead of rejoicing Greece that vetoed France for Skopje, I would ask Mr Mitsotakis not to veto. These are unauthorised things for a country that does not understand that the world has changed. They have not understood Parliament's major parties that the world has changed. There is China, there is Russia, there is the Eurasian Union, there is America. It's not just America. There's not only America. Understood. You're conducting a multipolar relationship. This thing can't be done. What does the Church of Greece have to do with the Ukrainian Patriarchate? Why did the Church of Greece have to interfere and get into the nose of the Russians we need? You tell me. Why should we make enemies of other countries when we could make friends to them? They are just things that you need to see, because Serbia wins both from its relationship with Russia and from its relationship with China and from its relationship with the European Union. The question is, Greece is what it wins. There are no more monopolies, Mr. Kefaliannis. And because I'm one of those people I want to think right is fair on the planet, I'll tell you something very simple. I heard Mr. Neddy say that illegality does not produce right. The Foreign Minister's answer to the Italian challenges of the Turks was this: "Illegality has produced no right". If you want me to paraphrase it, I'll say that the nonsense doesn't produce any work. There's no right in the world we live in. Understood. Since the time of caves, unfortunately, there is no right. It never existed. It is the law of the mighty, for the mighty go as far as his power and the power retreats as his weakness imposes upon him. And that's not what I'm saying. Thucydides say so. Are these reasonable, Minister, to constantly invoke international law? I will tell the President, Mr Athanasios, who has sensitivities. Yesterday I tabled a letter, ladies and gentlemen. We're not many in here, but I want you to hear it. He takes part in the procedure for the cars of parliamentarians, with whom we, a Turkish company, are opposed to 'AVIS'. It is unacceptable, Minister, that the Greek Parliament should give money to the "AVIS", which is a Turkish company of interest. I sent a letter to the President of Parliament, told them that there were other companies and why should we take from 'AVIS' cars which are Turkish company, Turkish interests? Is it possible for us to accept so many challenges from the Turks and insist that we take and give the Turks money? I'm asking you. We blame the citizens who are going on holiday to Istanbul, Andrianoupolis, and we say some things, good or bad. But is this where the Greek Parliament goes to pick up cars from a Turkish company? It's not populism, you know. It is self-evident, which a man can make as a MP, to be the marker. That was a parentheses, and I closed it. We are now going to the Mitsotakis Declaration, which Prime Minister, Mr Minister, to me - I do not know how pleased you are - said this unimportant that if Turkey is causing it, it will find the European Union and all our allies. And I wonder, "If you take my bucket, will I call my dad beat you?" Is that what the Prime Minister did? That's what he said, if you hurt us, I'll bring my dad and my uncle who are taller than me to beat you. We're alone. You can't invoke allies who have conflicting interests with yours. Trump has interests with Greece, do you think? Trump has his own interests, serves his own class tactic. So what are we waiting for? Should Trump save us, Merkel and all of them? You're making mistakes. These are painful mistakes. You need to gain knowledge and self-awareness that we are alone and we will fight alone. We were always on our own. Of course, I will also mention how different your government is and perhaps some people are uncomfortable, but, unfortunately, they are, ladies and gentlemen. The thing about the MOI going out to say other things about stopping the MOI, the Confidence Building Measures. The Ministry's coming out, it leaks something, and we say the MOI stops. After two hours, the Prime Minister clears him. Is that a government? That's a circus. This, unfortunately, is a circus and we are talking about a major issue. That's not simple. You don't play with those words or those actions. It can't be done. Also, I'm glad Mr. Tasoulas did something amazing. He learned and said he tried to call the President of the Haftar Parliament, Libya. I wish he'd come here. I've been yelling for months: Find them with Huffar, 'cause we're gonna have trouble. I said it here. I was yelling. No one listened to me, anyway. If the President of Parliament does, Mr Tassoulas, we are with him, because this man's presence is the opposite to Turkey's foreign policy. It's a diplomatic movement very smart. And he's smart, the President of the House, and I'm happy for that. But I must say that immediately to discontinue your relations with the other Libyan Government in Tripoli. They're philosophers. It's against Greece. They are doing acts which run counter to international law, as you call it, but mainly to our national sovereignty. Stop every relationship. My question - and I close here - and I will say this with a lot of sympathy is: If tomorrow the Turks send Javouz under Crete, what will you do? Should the Prime Minister not convene a council of Presidents of parties or make a council of national security? Say that tomorrow morning the Turks come down from Crete, Mr. Kefaliannis. You're a Cretan. It's coming down from down to Crete. What are we gonna do? Will the Prime Minister decide on his own what Greece will do? Should there not be a joint agreement between the Heads of State or Government - even disagreements - but a single front against Turkish provocation? There must be no other view saying that the entire Greek people are blamed on decisions of national sovereignty, yes or no? Why don't you do it? A national security council does not have our country! In closing - because there is little time, unfortunately - I will say something to Mr Samaras, who has suddenly come out of nowhere in your conference, Mr Kefalayannis, and spoke about patriotism, illegal immigrants and other invaders. Look, I understand the precursor, the agony of some to become Presidents of the Republic, to do something else - I do not personally care about myself - but did Mr Samaras not vote for the anti-racist law? The Government of New Democracy did not vote for the anti-racist law of 2012? Samaras was Prime Minister! He voted for him and is today being persecuted on the basis of a complaint lodged with him for racist statements. I cannot understand, that is, I do not understand, how we suddenly forget what we were doing before and say what we were doing next. Other words, other actions! If anyone wants to become a Prime Minister, let them become President of the Republic, President of Taiwan, President of the Republic of Taiwan - I don't know where they will be - let them take place. But it cannot take advantage of the patriotism of the Greeks, and suddenly, while it supports the New Democracy that is multicultural, that your Prime Minister wants multiculturalism, is inconvenience - he says, I know - Greece with other cultures, that Samaras supports the government and then make patriotic statements. These are not reasonable things. Find them between you because you are a party, five lines, ten opinions and unfortunately, you lead Greece to the cliff. Wake up before it's too late, because it will be too late not for you, for Greece, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u9	To give just one clarification, Mr President, that the anti-racist law was the honour of proposing it as the Minister of Justice. On this basis, any maliciously denying war crimes, crimes against humanity, the Holocaust, of course, all sexual differences, color and so on. And it also has conditions that are different, there is also an external term of deportation, as we say, which, if it is not the case, cannot be punished. I'm just saying it for clarification, so that it can be understood what the mesh of the provisions is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u10	It's not exactly like that, it's Islamophobia!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u11	Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. We appreciate Mr Velopoulos who is morning and loaded, but I wanted to say that in foreign policy matters it is good to be modest, serious. Greece has nothing to fear. We are at a more difficult stage - there is no doubt - with the provocativeness, the counterproductive provocation of Turkey. From there on, our national policy, our foreign policy, is multidimensional, is exactly the opposite of what you have said. Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Dendias as leaders of this course, I think they will do what every government would do with national self-confidence, such as the Greek and cover every concern of the Greek people. So I would also suggest to you who have a quite great experience - despite your little age - not to raise tones and create topics, because in the past, when such issues were created by political tensions, they did not have good results. Indeed, our world is not the same as it was a few years ago. We have an absolute knowledge of this, which is why the multi-dimensional policy is now basically looking at our family, the European Union, and that is where we are getting strength from. Of course, we want a lot to change there. We look, as you saw last few days, towards China. We have a very good relationship with Russia. I do not know where you found this that we want to close doors to Russia. Clearly America is our ally traditional and we don't want to leave him. But we realise that this great country is on a different path. I therefore think that the stability that Greece and our common national front have in the interior, which is being exported when we discuss foreign policy issues, but also our firm position on the Western Balkans, are data that you do not disagree with. So it is good - and here in such bills as what we are discussing today - not to raise tons for no reason. A little comment on Mr Samaras: Our prolongation is the largest in Europe. Obviously, in a party that is 40% and is currently actually covering the great majority of the Greek people, there is no possibility that there will be an absolute matching of views within its framework. Mr Samaras expressed his views, interpreting a large part of the Greek people. The Greek Government has its firm policy. I think it's the best we can get in these circumstances. And within this framework of internationalisation, tightening and speeding up, we consider that we also cover your personal and party concerns, but also the sensitivities and concerns of the entire Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, do you want the floor for personal? Obviously not for the case that he spoke excitemently, but for the alteration of your statement content?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I shall reply on personal grounds, not for a bad mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u16	Let's hear it first. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Lebanese for saying that I am a young man. Anyway, I'm a little old, but thank you. Let me tell you, Mr. Levane, that I usually wake up in the morning every day because I work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u18	So am I.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u19	I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about some others who don't wake up or sleep in the morning. I say it to make it clear, every morning I go to my business. Secondly, you said we were doing well with Russia. I'm afraid you're not doing well with the truth - I'm afraid I'm saying that - as a government, not you. We imposed an embargo on Russia together with the European Union, sent an army against Russia. In Ukraine, we have unfortunately been involved in both the Patriarchate and their constituencies. The Russians have us'red cloth'. Isn't that what we understand? And it is not - I repeat - your only issue, it is lasting, because you are associated with NATO's aggressive policies, you are involved with a NATO that needs to be dissolved - and McCron says so too - and you have been completely identified with NATO, with the accident of having the results of these choices too. As much as we agree with the Western Balkans, we strongly disagree with you. Neither Albania belongs to Europe nor Skopje belong to Europe nor Kosovo belongs to Europe. They belong where they belong. Where? To the drug trade that Rama and their company are doing! End of story, that's the truth! We do not agree with your policy in the Western Balkans at all. In conclusion, I should like to tell you that we insist on the Board of Governors for just one reason, because we will convince the Prime Minister there that he must hold a National Security Council. We are the only country that has no constitutional court. Otherwise, you can say what you want for your party and for Mr Samaras, opinions are these, others are patriots, others say it, others are not. As for what you said, Mr President, there is 'Islamophobia', but there is no 'Greek-phobia' in it. Put "Greek-phobia" into anti-racist law or "orthodoxphobia", say it's an equal law. This is how the law is very selective. When you say something about Islam, they take you to the lighthouse. If I say anything about orthodoxism, and I swear, I'm not going anywhere. So it's not exactly like that. That is what I mentioned about the anti-racist law, Mr President. That's why Dimitris has done a lawsuit and sues industry. And to Samaras he's done and to the Prime Minister he'll do anywhere, every day he's sued. Well, that's what we say and it makes sense. We're not saying anything absurd.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u20	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take the floor on the grounds that we are discussing the ratification of an agreement with Serbia on insurance, labour and insurance matters, because we have just come from the OTO demonstration this morning on the grounds of the unnecessarily dismissal of twenty-four bank employees from a particular banking institution, which is unprecedented after ten years of crisis and this whole process of merging banking, credit institutions. Without having opened a nose, without the employee's working rights at stake, now, a few days ago, before the House, the bill on the "HRAKLIS" project related to the resolution of banking institutions and non-performing loans and while the credit institutions themselves have come out with profitable results in the last six months, this move is being made. I think there should be effective intervention by the government. Mr. Mitsotakis a month ago, on the occasion of the bank debt, met with the leaders of the four systemic banks. I do not know what the contents of the debate were, but I imagine he would be aware of this development. We as a Change Movement already met with OTOTE yesterday. Our President, Fofi Gennimata, made a statement that she condemns such practices and calls on the government to intervene, since Mr Mitsotakis has such a channel of communication - and he must have - with the head of the institutions and withdraw this decision. As far as what has been said is concerned, I do not know whether Mr Lebanese was self-criticizing about the attitude of the New Democracy, Mr Samaras, in 1992, and how we have led to all this development of our foreign policy and management by the end of 1992.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u22	I was referring to the Imia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u23	I don't know what you were talking about. We have asked for a convening of the Council of Political Heads. The Phophy Gennamas has asked for it. We think that the juncture is very critical and now requires a single line to be drawn up at a top political level. But we cannot ignore the fact that in this development, which we now see a diplomatic and top political mobility, the government, like the previous one, has shown flaw in the demarcation of the EEZ with neighbouring countries, in Turkey's moves, in Turkey's provocativeness. And we do not say that, Mr Levane. On 22 July your Member, Mr Syrigos, has written specifically about the strategic importance of the Libya-Turkey agreement and the risks it poses. Four months ago, that's exactly what this is about. And it comes, since this is the act of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to find reflexes, to go to Egypt - rightly does so - then a celebration to take a protest, to ask the Libyan ambassador to inform him of the risk of expulsion. Good moves, but then a holiday, though. If we are not to be faced with similar incidents and situations again, I think there should also be an update and a development at the top political level for foreign policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u24	If there's a request, the Prime Minister will examine it and I imagine he'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u26	The President of the Greek Solution spoke, so you can't talk. Another parliamentary representative did not ask for the floor. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u27	Two minutes, Mr. President. I don't want any more. I have more or less taken the floor to turn the debate back to the purpose of today's sitting, which is to ratify the agreement in the field of social security. I hear the concerns of both the Communist Party of Greece and the Greek Solution. I would like to remind you, however, that this sanction does not generally bring the comparison of the two social security systems of Greece and Serbia to the table and how much more than that it does not produce a more general comparison of the economy and economic progress of the two states.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u28	The Minister brought her to committee yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u29	What I am saying is that it did not bring about a comparison of Greece and Serbia's economy, as well as a comparison of Chinese investments in our country, and how much more of the bilateral trade relations and agreements that Greece can make, such as Serbia, with other countries, within the framework of the European Union. It is therefore an agreement which has ensured a broad consensus from Parliament's parties with a state with historic and very close ties, with a country like Serbia. So I think we should get out of a debate on the interconnection of systems and by comparing the two insurance systems of Greece and Serbia and how much more of the economies of the two states. Let us not talk about Chinese investment, and let us not talk about bilateral trade agreements in which Greece as a member of the European Union can only follow Union law. This agreement is based on four main axes, four basic social security principles: firstly, equal treatment in both States of the persons covered by the agreement. Secondly, taking account of periods of insurance and residence for the purpose of establishing the pension right in both countries. Third, the proportional distribution of benefits. Fourthly, the free transfer of benefits to the beneficiary's State of residence. On the basis of these four elements, what we see as a government is that there is a broad consensus guaranteed on the agreement and, in particular, on a state like Serbia, with which we all recognise the historical, political and economic ties that connect us over the last few decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Minister. The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Insurance is closed: "Following the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia in the field of social security and its Administrative Rules of Application". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, the first article, the farewell article and the entire bill. After you register your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u31	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u32	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, will appear on the screens of the Chamber and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u33	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: ‘Repeal of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia in the field of social security and its Administrative Rules of Application’ was accepted unanimously in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole of the Agreement and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u35	The House has given the mandate requested. We enter the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport "State the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia on mutual recognition of driving licences". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u36	The House agreed. Is there a colleague who wants to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u37	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u38	Mr Katsotis has the floor, due to the reservation made by the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. There was a lot of talk in the committee, but also here today about the relations between the two countries, Greece and Serbia, which, as you know, strengthened the period when NATO was bombing the country, spreading death. Of course, as a JRC, we are in favour of mutual and beneficial relations between the two peoples. Transnational agreements on individual issues contribute to this. But the relations between the two countries in general do not coincide with the relations between the two peoples. The relationship that is intended to be developed by the bourgeois classes is in the context of the intense competition that is being developed in the region and the pursuits of the European Union, NATO, the United States, to drag Serbia to their chariot to be cut off from Russia's influence. The previous government of SYRIZA, as well as the current New Democracy as signifiers, promotes imperialist planning in the tripartite region, bilateral and various other contacts, strengthen competition and controversy. The Minister told the Commission that in view of Serbia's accession to the European Union, we are promoting a wide range of cooperation. NATO and the European Union are not stability and security forces. The course so far proves it. Of course, there is the example of Serbia, which we are talking about today. Turkey's provocation in equal distances in questioning our country's sovereign rights is also convinced by the most Euro-languages and the most natolants that they have nothing to do with stability and security. Serbia's commitment, like any country, to the imperialist organizations will bring suffering and bring to the peoples, which their struggle must strengthen against dangerous projects. Does this contract have a different character? With its ratification, it is faced with the problem of the recognition of driving licences, which migrant workers and the Serbs in our country and the Greeks are facing as a problem. The question of road safety was, of course, discussed in committee. This is all about the people who live in our country and also their neighbours. It is a big issue, we have discussed it too many times in the committee. However, the draft law has not yet come. The Minister said that within the next few days or months the draft law will come and will be discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u40	Within months.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u41	Months. Of course, the Minister did not reply to the committee. Overall, the ministers of government are avoiding to discuss road transport, about the status of workers as a whole, which employs many workers, who are long hours at the wheel and, of course, causes many accidents on the roads. Every day we mourn such victims. We believe that this is a big issue. It is not discussed because it concerns business groups. However, you have a great responsibility, which you do not touch. Although there are regulations, they are not complied with, they are not controlled by the services, which must check whether all working hours are actually fulfilled. And all this in order to avoid traffic crimes. We agree with the ratification of the agreement on the recognition of driving licences for Greece and Serbia and we vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I'll talk for a while. Just a few things must be heard in plenary about the ratification of the agreement, which we are debating today. I will again report on the time-consuming ties that we have with our friend country, Serbia, the Republic of Serbia. I think all Parliament's wings have agreed on this. I also think that corresponding references have been heard in the vote of the previous agreement. I will not go into the issues raised by Mr Velopoulos. I think our parliamentary representative answered. What I can tell you, however, is that the government in all tons, at all fora and at all levels, on the issue of Turkish provocativeness, has responded. I would remind you that the Prime Minister, during his recent visit to Rome, raised the matter with the Italian Prime Minister's counterpart. He also had telephone calls with the French President and also his visit to Madrid raised the same matter. Accordingly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Denkias, acted immediately in many cases, such as during his visit to Egypt, where with his counterpart, Minister of Foreign Affairs, discussed the issues of acceleration, regarding the proclamation of AEZ between Greece, Egypt and Cyprus. So you realise that all these actions and in conjunction with the actions taken by our permanent representative in Brussels, where he informed the High Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, Mr Mogerini, constitute a framework for actions in which the Greek Government has, in fact, acted against these challenges. I say this so that there is no doubt about it. As far as the rest of the discussions are concerned, they can be held at different levels within the Greek territory. For example, I have heard various requests from both the Change Movement and SYRIZA for the convening of the National Foreign Policy Council. It's something we'll see along with. However, I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Dendias, has informed all the parties' representatives of recent developments and I think that no one can claim to have been informed. Let's come to the agreement. You know very well that since July 2017 this agreement between Greece and Serbia on mutual recognition of driving licences has been signed. This draft law seeks, in substance, to ratify this Agreement in order to bring into force and even to take a ministerial decision, as regards the detailed procedures for the conversion of Serbian driving licences and the supporting documents required for the issue or return of Greek driving licences, so that the holders of Serbian driving licences who have acquired their usual residence in Greece can convert them into Greek. As I said in committee, the draft ministerial decision is already ready. I recalled that both Greece and Serbia have ratified the 1968 Vienna Road Traffic Convention, according to which all Contracting Parties recognise for driving on their territory on conditions for domestic, national and international driving licences, until that territory becomes the usual place of residence of their holder, that is to say, tourists and transiting drivers from those countries. In order to improve road safety and facilitate road traffic in the territory of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia, the two countries decided to proceed with the conclusion of the agreement on mutual recognition of driving licences entering these countries. This recognition of driving licences also concerns licences issued by those countries and whose holders wish to settle in the territory of the other country. Thus, with the mutual recognition of driving licences, all citizens who have their habitual residence in the territory of one of the two States, or their temporary residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, can now obtain, through the exchange of a driving licence in the country they reside, without the requirement for a theoretical and practical examination. In fact, all categories other than national categories which are not recognised by Directive 2006/126, which relate to driving licences in the European Union, will be included in the driving licence. We also told the committee, ladies and gentlemen, that the purpose of the agreement is to help the citizens of the two states obtain a driving licence in the country they live, providing only medical certificates and following a similar procedure, similar to that applied to the exchange of driving licences issued by Member States - Member States of the European Union with Greek permits and, of course, we said that any other difference arising through this agreement will be resolved through the diplomatic process. I would like to make two very brief remarks on what I have heard and on what I have heard from my colleague in the Communist Party. As I said before, in fact in the next two months we will also bring in the draft law on driving licences. We will be within the timeframe set in committee, which we said three to six months would be the task of the committee. Already, there's a first thought, a skeleton. From now on, as I have said to the committee, all parties will have the opportunity to consult both the Committee on Road Safety or whether we have a debate in the Committee on Production and Trade, of course, along with all the bodies responsible and able to contribute with their knowledge on this issue. Mr Colleagues, on the status of road transport and the question of work, you are aware, apart from the fact that it is the subject of another Ministry of Labour, that we as the Ministry of Transport are setting the framework and I think that as far as road transport is concerned and not only is a framework, which we are trying to be as successful as possible, but above all to strengthen businesses, because you must not forget that when we talk about road transport, we are talking about one person's businesses or perhaps the two people. In other words, we are not talking about large companies, we are not talking about multinational groups, and we are certainly not talking about such issues, which may be in some other sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is hereby concluded: "Under the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia on the mutual recognition of driving licences". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, the first article, the farewell article, and the whole bill. After you register your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u45	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u46	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u47	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Repeal of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia on the mutual recognition of driving licences’ was unanimously accepted, in a single discussion, in principle, of the articles and all of the articles and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u49	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy MP Christina Alexopoulou is requesting a short-day absence abroad from 15 December 2019 to 18 December 2019, because he will be in Germany as Head of Mission. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u50	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Furthermore, the New Democracy MP, Mrs Stergianis Biziou, requests a short-day absence abroad from 6 December 2019 to 9 December 2019 to attend Brussels. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u51	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-04-S1-commons.u52	With the consent of the House at 10.13 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 5 December 2019 at 9 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate, and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote at first, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow".
