ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I would like to inform you that some of the letters addressed to the President of the Greek Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, have been sent to this House. The first letter is as follows: 'Mr President, I am aware that, following the vote on the motion of confidence in the government, I would now like to see in every bill voted without a roll-call vote, my vote is to be counted along with those of the Members of the Chamber. Yours sincerely Helena Kountoura, MP in Athens."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u2	The second letter to the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsi, is as follows: 'Mr President, I am aware of this letter that, following the positive vote I gave in the Prime Minister's proposal of confidence on 16-01-2019 for the renewal of the government's term of office and in order that there are no misunderstandings about the principle of the declaration, I would now like to see every bill voted on without a roll-call vote counted with those of the Members of the Chamber. The Declaration Vassilis Kokalis, Independent MEP, Larisa.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u3	The third letter to the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolao Voutsi, is as follows: 'Mr President, I am aware that following the positive vote I gave on the proposal of confidence in the government, I would now like to see in every bill voted without a roll-call vote that I voted against with those of the Members of the Assembly. In my statement, I exclude the vote on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, if this is the case, it is not by name. After the attachment of the value O Vice President of Parliament, Konstantinos Zouraris."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u4	The following letter is also addressed to the President of Parliament: 'Mr President, Last week, on the occasion of the vote of the draft law, "Strengthening Higher Council for Personnel Selection (S.A.S.A.).), strengthening and upgrading the public administration and other provisions’, the Civic Opposition assisted by parties in the continent, with the obvious aim of causing impressions, questioned the fact that the Couple had the majority and thus the opportunity to vote in favour. The vote on the principle, like any individual article in the roll-call vote followed by a very large majority, proved to be a pretext for this question. Since I wish to contribute to defending Parliament's prestige and its proper functioning, by avoiding waste of time and energy in continuous roll-call votes, please note that, following the positive vote I have given on the government's proposal of confidence, I would like to see bills proposed by the Government for which no roll-call vote is requested, my vote is to be counted against those of the Members of Parliament. Yours sincerely Spyros Danellis, MP of Heraklion".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u5	In addition, another letter sent to the President of Parliament is as follows: 'Mr President, I have been very sceptical about the public debate and rumour about any changes in the Rules of Procedure of Parliament in the last few days, and I would like to make some remarks for more than nineteen years as a Member of the Greek Parliament. It is necessary, as I have just said in the past and ask the President of the Greek Parliament to resolve these issues in the most institutional way and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. The Independent MEP should be able to represent a decent and adequate citizen in Parliament. Unfortunately, during my speeches in the past, the initiative to upgrade the role of the Member of Parliament, who is a representative of the nation and a key 'protagonist' in democracy, has only been very few. Now that the problem has also been addressed by Parliamentary Groups, the matter concerns everyone, but in an intangible way at the expense of the Members. The MEP's post goes beyond party purposes and tacticalism, as, according to the Constitution, the MP represents the entire territory of the country and the nation at the National Representation. Therefore, just like the Member of Parliament who is part of a parliamentary group, there should henceforth be provision and provision for independent Members in this respect. Today, the Group of Independent Members has sixteen members, so that it ranks fourth among the groups of the Greek Parliament. The possibility of facilitating their parliamentary work is due to an act of Parliament by means of its Rules of Procedure in an institutional manner, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. I consider my duty and obligation, as Constantine Karamanlis proclaimed, to say that today more than ever we should serve only the true interests of the nation, overcoming the misleading labels left, centre and right. Unfortunately, Parliament's behaviour as a sad reality demonstrates the attitude of political leaders to the nation's representatives and that is the proof of their very small political upheaval. We must restrain this institutionally, committed to the Constitution, which describes exactly how parliamentarians should operate, at the service of the nation, and not at the service of close party pursuits. Mr President, following on from all this, I would like to inform you that, following the vote on the proposal for a vote of confidence in the government in order to complete its constitutional term, respecting the mandate of the Greek people, in order to complete its legislative work for the relief of Greeks and Greeks in their daily lives, I would now like in the draft laws that are voted without a roll-call vote for my vote to be counted against those of the Members of the Co-Population, given my stated confidence in the Government with which I am ally for the reasons I have just described. Yours sincerely, Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, State Secretary for Civil Protection, independent MP in Athens."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u6	Also one last letter addressed to the President of Parliament is the following: 'Mr President, I am now aware of the fact that, following the positive vote I have made on the government's proposal for confidence, I now wish for bills proposed by the Government and for which no roll-call vote has been requested that my vote be counted along with those of the Members of Parliament. Yours sincerely Athanasios Papachristopoulos".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u7	As you can see, these letters will be given to the President of the Parliament, to whom they are addressed. It will be put to the Conference of Presidents to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the discussion of the second under number 3876/29-11-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the "return of funds, which were retained in the context of availability, in a hundred ninety-seven hospital workers of Thessaloniki". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to clarify at the outset that it is about turning a simple question into a timely one, because there has been quite a long delay, two - three months we are waiting for the Minister's written reply on the subject, and we have turned it into a timely one that is now being answered. History is pretty well known. Let's go back to 2013, a flagship Memorandum Law is passed, n.4172. And what doesn't, Minister, have this law!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u10	We have to keep in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u11	He has school guards, teachers in technical education, municipal police, health officials. One more thing: it also has the ability of the Minister to set the minimum wage. This law - because the SYRIZA government has adopted this law - has now changed title by the Brutsi law now called the Brutsi law - Ahtsoglou. But I come to the subject of our question. So there are three hospitals in Thessaloniki that close the "Panagia" in Kalamaria, Lommonon and Dermatological and some two hundred sanitary staff are being made available. After about two months they go to other hospitals in Thessaloniki. But in the meantime, for about a couple of months, they don't get their regular payroll. And in our question, we ask that exactly that provision of Law 4472 - which you voted on - which provides that if the official or employee returns to his post after being made available on account of the service, the full remuneration is paid for that time. These two hundred about the number of employees have not yet paid that money. It's a substantial amount. No one can ignore it. They've lost a piece of their wages. Of course, teachers, local police officers, who have been suspended, have lost much larger sums, because those sums concerned not only two months but at least two years. We also, by the way, raise this issue. We have an answer, of course, given by the Ministry of Interior. He says it's not their thing, it's a matter of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. Now let's see what the Minister will tell us. So we ask that these people take the money they are entitled to under your own law and end it in a positive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Delis. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Paulakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Delia, thank you for the question. It's solved. But now I cannot escape the temptation - based on the imports you are doing - to say something. So listen, don't compare eggs to potatoes. Brutsis and the New Democracy reduced the basic wage by 22% and reached 27.8%. This government, and with the last Minister of State, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has raised 11% to the basic salary, has abolished the subordinate for young people up to twenty-five years and has so far dropped unemployment to 18.3% and is going down further. So don't confuse things. Others were destroyed, and we're resurrecting. An example of resurrecting is what you ask. Your question was based on a legislative initiative that we took and corrected what was done in Fleming. Some of the mechanism's employees from acquired speed and playing it "king king's king", even after return, continued to hold their money and didn't turn them back! That is why we legislated and turned them back and the above that kept and the ones that were at the start, 25%. For the three hospitals in Thessaloniki, the facts were as follows: In the Hippocrates, seven permanent and twelve employees from the former IKA had been made available. The procedure has been initiated to refund the money to them on the basis of the arrangements that had been made and to 'Fleming'. The "Family" has been returned to the money. They were twenty people from "Saint Paul", six from "Aphrodisiasia and Skin Diseases" and two from "Special Infections". We have no problem with the employees who have gone to the "Family". In 'achieve' there has been a problem. It is a matter of totality, of the evidence provided to me by the services, fifty-seven people who were transferred there. And there because some employees didn't know which to give, what they left or what they went to? - we have sent a circular - since you had asked the written question, to tell you the truth, you have a right on this issue of non-response to the written question - which states that the return of the detainees will be from the hospitals to which these employees have been transferred. We correct them, everything that falls into our understanding and what wounds the previous ones have opened up in those years, because we are entering a phase of rescheduling the Greek society. That's the point. The practical problem existed only in the 'ACHEMA', which, with the cylindrical that we send, is also solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u15	Medina Ortega, Member of the Commission. - (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent report. Now, for what the Minister said about the 11% increase, if tax and social contributions are deducted, what remains, Mr Polakis, for workers, is about 25 euros a month. If you want to celebrate these 25 euros that will enter the workers' pocket, when this government promised to give them at least EUR 751 - and you said that up to September 2015 - then celebrate, but do not invite the workers to celebrate. In other words, to put aside who will take it and this twenty-five when flexible work is reaping outside. A flexible work that in its way reduces unemployment. Because I also know how to reduce unemployment if a job is divided into two, three and four. Do you know how much unemployment will be reduced? This is how unemployment is reduced. In any case, I now come to the issue. You said it was solved. But you said below - I have listened very carefully - that it has only been solved at the "God" - that is where they have taken their money - because not even in the "Hupperate" have been taken, the process has been initiated, you said, and in "AHEPA" I don't know where there is a involvement. We would therefore like your intervention, in any case what you have to do as a Ministry, so that it unblocks the issue there and take their money. And since the debate has brought it to you, of course, to transfer the same right, as you are taking part in the Ministerial Council and you, Mr Polakis, have this request to be for teachers and local police officers, whatever - and a lot of them - had been made available at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Delis. The Minister has the floor for his dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Delia, the JRC is a serious party. I cannot hear criticism from you of the extreme right-wing type of 'Adonos - Bordeaux - Portugal'. With what you say, the increase in basic salary is EUR 3, EUR 20, EUR 25, etc., you have accepted that there will be a reduction in duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u18	But you voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u19	We also voted on the pension cut, but it did not happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u20	He's been suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u21	And we said before: "Have fun, kids, things go different. It was based on this assumption that the IMF said that we would have a billion deficit in Efaka.” We did not have a billion deficit, but we had 800 million surpluses. I've been through it many times. These surpluses are why we are not stealing. That has changed things, Mr Delis, in budgets everywhere. Now, yes, I know, on the subject of 'ACHEA' - I told you before, to come back to that one - a circular was sent. Why should I tell you another example today, to see what misery we're in trouble with? Because we can't control everything everywhere and always in the last detail. But where there is a problem, we are intervening and resolving it. Watch out for you, because it's important to hear it, and that's good, because you're telling me to intervene. Of course we are intervening - we are not doing any more work - to correct uncertainty, delays, bureaucracy, responsibilities of the administrative mechanism and the administrative mechanism. At the Hospital of Nice today, let's say, they told me they didn't catch up, he says, they didn't get the papers to change the budget by including the amount given in December 2018 for the overtime of employees. They set up the on-calls, but they didn't have time, he says, to put in overtime. The money's there, in the hospital, but they didn't make the modification, because they sent it on the 22nd month, they didn't arrive, they did, they did, fund-raiser, and now, he says, they can't be paid. So we have also sent a 'endowed' to the administration today, to be paid and regulated by law. We have also prepared an amendment and we will not delay people's wages because the paper is too late. This happens in too many places every day and even 1/10 does not come out of the public domain of what we, before they come out, solved. Here's something specific: he says he didn't have a circular "SHEAPA", as if he couldn't see what happened elsewhere or he couldn't see what happened next. So we sent the cybernetic too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Minister. The second question under number 299/28-1-2019 of the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Michael Jellée, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increased the infrastability in Serres Law and the Subordinated Police Directorate of Serres", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Olga Gerovasili, due to unsuccessful obligations. We move on to the first with number 313/29-1-2019 in the second cycle of the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, on the subject: "Very serious problems in the General Hospital of Samos". Mr. Tassos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Polakis, the problems at Samos Hospital are too much. The most important thing right now is that he doesn't have permanent pediatricians. It has only one pediatrician with a special employment relationship, moving from CEFI and a pediatric subsidiary, namely by contract, who resigned. Now, the lack of children has the effect of threatening the function of both the paediatric and the obstetric clinic by extension, since their presence is necessary, during both the delivery and the Cesarean section and for the time that the infants remain in the clinic. Because of this situation, regular and compulsory vaccinations are no longer carried out in all children. Also, due to the hospital’s overall shortages, other sections such as radiodiagnostic, otorinolaryngology and anaesthetics are at risk. This adds the single medical specialties as well as the minimum nursing and paramedical staff. The obstetrics clinic works with minimal midwives and only two nurses. Those who have long left have not been replaced. A nurse also covers two and three sections, with what this implies. The ITH with four doctors has developed four beds, while the nursing staff remain minimal and well below the prescribed limit. The same is true in other hospital departments, such as the pathological clinic, pediatrics, surgery, anaesthetics, and the emergency department, with a nurse on afternoon and night shifts and weekends. The morning shift of radiology works with a worker. The same situation prevails in the other services and departments of the hospital, in the technical and administrative services and in the laboratories. The situation is explosive. All the employees are down and exhausted. Their health is at risk from intensification of work and from incomplete health and safety measures. Immigration - refugee problem, which the government is responsible for keeping thousands of immigrants in custody on the island with serious health problems, must be added to all of them, and they all move to the hospital for examinations and treatments, since under the responsibility of the government and the relevant ministries they have not served a medical service within the hot spot in order to provide them with elementary care, such as primary health care. So we ask you, Minister: what measures will you take to ensure the immediate uptake of three permanent children, as is foreseen by the hospital's organogram, so that the pediatric and maternity clinics, as well as anaesthetics, otorinolarians and radiodiagnostics can fully and safely function? How will you ensure the necessary mass recruitment of permanent nurses and paramedical staff, in all hospital services and in the EAW, as well as in all necessary measures to protect workers? How will a doctor be set up in Samos' hot spot?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. The Deputy Minister for Health will now answer Mr Paul Paulakis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u25	Mr Tassos, first of all, I would like to say two things: we know the problems at Samos Hospital and we are trying to deal with them. But we solve it, but we don't make it. It's not all going through our hand, and I'll explain why. I'll tell you two numbers to get an image. In 2015 the qualified doctors at the Hospital of Samos were thirty-six. They were serving, specialist doctors. On 31-12-2018, it was forty-five. This increase also came from the recruitment of subsidiary persons, which has been done since then, but also from the recruitment of some people to many posts that have been opened and have not all been barren. You know that. Eleven permanent doctors have been called in, of whom - if I have the data right here - four must have been appointed from the old positions. The other ones came out horrific. Also, it's in the air right now, in a notice, ten more spots because of imputed positions. However, despite this departure, the number of qualified doctors in the hospital is higher. As far as the anaesthetics and radio-diagnostics are concerned, these two positions of caretaker II have been completed, they have been candidates and are in the appointment process. For the position of the pediatrician, there the problem is not only what you say, but it also has other implications. You know them, not to go into any more details. I just want to say this: we have proclaimed - not only once, but many times - a post and the latter was proclaimed with curator I and had a candidate who would take the post, but withdrew his nomination and the notice will come back. There was a mix-up with the pediatrician in Carlovashi - you know that - who doesn't want to help anymore at Samos Hospital. She's backing up with those two you know. We can find subsidiary directly to the extent that it exists on the list. But, you know, I can't have a doctor. There's 12 or fifteen private pediatricians outside. We've been contacted by many of them to make a contract with the hospital with a block. They don't want to. There's nothing else I can do. Getting a pistol and making him come, I can't, to explain. The position will be reopened and there are hospital credits. Let me tell you a few things, so you know them: The hospital currently has a cash supply of EUR 10,928,000. Since 2017, it does not give rise to new debts, but it is one of the few hospitals in the country, which, due to the prosecution, which has been in part of its administrative staff, has been financed, but the money is sitting, has been given very little and has arrears of around 6 million, which are old, before 2015, because almost everything has been repaid. In other words, it only has the current management, about 200,000 to 300,000 new time-lags and is currently in the 10,928,000 euros fund. There's some intrinsic malfunctions in the system there. We're working on it. It has nothing to do with the situation four years ago. Clearly, the refugee issue is a burden. In this he has a share of responsibility in solving the problem and he is also trying the CCI. We are again proclaiming and, indeed, we have greatly increased the 'PHILOS' programme in relation to the recruitments that are to take place there. We're waiting for this to end. Clearly we know that a world is getting tired, and so on. and we do everything in our power, both at the level of hospital funding and at the level of a post notice. The Hospital of Samos took as many places for a notice as they took on the basis of their potential and all the islands of the eastern Aegean. There's nothing else. From there on, there are some islands where we have a problem filling the seats, because they are not chosen by doctors. We've moved people, we've moved them back, but it can't be permanently solved. The positions will be reopened and, as far as I know, the health region will find subsidiary for immediate recruitment. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Tassos, you have the floor for three minutes, to give a second answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u27	Minister, with regard to this particular request for the recruitment of three permanent children, we obviously did not receive a reply. You're saying you're making calls and no doctors are coming. But how can doctors come when they are not permanent and are subsidiary?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u28	These permanent positions are those which we have declared, Mr Tassos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u29	Who were these?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u30	They were eleven permanent posts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you will respond to your denunciation, so that what you say can be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u32	There is another issue, as far as permanent positions are concerned. It's the one-in-a-life specialties. A doctor who respects himself will not go to a department alone, because he cannot meet his obligations, but he cannot live in human life. And that's why it should be twenty-four hours a day, three hundred sixty-five days a year in service. Is it possible in specialties that there's only one doctor? It takes at least three doctors to enable the department to function adequately, with regard to patients - which is the main concern - but also to enable workers to live human beings, to get their licenses and not to work from morning to night. Yesterday, I was at Mytilini Hospital. Do you know what the employee president told me? "I have four nights sleepless. I was service four nights." Because it's not just medical staff, it's also nursing staff, which is really exhausted. As far as the recruitments are concerned, I would like to say that there are also the departures. And I don't know if the balance is positive. It's probably a negative balance. Furthermore - as you have said - there is a burden throughout the country because: firstly, because of the crisis, people do not have the money to go to a private person and drag into the public health system. Secondly, on the islands there is the additional problem of the refugee problem. On the islands like Samos, Mytilini, Chios has increased the visitability - to say this - to hospitals up to 100%. And the staff are the same or less. They are therefore not solutions. Solutions must be made immediately with permanent staff. Here, too, seems to be the policy you're serving. It is the policy that says that in NATO I give 4 billion and that is where I am very open and I have sixty tax exemptions on shipowners and 10 billion of them pay 15 million. This is your health policy. You need to take immediate action. You need to create a medical practice at the hotspot in Samos. Same goes for Mytilini. And there are thousands there, and there's not even a doctor. She needs a permanent in-house in Samos' hotspot. And you should get personal, not only medical but also nursing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Tasso, it's not the general record with everything. In the health field, this government has demonstrated its support both for the functioning of the system through resources and human resources. That is why there is no comparison between the 2015 poorness and what we received from it today. I know - we recognise it - that there are focal problems in various parts of the country, which have nothing to do with what was happening in 2014. Mr Tassos, it is not possible everywhere to say what you are saying, not only because there are no people to go, but because there is not this movement, the turnout of sufferers, which would justify the number. I could theoretically tell you that we should have - with your logic - and three neurosurgeons in Samos. He's not picking up on traffic. For a while there was one, as far as I know. Now, he's reapproved. Also, in many such second line specialties there is no invention of continuous, 24-hour, as it is in pathology and surgery - in the basic specialities, that is - that welcome the large volume of incidents and can come out with fewer than three, based on traffic, the work that exists. On the subject of refugees, I told you before that there was a great call in the air, which for various bureaucratic reasons has been delayed. It's about a thousand five hundred people in Greece. The first "PHILOS" programme was launched for eight hundred people, and six hundred fifty were employed. The rest of the hundred and fifty aren't found. Now, we believe there will be a greater response - because it takes a wider range - so that the intense and steadfast problems in the refugee management areas can really be solved. As far as the rest of the staff are concerned, Samos Hospital and the OAED and the contracts we've made. I mean, Samos Hospital has been strengthened. Also, the Mytilini Hospital has been greatly strengthened. And you know that very well. We've provided the details for the hospital. There is a great increase in staff over the previous year, that is, compared with 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the third, with number 283/21-1-2019, a topical question by the Member of Parliament for Merit of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the Supreme Chamber on the demand of the lenders of fifty public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos', will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. Also, the third question with number 2932/31-10-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Compromise PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance on the subject "Deletion of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium "Venture of the 2nd High School" by Agia Barbara from the Supreme Court" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. We move on to the second debate under No 314/29-1-2019 on the second time question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Restoration (KEFIAP) of Amphichia". Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this question for the CFP of Amphisia is coming far away. We've never forgotten. We thought the SYRIZA government might wait for some action, serve the center and then answer it. Come on, though, for continuing on the footsteps of the previous ones and going from evil to worse. Of course, this is not the first time that the Communist Party of Greece has brought a question about the operation of this centre, led by the health sub-financing and commercialisation policy to complete dismantling, thus paving the way to business activity and the area of physical rehabilitation and treatment. The responsibilities of all governments - and of today - are enormous and time-consuming, because now the shortcomings - as we have said - are enormous and permanent staff. We bring you typical examples. It doesn't work an ambulance. And we are talking about a centre where patients need transport, because they cannot be transported by another means of transport. For example - and this is a full abandonment sample - the call centre, which has been destroyed by lightning, and there are patients who cannot communicate, for some time now. Minister - and we expect you to respond to both the protology and the denology - to tell your partners to call at 2642360115. If they answer, you tell us to know. On the other hand, there is equipment that has been equipped for years - over time as I said - for decades now it has been practically out of use. These are machines which have been purchased with the sweat of the people and which are currently rusting in the warehouses. I don't know if you're aware that you're obviously. These machines were able to operate three wings in this center. When he first started operations, in these three wings there were sixty beds. Today the center is not working at all with "closed hospital" and it is a center that operates as external medical facilities. In this center there were patients from the whole region of northwest Greece, from the Heptanasa and not only. Of course, the fact that there is an elementary function today, as we have said, as external medical services, is due to the self-determination, indeed, of a few staff. You've literally broken it up. You've made it a sieve! You have carried this little staff to the Hospital of Agrinio, as well as to other centers. So it also works with this little staff. And this, in fact, proves the enormous needs that exist in the region. And this is demonstrated not only by the conferences and visits that are in this centre, but also by the visits that exist in the region, such as the CEFI of Agrinio, but also by the private centres. That actually shows these enormous responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u37	The rest in your dentistry, Mr. Moraite.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u38	Please, Mr President, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u39	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u40	As a party we pointed out when the CPVOs were transferred to hospitals, that they would be closed and, unfortunately, we were confirmed. I'll tell my dentistry exactly how the little staff moved. In addition to all others, there are huge problems with regard to building facilities. It's a building where they literally fall wise and lead to a complete abandonment. Minister, we ask you: will there be a direct staffing of this centre so that, in accordance with the needs of it, it can function and, indeed, provide the services that patients and residents of the region need? Secondly, will there be sufficient funding for the repair of the centre? Because if it is not repaired, Minister, very soon, unfortunately, the situation will be irreversible as far as the building infrastructure is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Mr Moraitis will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Moraite, despite the dramatic tones you have used, I would like to answer that when you build a house, you start at the foundations. You build the ground floor, the first floor, and finally you reach the third floor and the fourth floor. And I want to be very specific, because the first ones are first and the second ones are second. When we sat in these chairs three years ago, we had neither underground nor ground floors and had to build the foundations. And we made it. And now it is time for restoration, which has been restored with a conscious political choice from previous governments for many years - not only the recent memoranda - had practically been assigned to the private sector through contracts by the EEAY, which financed the rehabilitation centres, which have escaped like mushrooms and many areas of Greece, covering a need, to say, which was not covered, and which had practically withdrawn the public health system. I would also remind you that in Greece they were built with European programmes of twenty-five CFPs. Between them, both Agrinius and Amphisia. How many of these CFPs have operated all along, Mr. Moraite? You know that? How much did it work? Five. One of them was of Amphisia. In the rest, there were only the wardrobes left. We built the wardrobes, we got the mice and we're done. In some areas it has been working for some time through state-of-the-art programmes. And they had shut down - for the closed hospital I'm saying - before we even take over. It's their turn too, Mr. Moraite, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u43	Am I nervous?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u44	It's their turn, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u45	Let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u46	Of course, it came now because we had to build the foundations that are the hospitals, because we had to build the first floor that is the primary and the whole new plan. And now we're going to the second where restoration and a series of other structures are. What have we announced? That there was a committee led by Mr. Kyrkos, the Commander of the Third Health Region, which presented a complete programme to us. We have changed the draft CFP agencies, precisely to separate them from the hospitals, but I will respond to what you say about funding - with their own self-sacrificing body, whether they are open-label centres or closed-medicine centres. There has been an attempt to strengthen them through permanent recruitment, however, because the many have so far been directed to hospitals and health centres. Now there has been a programme corresponding to the OAED, which concerned young scientists, in which we have been proclaiming for the CFP two hundred seventeen places throughout Greece, and we have had a response to forty-seven. We also have a process of about seventy people from the ancillary staff lists, for which the credit was secured, and a PSF comes out with a hundred and ten doctors, who twenty are physicists for CFPs. From this tank they take both the CIFI in Agrinio and Amphilocia, just to operate in a very short period of time as closed hospital centers, i.e. to activate beds. Some people are serving today. I would add those who say, that is, twenty people from the OAED programme, seven from the subsidiary staff and a physiologist - there are two other doctors - in order to be able to implement a closed-medical programme and, of course, also to develop open-minded hospitals. The same is true in other CFPs, with priority, mainly, in eleven that we want to provide closed hospital services as well. Now we've found the money, now we can do this thing. Second, don't talk about sub-financing the Agrinio Hospital, because I see you getting ready, so I'll answer that in advance. The Agrinio - Istanbul Hospital had received in 2014 from the state budget of 6600,000 euros in 2015, received 7 million euros from the state budget and EEAY, in 2016 it received 11 million euros, in 2017 it took 12 million euros and in 2018, because it had huge cash available, it took 9 million euros. And I will tell you some other figures: on 31-12-2015, the outstanding debts of the Agrinio Hospital were 4.5 million euros, on 31-12-2018 it was 660,000 euros. I think the numbers speak for themselves. On the subject of the call centre, can I tell you something? It's good for you to trade in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u47	I'll see you around. Let go of the syndicate!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u48	But I don't think it's the Minister's job now to build the call center. If that's the case, I'll go back and run the drains. This is the work of the administration, and if it's the way you say it, it's a disgrace to them where it is. I won't say anything else. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u49	Well, thank you, Minister. Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u50	Minister, that's exactly the way it is and you should be aware of the matter. But beyond that, we ask you again. What have you done - and the question is about this center - you over four years? Do you know what you've done? You found a building and a centre of preparedness, and you packed the balls. That's exactly what you did. And as far as Agrinio Hospital is concerned, I didn't ask anything. We have come to other questions, such as the tragic situation there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u51	Leave the tragedy now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u52	Do you know what's going on there, Mr. Polakis? Do you know that patients from the cardiology clinic are transferred from ambulances to Messology Hospital's cardiology? Is that your function? Are you working with the same staff of the old Agrinio Hospital who had a hundred sixty beds, and today they are three hundred sixty? Is that your policy and in this center? However, in any case, we specifically asked you about the centre. Do you know what you've done? Listen. You talked about twenty people. That's what it is. But listen to who they serve. A doctor who is three times a week - Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday - where after you take him Thursday, Friday - you squeeze, patches - at the Hospital of Agrinio and this center doesn't work. Secondly, there are only two administrative officials and they are there. As far as cleanliness is concerned, there are three. One of them has been resigning since June 2018 and the other has moved to the Health Center of Astakos. Listen, Minister. A night guard is seconded to Agrinio Hospital. One of the two artisans is at Agrinio Hospital, the other at the Vonicas Health Center. Nobody at the CPVO. There's a clerk seconded, a worker seconded to the Vonicas Health Center. The only ones there are two nurses, two physiotherapists, one editor, one social worker, and he goes by saying. That's exactly what you did, Minister. The situation is tragic. And I said that you took the doughnut from the previous ones and follow the same policy exactly. As far as needs are concerned, I told you that the needs are enormous. This is also demonstrated through the visitability of both the specific centre and the other centres. And we ask you, Minister: is it possible in such a centre that there is no ambulance? How will a patient be transferred to a truck or must be transported in a way which is not done by another means? This situation therefore continues and is continuing the suffering of the inhabitants, the patients and the bleeding of the people's layers, which are borne by this situation, because they are led to private centres. From there on it is imprinted and the situation and needs that exist throughout the country. We now have about two hundred beds, with regard to restoration, while the needs exceed two thousand beds. Tell us what you have done in recent years and in this area. You've done absolutely nothing to meet those needs. But what is most important is that we do not say so. The Communist Party of Greece does not oppose. Some time ago there was a mass involvement of the actors in the region, where, indeed, they protested and tried to operate this centre. We have no illusions that you will answer. And with what you have said and what you will say in your dentistry, you will not solve the acute problems. That is why we are clearly saying that we must make a case of the region's people's movement, take the case into their hands to fight, so that this centre can function in such a way that, in fact, it meets the needs of the region's world.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u54	I won't say much. I think that on the basis of what you have put into your dentistry, I also answered my prototype. I told you before that part of the staff who have moved somewhere else is to offer more there. No one was moved from the specialties that offer open hospitality, neither the nurses nor the physicotherapist nor the worker, nor the social worker, nor the caregiver, nor the administrative orthopaedic or anyone. Other auxiliary specialties that currently have no 24-hour function, clearly moved to offer other services, where there were needs. To the extent that what we are saying and which we have proclaimed - and you know why they have been made public, and the successful ones have been made public and where these successful ones go - obviously and to the extent necessary, these people will return when this centre becomes a closed hospital. As far as the "flying" to me is concerned, I will not go into the controversy of "Arginio-Mesolong" and what has a better cardiology. I know that cumulatively both hospitals have much more staff than they had three years ago. Yes, Mr. Moraite, that's right. If you don't see it, go count it. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u55	...this is a new hospital...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u56	From that point on, I told you before that the turn for public restoration has come, and now we will. Over the past three years we have supported the ground floor, the foundations and the first floor of the system. Now that we've balanced these, we're going to support them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance Mr.Akaterini Papanatsiou, the first question under number 307/28-1-2019 will not be discussed first cycle of the New Democracy Congressman, Mr. Konstantinos Screkas, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Healthy hotel businesses are at risk of “luketo” on account of VAT allocations.” Also, it will not be discussed, due to an impediment, as a result of the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Akaterini Papanatsiou, the fourth with number 281/21-1-2019, the second time question of the Independent MEP, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of "ENPHY of Building Cooperatives". Finally, it will not be debated, due to an impediment, because of the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Akaterini Papanatsiou, the fifth under No 262-9-1-2019 topical question for the second cycle of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "An extraordinary need for an increase in military service". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, eighteen students and students and four educational attendants from the Bouva Sfakion Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform the students that Parliament has two main responsibilities. One is to legislate. Legislation is under way, which is being discussed, voted and made by the state. The second is the one you are following today, the parliamentary control. The Members of all the parties exercise control over the government through specific procedures. One of these procedures is the timely questions. The Minister comes as Mr Paulakis, the Deputy Minister for Health, and the Members ask their question and get an answer to what they are asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u59	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u60	I would also like to welcome the children in particular, because they are from my home country, Sfakia, from the Bouva Municipal School, where I have been the mayor for four years. Welcome back, guys. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u61	Now students will attend the debate on the first under number 3143/281/7-11-2018 question - requesting the submission of documents of reports and questions by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on "the functioning of the Ophthalmological Clinical Clinic of the General Hospital of Drama". Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Welcome, Minister. We have been waiting for you a long time, as I have heard from other colleagues. I waited three months to discuss a question I tabled in writing in order to have an answer to you. He didn't agree to answer that question. Apparently, you had a workload. I believe that today, after three months, we will have a creative constructive dialogue, because this is one of the most valuable social assets of every human being, and that is his health and you have at least a responsibility for that in my area. Like you perhaps, I myself received too many complaints about the proper functioning of the ophthalmological clinic. Indeed, he's lacking, he's inactive. There are two specialist doctors, an assistant, who is already, because of the pressure, in a disease due to heart problems. The ophthalmological clinic fails or fails, according to complaints. That's why I asked you in writing the questions, waiting to get an answer from you. I have not taken it and I expect you, if necessary today, to answer me, as you will answer for the pathological clinic, because you committed yourself to specific things for the Drama General Hospital in September 2017. Unfortunately, we had no development. On the contrary, you have received numerous complaints in terms of both the medical practitioners of the pathology and medical association and the doctors of the hospital club. We expect you to raise awareness, because we have huge issues. With regard to what you have committed yourself and to cancer patients in me, two years ago, we finally have a positive response to this sensitive issue, which concerns the health of our fellow people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Kyriazidis, in order to put things in place, you are talking about a particular colleague who, as far as I know and as far as I've been aware, has probably never operated. What I know about, and for which I have been informed, to speak frankly - so - is that the Ophthalmological Clinic of Drama Hospital entered into service and started operating cataracts and various other incidents when the subsidiary, mentioned earlier, took over service. This was done on this government. I'm not mistaken about that. This was done on this government. What you are saying is that my colleague is a patient, because of heart problems, I do not know and nobody has informed us about some people, so that we can proceed with a replacement. I know that Drama Hospital Ophthalmological Clinic started doing surgery and serving incidents at this time, after 2016-2017, when this colleague came in. I don't know what happened before. Did you have the same susceptibility? There are a number of complaints, some of which are from two citizens - one of which has been withdrawn, he says. Two complaints from a private doctor in the city, who, if I understood correctly, from the briefing I had, denounces that this doctor refers incidents to other individuals. He denies it. He says he sends them to other hospitals, but also to other private individuals, etc. These complaints have been examined by the primary school, they have gone to the Disciplinary Board of the Health Region and we expect it to make a decision whether to punish him or to acquit him. As you know, this is a process that wants attention, because, if it proves what the private pediatrician denounces, the sentence is great. We can't give you any paperwork unless the procedure is over. That's what the service actors informed me. We're waiting for him to decide. We've talked to Mr. Plomaritis. He told us that he would speed up the performance of any responsibility or acquittal. I'm not interfering with that. It is their job, that is, the disciplinary officer, to check on the basis of both the SAD and what has been done and to decide what they will do. That's the reality. But do not bring the disaster, saying "You know, some years ago, we were an ophthalmological centre and now it's falling apart". Don't go crazy! Because the clinic started operating like you said now. That's what I was told. Now, for the rest, if you want me to answer, you've written it here. Do not add this together, because, as far as the aid for the Drama Hospital and equipment and equipment are concerned, it has been a great deal in recent years - you know it very well - and also from the ESDP programmes and from our own reserve. Secondly, its funding has been greatly strengthened. The subject of the oncological clinic, based on the elements of the movement that we have in general, doesn't get us to do it. I said we'd consider it. I do not exclude it yet - I am honestly telling you - but there are both Kavala and Alexandroupolis. Now, with that logic, we had in every county to have an oncological centre and an oncological clinic. As you can see, this is not possible, based on the population criteria and the criteria of morbidity and everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u66	Minister, the assistant doctor has been away for a long time. You should know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u67	I don't have that kind of information. I'm really talking to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u68	Yes, sir. So I say that this doctor is missing. I didn't say that this clinic was working properly either. You said I said that this clinic was working perfectly. I didn't say that. You said. My attempt was indeed to strengthen ophthalmology by an additional subsidiary doctor, because he was also my son's colleague. He pressed man to come to Drama in order to meet this need and, unfortunately, under the operating conditions that you as Administration and Ministry imposed and despite complaints, now you remembered to check. I wish, even lately, that would happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u69	In July the complaints were made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u70	Because you said not to stick to other issues, here we have dangerous situations. Hands have lifted up for unsafe operation and invention of pathological. That's what the doctors report. You've received the complaints. Unfortunately, with only three special pathologists, a sixty bed clinic, full of 100%, cannot respond. That is why doctors themselves say that they raise their hands, because they cannot guarantee the health of their fellow citizens, even theirs. This has been running for more than a year, Minister. In the sense of subsidiary aid, they went two temporarily and left again. Unfortunately, the situation is painful. You'll tell me, who says that? Your SYRIZA colleague also denounces them. You denounce your weakness and your lack of interest. Unless you want what Mr. King said to happen when he came to Drama at the General Hospital, that is, that Kavala is close. You said it yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u71	Did I say such a thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u72	"Let it work as a health centre," like this you said about the general hospital. I'm talking about Mr. King. As far as heart disease is concerned, I have to tell you, Minister, since the day after tomorrow is the day of Saint-Paul of the carcinoma protector and other patients, that I would expect today, at least on this issue, to do as you committed on 4 September, not for a pathological clinic, but at least for a section of chemotherapy. You haven't done it, Minister, two years ago. And I will tell you that last year - I will also present the papers from the Medical Association - were forced to move to the "God" four and a half thousand suffering and seven hundred cancer patients in Alexandroupolis. If you don't think that's serious, what can I say? I thought you had a sensitivity, I do not see it, of course, because you did not or did not say 'I will send at least one oncologist'. You did not, Minister, and, unfortunately, that is the cruel reality. Unfortunately, our fellow citizens and my fellow citizens are being tortured to some extent too dangerous, as are their relatives. I expected today, in any case because of the day, that you would have something positive to say to us. Unfortunately, I do not see anything positive and once again the issue of health in my country seems to be continuing to torture us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u74	Again, Mr. Kyriazides: From 2015 until today, fifteen qualified doctors, eight additional doctors, forty-three, paramedical, paramedical and other personnel have been assigned to the Hospital of Drama, eight other auxiliary staff other than doctors, forty persons benefiting from the OAED and fifty-two people with fixed-term contracts for cleaning, catering, storage and feeding. This, Mr. Kyriazis, means an additional hundred and thirty - six people at the Hospital. One of the prisoners. Secondly, in 2015 the money that your hospital received was 5,675,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u75	That is what my colleague denounces.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u76	I answer numbers and I don't care who's complaining or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u77	We're full of numbers!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u78	No, you'll get full when you hear the last one. The total money provided in 2015 was EUR 5,675,000. You as a government had predicted to give 4,900,000. We've just raised it with the emergency fund given over the past few months. In 2018 the money provided was 7.5 million euros and on 31-12-2015 your hospital's dues were 3.924.000 and the due on 31-12-2018 were 218,000. Only one of these two numbers understands what's happened here. There is also a detailed list of what has been purchased and what is expected to be purchased with various financial instruments, either from the hospital's own resources or from others, and everything you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u79	With human potential, will the hospital be strengthened?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u80	Listen, don't repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u81	If you don't listen to me. You interrupted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Cryazides, let the Minister finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Cryazides, I have not interrupted you. Numbers reflect realities translated into people’s lives. When you have a hundred plus thirty people, that means other service. When you have a hospital that owed 4 million euros and now owes 200 grand, that means other operating conditions. If you don't mean to understand that, because it doesn't suit you to the general record of destruction, unfortunately, I can't help anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: First, the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development, the Ministers for Home Affairs, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Citizens' Protection, Finance, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Migration Policy, Maritime Affairs and Immigration Policy, as well as the Deputy Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Finance, have today tabled a draft law: ‘I) Clarification of the Protocol No 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Transparency and Finance, with a view to the implementation of the European Union’s 2017/51 Council Decision of 9 February 2002 on the implementation of the European Union Strategy for the Protection of Human Rights and FundamentalFreedoms ,II. Secondly, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, as well as the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, tabled today a draft law: "Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait on the promotion and mutual protection of investments and Roman Communications on the correction of Article 11(2) of the Greek original text". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 28th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We must inform the students that they are following a parliamentary procedure, that is to say parliamentarians are controlling the government by means of a procedure. We are at the stage of the topical questions, where there are Members who are developing various issues and who are waiting for a reply from the Minister, and in this case the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis, is here to answer them. The third is the third with number 312/29-1-2019, a top-level question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece. Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the impact on the functioning of services and working conditions, on the services of the "Venizelou" Hospital from the fire that took place in the former buildings of the University of Crete on 23-9. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis. Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it has been four months since the fire at the student halls in the former buildings of the University of Crete, Knossos Avenue. They were housed instead of renting services of the "Venezelion", such as the office of staff, supplies, computers, protocol, health warehouse, technical services. It has emerged, objectively, the subject of relocation of these services. A wide-ranging meeting of stakeholders took place in September 2018, with the participation of Mr. Xanthos, in finding a solution to the relocation of services. Workers and technical service, on the basis of their experience and know-how, have documented the position for the need for direct transport of firefighting services to the so-called "white" buildings of the University of Crete, located right next to "Venezelio", which are the only appropriate temporary solution until the services are permanently transferred to the new wing of the hospital manufactured. And while there was the commitment by the Minister and by the 7th Ministry of Culture that all the necessary actions will be taken in consultation with the Ministry of Education and Rectorship in order to transform firefighting services into "white" buildings - without preventing the workshops of the Museum of Physical History belonging to the University of Crete - ultimately not only did this legal request come about, but - let me say - you served them the tale of temporary transport in containers. The excuse you put forward in advance for not relocating to white buildings is the University's self-sufficient. Let me tell you that it is not only that you are underfinanced, you are sending the hospitals, you are increasing the cost of life for the people, but even on the issues of your management it distinguishes you with an incredible clandestineness. Is it possible for two health and education ministries to be unable or not to come to an agreement on a not so complex problem involving workers and the health of citizens? Could have solved the problem with a CFD. We need some explanation. Why didn't it happen? Why wasn't this solution chosen? What was the obstacle to selecting this process? The containers, let us, are nothing but a definition of misery, with workers working in unacceptable conditions, such as when they rain and get in the water, they are forced to keep buckets, they are forced to put nylons on the roof, and they are forced to retain the waters that fall, the floors from time to time, and the water is incubated by emerging smells of rot, dirt, etc., there is no insulation, there is a question of transporting the sanitary material, it is in an outdoor area. So there seems to be a very serious problem here, and it seems that there is no more permanent one than that. They're about to make more housekeepers. They await the permission of Archaeology to proceed with the installation of other houses. All this, therefore, promised by the Minister to workers returning to normality in terms of safe and decent work for all, operating infrastructure to support Venizelos and the health of citizens, in our view, is an empty shirt. That proves it. And we ask you, are the workers asking you - I have been there three times, and I went to tell them three times, in connection with the timely deposited and also three times deferred - what measures should you take to temporarily operate the services in appropriate human working conditions, safe for hospital-sensitive materials and directly with the state-owned budget line to ensure suitable permanent areas, with specifications that meet the needs of the services of the ‘Venezelian’ Hospital?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. The Minister, Mr. Paulakis, has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u87	I'll answer right now so you don't bother saying it later. I know the second half, so I'll see you by now. Well, no, we're not just underfunding, but the evidence - because you say you're "supporting", "you don't go personnel", "you don't do, you don't show them in the container" - is as follows: First, in 2015, the ‘Venezel’ Hospital was sponsored with 15,200,000 euros. Others had planned around 14,000,000 and took 15,245,000. In 2016 it took 14,600,000 plus 6,000 euros from EEAY. We're making more than 20,000,000. In 2017, it received 31,000 euros of real money, 16,000 euros of grant and 15,000 euros of EOPY, for the deposit of previous years that were paid back at the time. In 2018 it took 24.500,000 euros, it also has a large cash balance. The dues at 31-12-15 were 14,700,000 euros and are currently EUR 890,000, with cash available within their funds, before this year's entry, 2,800,000. To end this sub-financing tale, etc. One - zero! Secondly, the "Venizelio" on 31-12-15 had a set of servants from all specialties - medical, nursing, otherwise, with OAED programs, with everything, with everything - nine hundred and thirty people. This is at 31-12-15. On 31-12-16 there was a thousand thirty two, on 31-12-17 there was a thousand sixty - three, on 31-12-18 there was a thousand forty - five. Of the ninety-three in a thousand hundred forty-five, there's one thing, I guess. Thirdly, if you have not taken it, the work of expanding Venizelos is progressing very rapidly. Is that why you're not saying anything? Is that right? You say nothing about getting rid of it in cooperation with the region. We've been blocked. With this government, it's over and over, isn't it? And it's over and delivered in 2020. Remember when this is, Manolis? Do you remember when this story has started? Since 2007. Do you remember that? So it started and is now being completed with good cooperation from the Ministry of Health, the Region of Crete and the health region. There on the ground floor and the basement are expected to go the warehouses. We will not build a new building, we will go there the warehouses that will be given for use in the summer of 2019. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] From the very first moment on, we asked for the buildings from the senate. He didn't give it, Manolis, and he's got the university's own self-defence. He didn't give them. The white buildings were asked for and he didn't give them. It gives it a space, which has been given to others, to a local association for activities and the first floor to the Natural History Museum. In those white buildings you're talking about. The university has a self-help. Do you think it's accident that he didn't give it? I don't think so either. But he didn't. From there on, we have 300 thousand euros to finance what they need to do. There are things inside the hospital. They were repaired, bought houses and rented, granted by the Attica Region and the university and entered a rooftop to avoid this problem. It is indeed a temporary solution. We have given EUR 300,000 to do some things that could be done. They were also included in the budget, where there was another delay. But will we build new buildings when these thousands of squares end next door and relocate there? The buildings of the "Venezelios" that took fire were rented there. They'll be transferred to their own buildings. What problems exist - like what you mentioned, which you have done and a little melodramatic - is being solved by the technical service. There is no safety problem in the health material that is being handled. Financing, so that they can do whatever temporary repairs they need, they have it. It is understood that a large part of the services will be transferred to the new wing buildings which will be used as early as 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u89	Minister, you did well and you started with the sub-financing issues. Many times when someone has remorse on a matter, they always try to start with it. Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u90	No, my best man. I don't have any remorse on that. We're proud.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u91	Because you told me about the "Venezelia" Hospital and I reserve to see the revenue budget for 2019 more well and we - I will give you a fresh thing. A few hours ago the income budget of the University General Hospital of Heraklion shows an increase in revenue for 2019 of 4%. Where do they come from? Have you seen the revenue budget of the University General Hospital of Heraklion? So I tell you that grants from the regular budget are reduced by 15% compared to 2018. Of the 41 million fell to 35 million 760 thousand. At the same time, revenue from the business activity of the hospital is increased by 38%. That's from 25 million to 34 million 700 thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u92	Say the number again!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u93	At the same time, the revenues from this afternoon's medical service are increasing by 12.5% from 3.5 million to 4 million. So this is the underfunding policy. Now if you're doing tachychisms, if you're trying to retreat, if you're trying through business and blackmailing patients' hands in the pocket to present revenues, that's another matter. In any case, we are judged by the people. Let's go down. One-one, as you said. The "Venezelia" Hospital, in addition to the issue of sub-financing, is also facing a lack of nursing, medical, administrative and other personnel. You are presenting us with an incremental picture of the staff of the "Venezel" Hospital, but the reality is quite different. It is about the ability you have, in the context of urban management, to make a stir of the difficulties that exist, but in the course of the course the problems that are encountered are multiple. And everyone, of course, judges us. The government's attitude to the problem of relocation shows the way and philosophy that is more and more confronted with public health, starting with a basic principle, the European Union's strategy, according to which health is a cost to the people, workers are a cost. That is why they end up with all the government's measures in emblematic and temporary solutions, that is to say to cover the problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You said you gave EUR 300,000 to deal with the problem. Didn't even bother you under what conditions do seventy workers are called on to work under seventy workers who are stacked like mice in the unacceptable settlements? And this without giving a definitive solution. On the contrary, the situation is perpetuating. I told you they're preparing new houses. They're building a roof.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u94	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u95	Hey, is that it? Is that a temporary solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u96	Until they're transferred to the new wing. What do you want us to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u97	Even if the new hospital ward is completed, after two years, as you said, uh, it's not temporary. It's not temporary after two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u98	This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u99	It's been so long already. After two and a half years, 'if' and 'if' will not be able to dismantle the main building because it is not simple to transform these services only. There's congestion between clinics and services in the main building. With regard to the new building, which is welcome, the previous governments had to complete it and have their own responsibility and delay. However, the need is growing at a rapid rate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u100	Say "bravo" that the SYRIZA government did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u101	And you're coming now and you're saying that 2020 will be ready. I mean, we should applaud you. You're going to cut off the ribbon as well, I understand, in 2020, in the new building.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u102	Two a week. You see away!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u103	So I will tell you that the new wing does not cover all the needs, unfortunately. I remind you that the Venizelou Nursing School is looking for a building. And she wants to go to the new wing. Everyone's right. Of course, the demands, everything, are fair, you just whistle indifferently in meeting all needs. And should I tell you something else? The contract was concluded with four security workers, i.e. they were fired on 4 December 2018. Eighty-sixteen block workers were fired as soon as the day before yesterday on January 31st. The only planning of permanent posts is six employees, when dozens of people have retired, dozens of others have to serve with a permanent employment relationship and meet all the needs of the hospital. About the ICUs, you made one or two beds. Now it's less than two beds. Do you know why? Because they're on fixed-term contracts. The workers are leaving, you're closing the beds. Take the workers back, open the beds. That's what I told you at first you were acting like a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u104	Good. Close, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u105	I shall conclude, Mr President. Even non-urgent surgery for cholecystectomy, bubonic, umbilical, is more than a year ahead of waiting. That's your policy. At the same time, you go to the Moires and sell seaweed for silk ribbons. And when you were interviewing Moires, the patient was on the farm side, because the ambulance was missing. That's your policy. And you cut the ribbons in PFAGNE with these communal tricks, because Niarchus gave you two machines. Shouldn't he have given them? Well, after he gave it up, he gave it up. But not go cut out the ribbons for the Niarchus machines when your policy is underfunding and subscribing the home hospitals. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u106	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u107	They want the workers to solve them immediately, now, yes, with the Ministry of Education. Untie it. What does "self-inhabited" mean? The Prime Minister should intervene at the bottom. Two ministers, two emblematic ministers, let us decide to move to the white buildings, have the understanding for the museum of natural history, and have everyone covered by 2020, where they will be transferred to the new building - if they are transferred there too - and in any case be temporarily solved now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u109	And, Mr President, one final question to the Minister: will the hospitals, Mr Polakis, give any reserves they have - as the government obliges the OTAs - to the Bank of Greece? It's going to be very interesting to see what you're going to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u111	I begin to see, Manolis, after this speech, that you are using in your speech an opposition that reminds us of this band here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u112	Leave that poem now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u113	I'll answer that now. I will say two - three examples from Manolis' speech, not another. They're polite in what you're saying - where a big piece is accepted, it's your political perception, but I'm gonna undo it one by one - some lies that you, at least, hadn't gotten used to. You flew on a small scale: "Go and cut ribbons at the university with two machines that Niarchus gave". It's a lie, Manolis. Why do you say so? One machine is the radiation therapeutic that Niarchus gave in the context of donation, and the other is funding from the EIF of national resources - not the ESDP - of the Ministry of Health with 570,000 euros. And I've said it, and the children of the union who were out there, which means that this line you gave them to say, because it was a political KK. That's a lie. Why do you reproduce it? I answered it out there in front, taking the dough out of their hand. Why are you reproducing it today? Second lie, and I'm not expecting it, and I'm getting pissed off. You're saying I went to the Moires, where I went now that we can, now that we've got them, now that I've checked that it's really like this, as the mayor and the others were saying, that half of the building is not being repaired. We said we would put 2.5 million, 1 million in Crete, once they found a plot to build the new health center. Is that a lie? What's the lie you threw, though? That at the time you were there, we carried a patient to the cart because there was no "the" ambulance. There was no “the” ambulance, there was no“the” ambulances. It's two on shift. They were both missing at the same time. At that time - and because you're watching a number of colleagues - Kyulpalis posted that he was a rescuer outside the EKA. Rescue out of service saved this man. And that's not what you're saying, but you're talking about the sidewalk that Augias says. Look, if you hang out with the monster, you look like it. And it's not because Peletlidis - so we can take it a little like that, because there are various signs - he didn't come to Development. But yesterday he went to Mitsotakis. Why? Let's go to the other ones now. I told you some evidence from the budget. You're gonna force me to tell you a mandarin.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u114	What you're saying is a big lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Moratis, don't get upset, because, look at you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u116	Look, when confrontation takes place in political, ideological terms, so I'll answer. I will respond in political, ideological terms. When confrontation takes place with lies hidden artificially, I'll answer hard. Listen, Manolis. I'm sorry, but you don't understand what you're reading. You read the budget to me. I've answered that many times. Why has state funding been reduced by the General Accounting Office of the State? Are you watching me, Manolis? I'm answering to you. So why did it fall? You also went out in the beginning of 2018 and said that state funding is being reduced in hospitals. Look, the state has two pockets, one is the State General Accounting Office, which is the redistribution through taxes, the state in the health sector, and the other pocket is EEAY and the insurance funds, the workers' insurance contributions. What you read, the more than ten of the private business activity, is the revenues from EEAY. They say it: "The CENTREs that EPPY pays."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u117	From the insured's pockets.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u118	I've told you many times, and you don't mean to understand it, that you have an ideological ideological stumbling-up of an uncircumcised height. When the sum of the funding of the State Accountancy and EEAS has been growing in recent years, you have been stuck "like the widow" and said: "But the General Accounting gives less". But the other one's given five times. What are we gonna do with it? Massouria? Don't move your hand, Mr. Tasso, because in 2014 Samaras gave 1,000,000 to hospitals, one billion to fifty, and the EEAY gave 300,000,000 euros. He gave 30! Closed. Then you didn't ask. Now, this year, which will give 800,000,000 to the General Accounting Office and 700,000,000 to the EEA, what's bigger? 800 and 700 or 1 and 30? Don't you see it? Don't you understand? It's so difficult mathematics and repeat it and repeat it - repeat red thread tied and de and again de the same. And I'd proved it to you fifteen times and insist on humiliation. I told you in 2014 EUR 300,000, in 2015 EUR 300.000, and we from EEAS were given to hospitals in 2016 EUR 400.000, in 2017, EUR 580,000,000, in 2018, EUR 660,000, 000. Real money, performance. Don't you understand that the sum is higher? What are you talking about? You're telling me that the 3,000,000, the 3,500,000 of this afternoon's practice - which is not just afternoons, it's also foreign hospitals, it's rents or other revenues - will be 4,000,000. Slowly, "Fatme's lost in Geni Jamie"!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u119	Revenue from this afternoon's medical service, he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u120	You see the other one and it goes up hundreds of millions and goes on to say the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u121	Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u122	I shall now conclude, Mr President, just have to answer. I didn't like it now because I didn't like the use of these sophisticated lies in the other conversation. As far as I'm concerned, on the track...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u123	Rescind what you said. They're provocational!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u124	No, I'm not revoking anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u125	They're provocational.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u126	Yeah, big shots, all right. Well, I don't do provocations, I'm straight. I'm provocational and I'm not doing it, I'm straight. But Manolis can't lie to me that Ausgeakis would throw away. Okay? You can't do that. Well, as far as the section of "Venezelio", what has to be done is done. I can't order the senator to do it. And you know what's going on there, don't you? I did not say that 2020 would be delivered. I said in the middle of 2019 that the basement and ground floor will be provided to make this transfer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u127	Let me, Mr President, take the floor for restoring the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u129	Wait a minute, I'll give you the floor. First of all, Minister, at the heart of your speech you said something that I would like to call it off because it does not honor us all. You said: 'like the widow'. It's a stereotype that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u130	I withdraw it, Mr President! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u131	Thank you. I will give the floor only to Mr Synthraki and not to Mr Moraitis, because he is not among those who are asking questions about this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u132	I think that the issues have been answered, Mr President. Don't open a dialogue now, because I'm going to have to answer that later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u133	Wait a minute, let Mr. Synthrakis say something. Here you go, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, Mr Paulakis has chosen to follow a belligerent tactic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u135	I'm the gebellist?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u136	The larger the lie the more incredible it becomes following the line of various Syrian trolls supposedly presenting the Mayor of Patras, Mr. Peletidis, at a newspaper event, the newspaper "GOMI" along with the president of the New Democracy. It's a lie. He's untrue. After all, it's a newspaper event. Mr Peletides cannot judge who he is going and who won't go. And he was sitting next to Mr. Katsifara. That's to be restored. It has nothing to do with this lie expressed by Mr. Paulakis But I will also tell him a mandarin: “SYRIZA's court, the ladder came up with lies and more. I want to see how he treats the ladder backwards." Because that's your policy. It is a policy that has really thrown health and the workers together to the tartars by increasing the insurance contributions to the EEAY and making free scars with the EEAY. Because what he says about business is indeed from EEAS, but it's employee insurance contributions. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u138	Speaking of which you referred to Peletidis, as he goes to an event that he obviously knows is Mitsotakis there,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u139	Why did the Katsifras go?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u140	...he should have come when the development conference was held, which was institutionally obligated. And secondly, a mandarin, because with the finances, but Mother Mary, there is a problem. Get an accountant to keep you books, the shop will close and it will be a sin!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of Wednesday 21 November 2018, Thursday 22 November 2018, Friday 23 November 2018, Monday 26 November 2018, Wednesday 28 November 2018, Friday 30 November 2018, Monday 3 December 2018, Thursday 6 December 2018 and Friday 7 December 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u142	The minutes of the meetings of Wednesday 21 November 2018, Thursday 22 November 2018, Friday 23 November 2018, Monday 26 November 2018, Wednesday 28 November 2018, Friday 30 November 2018, Monday 3 December 2018, Thursday 6 December 2018 and Friday 7 December 2018 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-04-S1-commons.u143	With the consent of the House at 19.43 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, February 5, 2019 at 18.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
