ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 28 January 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 287/21-1-2019 topical question of the Member of the State of New Democracy, Mr. Dimitrios Stamatis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: 'Flying war aircraft'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 283/21-1-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the supreme building required by the lenders of fifty of the public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos". 3. The Question No 292-22-1-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, concerning the "impact on the operation of services and working conditions in services of the "Venezelio" Hospital from the fire in the former buildings of the University of Crete on 23/9. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 288/21-1-2019 by MP Achaias of New Democracy Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘People and institutions are replacing the state's role in strengthening the EMCDDA’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 289/22-1-2019 topical question by the MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "State of authoritarianism and repression. When will the catapult stop?’ 3. The 281/21-1-2019 topical question by Independent MEP II Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Environmental cooperatives". 4. The 271/14-1-2019 topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Health, regarding the radio medicine. 5. Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 6. The Question by Mr Stavros Tassos, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, with number 276/15-1-2019, on the subject: "Very serious problems in the General Hospital of Samos". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 262/9-1-2019 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Emergent need to increase the military service". 8. The Question No 272/14-1-2019 by MP Drama of New Democracy. Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Creation of the Branch of the Branch of Short Hospital of Oncological Clinics at the University of N. Drama’. 9. The 27715-1-2019 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Amphichia". 10. The 254/7-1-2019 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Proclamation against the commander of the Kilkis Hospital for the rape of a worker". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 2932/31-10-2018 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Deletion of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of Nikos" from the Supreme Court." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Health about the "return of funds, which were retained in the context of availability, in a hundred ninety-seven hospital workers in Thessaloniki. 3. The 3143/281/7-11-2018 question and application for documents from the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister of Health concerning "the operation of the Ophthalmological Clinical Clinic of the General Hospital of Drama".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Final Agreement on Dispute Resolutions described in United Nations Security Council Resolutions 817 (1993) and 845 (1993), the End of the 1995 Interim Agreement and the Establishment of a Strategic Partnership between the Parties". The President of SYRIZA Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos will be the first to take the floor. Please, Mr Papadopoulos, there is a Bureau decision, because about a hundred speakers - ninety-six, in fact - are missing, unfortunately, in five minutes today, so that everyone can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, twenty-four years after the interim agreement and just on the fourth anniversary of our victory, the political system is called upon to decide, if the new data in the neighbouring country, in the Balkans, in the flammable Mediterranean, in the extreme right-wing concepts and in neoliberalism, from the doctrine of the ruthless Financial Disciplinary Pact for a united Europe, allow us to do the great daring, the 'Big Bang', of resolving long-term differences with Macedonia and ratifying an international agreement to consolidate a strategic partnership between the two countries, which has been made under UN supervision. Some say not to ratify it, because it is harmful, enduring, shameful, suppressing, to betrayal. VMRO, Ivanov, Gruevski, said the Prespecies Agreement. They consider it treacherous for their own national interests. It is a betrayal of both countries on the basis of logic that there can be no one. You understand the ridiculous argument. That is why the most serious are said to be harmful or that it was done in order to promote the interests of NATO, the European Union and the imperialists and that it allows the seamers to perpetuate themselves. And yet, the Prespecies Agreement has now become possible, because Macedonia has become a leadership that has no perverted, no threat or claim from our country, which has brought down statues, falsely written names, falsifying symbols, flags. He canceled historian scavengers, cultural counterfeiting, wrestling. She agreed to change her constitutional name, recognised by a hundred forty countries and called "North Macedonia". And he did it because it is socialist ideology, European orientation, contrary to nationalism and their great idealism. You say that there is no "North Macedonia". And where is the monastery? 48% of ancient Macedonia where is it? Antonis Samaras, to compete with the extreme right, said "Macedonia is Greek". Meaning? This whole historic part of ancient Macedonia where is it? Or it falsifys the story, because it suits him or becomes aware of "To weapons, weapons, to take Skopje". Macedonia, Northern Macedonia, was Greek, as were the small Asian coastlines, Izmir, Istanbul, the northern continent. But Greece is a peaceful country. There's no amputation. He knows that a real threat to our national interests is Turkish majesticism, the concept of 'blue homelands', for controversial Greek islands, for 'grey' AEZ. He wants to make a Muslim bow, squeeze the Russian plans in the region, which do not go hand in hand with our national interests. We're going to renegotiate, New Democracy says, so we can get a better deal than the one Kotzias did with Demetrov. It can't be better. Zafe made it clear to him, Matthew Nimitz. Who are you going to do with? Without the UN presence? With your allies in the European People's Party, VMRO? The ones who will bring up the statues and the counterfeiting? The Embassy Agreement changes the image of world public opinion. It allows Greek intellectuals and those of the Diaspora to talk about ancient Macedonia, about our culture, about Macedonia and Greek Great Alexander, Philip and all our history. Allows Macedonian University, Macedonian Airport to us, in our own Macedonia. It makes Thessaloniki a true cultural, commercial, tourist, economic capital of the Balkans. It's becoming an energy, a transit centre. Their language is South-Slavic. Their citizenship is citizens of Northern Macedonia. They're North-Macedonians. ‘Not everything is clarified in the Agreement’ means ‘not in the Financial Communication’. And yet perhaps in other circumstances there could be a better deal. In these historical data we cannot exist and this is a reality, which will become clearer and clearer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you too, Mr Papadopoulos, for you have been extremely time-consuming. We shall proceed with the next speaker, Mr Ioannis Stephos, MP of SYRIZA. Please, Mr. Stefos, imitate Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u5	Sure. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing for the fifth day the Prespecies Agreement, an agreement which is taking place within one - I would say - an excellent climate, despite all the controversy, of course, of all efforts to intimidate, the stubbornness of new Gotzamanis who have suddenly reappeared in political life with threats to the lives of SYRIZA Members, but also in the perpetualness of every Cassandra who has prophesyed all the suffering, to a rally of far less than expected by the organizers and emblems as well as the fascist and nazi features. The agreement goes beyond the national line, the national line agreed in 2008 on a government of Karamanlis, with Ms Bakoyannis Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Meimarakis Minister for Defence and with the agreement of the Head of PASOK Mr Papandreou. Restricted geographical definition as ‘Macedonia’ erga omnes. This national line our government not only honoured it in the Prespecies Agreement but also took it further. It ensured the evacuation of every perpetrator, managed to change every name that referred to ancient Greek Macedonia from roads, squares and airports and ensured the separation between Greek history and culture from its neighbours. The Civic Opposition accuses us of having accepted us through the Macedonian language and Macedonian ethnic agreement. A more stressful charge could not deliver us. The Macedonian language has been recognised by the UN since 1997 as the government of Constantine Karamanlis. Furthermore, the agreement succeeds in calling it Slavic and ranking it into the family of southern Slavic languages, which was not there before. Macedonian ethnicity doesn't recognize the agreement. For those who trade for the excellent knowledge of English, the term "nationality" refers to the Greek term citizenship or citizenship rather than ethnicity. Furthermore, this is also certified by Article 2(2) of the Neighbourhood Constitution, which states that citizenship does not mean ethnicity. What exactly do the passports of the Greeks of Istanbul or the Cypriots show? Nationality or citizenship? National, obviously. Let's talk about the aluterism. Article 49 of the constitution of the neighbours provided: "The state provides for the situation and rights of the Macedonian people in neighbouring countries and for migrants from Macedonia. It assists in their cultural development and promotes it.’ As a consequence of the Ambassadors' Agreement, Article 49 was repealed. But that's not all. A number of articles have been added as a result of the agreement on the country's constitution, which clarify the respect for the sovereignty of neighbouring states and that you have not seen the neighbouring countries. Therefore, all objections raised by the Opposition on this matter are fictitious and hypocritical, because none of what it claims is recognised by the agreement, at least none of what New Democracy has previously recognised, and that is why the agreement has met the rabies resistance and reaction from the opposition of the neighbouring country. He's doing it. If that is the case as New Democracy claims, can both oppositions be yelled and chanted twice? If one country loses, how is it possible for the other one to lose? If one of us betrays, how does the other betray? If one goes down, how does the other go down? These are reasonable hearings, which only opposition can give answers to us, but which will not be convincing. It will not be convincing, because all its representatives who are now colluding the agreement have in the past voted in favour of the complex name. From Mr. Mitsotakis and Mrs. Bakoyannis to Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Simitis and Mr. Avramopoulos. Within the framework of the exercise of opposition without principles and without limits, within the framework of our government, in the hatred of SYRIZA, who - in New Democracy - stole the chairs, without the famous 'left parenthesis', the agreement is a good opportunity for voting, for micro-party politics and for political micro-purpose. Because since Venizelos it is Mr Tsipras who has come to give a solution to a national issue and indeed a solution with the best conditions for our country. No one else dared, because the mob was reared by politicians, journalistic interests, publishing interests, priests, far-right stalls, and all kinds of hammering factor. This hypocrisy and propaganda affecting a part of the Greek people, who are rightly concerned, but who are not right-wing and nationalist, must end. The Greek Macedonia is Greek and no one negotiates it. But Macedonia has never been Greek, and it will never be there, and this is demonstrated by the school manuals, but also by military maps. Most of the school manuals from 1951 to at least 1985 show - and I put it in the Minutes - the following: 'Today it is not all Macedonia in Greece but only the southern part of Greece. Bulgaria and Yugoslavia own its northern parts.’ Geography of Greece, 1st High School, 1969. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Stefos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our country must become a pillar of stability in the wider region, not only in words but in practice, and the Prespecies Agreement lays the foundations for this in the Balkans for a region of peace, stability and development for the benefit of all the Balkan peoples. The Embassy Agreement also raised another matter. Who really carries the Greek flag in his heart and who on the horse like animals on the back? Who puts the national interest above the party? Who's the patriot and who's the patriot? And the Left has proved many times in the modern history of this country, who is a patriot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u6	Thank you again for the consistency of time. I would ask Mrs Rapti, Member of the New Democracy, to come to Step for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister Zaev friend of Prime Minister Tsipras. I read his statement: "The change in the name of the country in Northern Macedonia causes unpleasant feelings to the citizens of Macedonia, because it is a fact that we are the northern part of this historic region". He says Mr. Zafe is supposedly not claiming our story by the Skopje. And it continues: "We don't become North-Macedonians, because it is clearly defined that we are Macedonians speaking Macedonian language." That is what Prime Minister Zaev said. There is, I think, no more critical in the modern political history of Greece than this agreement called for the Greek Parliament to ratify, an agreement that deletes in twenty pages a millennium history that gives nation, language and name and opens up the ambiguity of the problems of the next generations. A disgusting transaction with a Greek signature final and irrevocable that will add to the UN a new state, which will now automatically bear the name "Macedonia". And the North, unfortunately, will not be a nominal detail, but the beginning of a new more active pervertism which we will soon see grow within the walls. He wonders how the Macedonian issue with the Left Government happened to be resolved. Why Government Left? Is it because he has reduced national reflexes, loose national conscience? Why is it government's sound of foreigners or simply - lighter accountability - incapable? It seems as if all the big issues, national and domestic, have been included in a contraction by the so-called "Left and Independent Greek S.A.", which wants to create a fait accompli and bind the country to non-return-free choices. Ladies and gentlemen, if the so-called Prespecies Agreement is ratified by Parliament, the golden pages of world history written by the Macedonians Philip, Alexander and Aristotle will be painted black. The defeat of Greek foreign policy is responsible for names. Among the willing Greek and foreign leaders who have without shame visited Greece to exert the same pressure they have exerted on Skopje, there is no chance in the Balkans. Never had our national sovereignty ever been so humiliated. It was also meant to be a work of supposedly left-wing and supposedly independent. Have you thought, ladies and gentlemen, of 'yes', what will the consequences of your vote be? Do you feel proud, created at our northern border by a state that will carry the name "Macedonia" exclusively? Do you feel comfortable with the Macedonian Prime Minister talking about Macedonian nation, Macedonian language and Macedonian army? Have you realised that your signature creates a dangerous counterfeiting of history, which will create huge issues of salting at the expense of our country? Do you feel safe to ratify an agreement that is definitively uninvited, since whatever happens, will data be created that cannot be overturned? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nimic spoke in public the day before yesterday, if his miserable success is lost. He even threatened us that if the agreement was not passed, there would be consequences. So we tell him that if it is voted there will be consequences. But that's indifferent to him. He won't live in our country. There's no reason he won't remain invincible. With the agreement he signed, he opens the way for new problems in the Balkans, where he will perhaps regain the ombudsman. What Mr Nimic is certain and hides is that, with the agreement, the country will have lost all emblems of resistance to a general plan of extinguishing history, faith and ideals. At the same time, he will open up the appetite of other neighbours, claim from a defeated and poor Greece, and if he respects himself, he should know that his role stopped when the parties agreed. There is no precedent for an independent and neutral ombudsman, who publicly pushes a people to accept an agreement. So let Mr. Nimic leave his wicked ones. To me, it's a simple matter. It was always simple: Macedonia is only Greek. No agreement termed "Macedonia", no retreat to our history. I would like to close, expressing my grief for the dismay of this country, for the place you brought her cannot resist, surrender and deliver. It is a national stubbornness that we have never met. And you know what? I'm really sorry that you're going to go through history as the ones who sold Macedonia. With their surprise, the historians will see in the future that our country once gave us a much more struggle, not to give the Danes the name "feta" for their white cheese, rather than to give the name "Macedonia".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u8	Please finish, Mrs. Rapt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. You can, then, be free to be ashamed. We did everything we could to prevent this disgusting agreement from being signed. We tabled a motion of censure. Mr. Kammenos took the responsibility of failing the procedure, and sent his partner to the tent of the Prespecies. The people called for a referendum, for them to decide for Macedonia's fate. Rejected by a government with a state mentality. Even at the very last moment people feel that an intervention by the President of the Republic could save us from this painful national humiliation. Who would have thought that it would take a day when the eternal lyrics of "Macedonia unhearder, you are Greek and you will be Greek, Greek the tribute", would be erased. God put his hand on what is, of course, how it will happen. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Please Mrs Vlacho, MP of the Golden Dawn, take the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement in my hands, which came to me a few hours ago from the Halkidiki Bar Association. At the same time, all law-abiding associations in Macedonia and Greece have made similar announcements. I'll read it to you: ‘The Board of Directors of the Halkidiki Bar Association held an extraordinary meeting today on 23 January 2019 in the light of Parliament's meeting on the bill of ratification of the Prespecies Agreement, which is a major national issue. In particular, the members of the Board consider that Parliament's decision should be taken by an increased majority of its three-fifths or by a positive opinion of at least one hundred and eighty Members, pursuant to Article 28(2) of the Constitution, since the Government's proposal to the National Representation is that of voting by a simple majority of fifty of a Member. The members of the Board also consider that, on such a large national issue, the present Government should submit the agreement to be approved by the Greek people by means of a referendum.’ Such announcements have been made throughout Greece by the lawyers. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sotiria Vlachos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Talking about the ratification of this agreement, I think it would be extremely useful to go back to the birth and evolution of the sceptic claims, as well as to the occasional domestic supporters of these views, so that it is finally clear that we have come to discuss today within the Greek Parliament, an issue that would be incomprehensible even a few years ago. In the period of 1904-1908 Greeks and Bulgarians clash in Ottoman Macedonia, trying to determine their future borders in the top of the struggle, the ethnic witness Paulo Mela. Hellenism will make all its powers available to Macedonia, believing strongly in the fair fight. Despite the hesitation of the political leadership of the time, a multitude of Greeks will come to die fighting in the sacred land of Macedonia. The statusal changes of the New Yorks will end the Macedonian struggle, but the blood spilled will be fruitful shortly later. World War II will be a unique opportunity to promote the JRC's dark plans in the pretext of fighting the conquerors. They will prepare for the occupation of power in Greece. Their plans include the Sovietisation of Macedonia. This time, however, from the Serbs' side is Josip Bros Tito, who puts the issue on a completely new basis: Recognizes Macedonian ethnicity and Macedonian state entity for the first time in the framework of united Soviet south-slavia. It is obvious that the somnolence of Croatian Croats, tried and managed to undermine the Bulgarians in this way, taking advantage of the original Bulgarian slogan "Macedonia in Macedonia", spoke of a Macedonian nation. However, the collapse of the world communist paradise and the bloody dissolution of the then Yugoslavia created a new state motif, which had never existed in the historical past of the Balkans, a state of the riddle, with no ethnic basis, a mortal make-up of Marxists, which sought a place in history. It's questionable if there's another historical analogue in the world. This state was inhabited by people who grew up from Serbian custody, learning that they are makedonski. Most of them spoke of a Bulgarian dialect and had a similar conscience, while the rest of them were swaying towards Albania. Under such circumstances it was evident that his days were counted. A solution had to be found. And he was found. With the full support of international Zionism - see Soros - a bar of recognitions of the form called "Macedonia" began. Today this state is nothing but an international protectorate, a charming of world interests that fights for an identity, an identity that it has and wants to steal from Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With your tolerance a minute, Mr President. It requires it to be called "Macedonia" and claims a past that does not belong to it. But whatever has happened, it is clear that the borders of the states are determined at all times by the will of the nation to defend them with its boobs. No geographical limit and no treaty is stronger than the blood of the race's defenders. The Greek blood spilled for Macedonia is a river deep. No Prespecies Agreement and no opportunistic parliamentary majority can alter history, can cancel the blood of the heroes and witnesses who have watered the sacred soils of Macedonia. I, as a nationalist MP of Macedonia of the Prefecture of Halkidiki, MP of the Golden Dawn, will bronze once again: "Macedonia is Greek and belongs to Greece". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. We shall proceed with Mr Kedicoglou, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to say that I strongly condemn the attacks and threats against Members. I know the feeling well. It's very bad. My family had been targeting assaults on molotovs and jazzies when I was in the Samara government. Violence has no place in our political life, it has no place in our democracy. The New Democracy's firm position is to condemn violence wherever it comes from. I hope everyone is aware of it now. I also hope the Prime Minister has reviewed his well-known statement of good and bad molotovs, depending on whether you throw them or accept them. There's no good and bad violence. Every form of violence will find us against each other. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Here we are, and we've all heard of them. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an agreement that the government negotiated in secret. Which led to the resignation of two Ministers, including the architect of the agreement, with heavy intersections. A blurred agreement since we don't even have the Skopje constitution for a full picture. For the preamble not to talk about. We'll never see. A bad deal that has angered the vast majority of the Greeks. An agreement that comes tsatre - pause for ratification in the House with unprecedented procedures. A deal blindly. We don't know what we'll find in front of us. Amoralism Memorial? Astronomical occultism, cynical austerity, a totalitarian austerity? The Greek language begins to prove poor, in order to describe governmental performance in the service of the doctrine "the party purpose sancifies every means even tear gas to women". In the four years that you have been in the government, you have made many destructive choices, but this is far the most destructive. It's not just what you're doing. You are bringing a nationally harmful agreement, which poses many risks to the future. It's why you're doing it. You believe that this is how you serve your narrow party interest, limiting as you think, your upcoming election crash. But it's how you do it. By respecting the democratic values and principles of parliamentarianism. What, how and why? How do you do it, and why do you do it? This tripartite clearly illustrates the spirit of your tactical persecution. What are you doing? You bring an agreement nationally harmful. An agreement which, in fact, you have not negotiated, you have not won anything and you have given it all, even the ones that the other side had not come up with in the past, such as identity and language. You did not take advantage of any of the advantages that the favourable international situation gave Greece with the first time factor. Skopje was raped. Greece had no reason to rush. However, Greece appeared as a stepping-up with the negative consequences of the negotiation. Why are you doing this? Why did you suddenly catch a premiere to close the Skopje? Greece's position in international organizations was consolidated. In Bucharest, strong foundations had come in. Now you have already opened the way for Macedonia's accession to NATO. Attention. This agreement binds Greece to give green light to every Macedonian accession chapter in the European Union without any opposition, even if it has nothing to do with the agreement. Even for agricultural policy. The answer to why you are doing this is that you have made the dangerous decision to work on a national issue to use it to your party interest in the Greek political scene. After all, both the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister have said so publicly at the outset that they consider Skopje to be an ideal opportunity to reorient the political scene. Extremely problematic and dangerous is the full recognition of Macedonian identity in the neighbouring country. Article 7 states that the terms "Macedonian" and "Macedonian" shall describe the territory, the language, the population and their characteristics with their own history, culture and heritage in Skopje. I'm sorry, that's not a citizenship definition. It's a Macedonian ID and you're giving it to the Skopje. So you recognize Macedonian language, a nonexistent language, since in Skopje they speak a Bulgarian dialect. It is no coincidence that Bulgaria, which recognises Macedonia, does not recognise Macedonian language or ethnicity. In addition, Greece thus places itself in an identifiable conflict between its neighbours. Not only do you not close the differences with Skopje, but you also have a question with Bulgaria without winning anything. That's a great success. In conclusion, I should like to stress that Article 7 also has historical losses. Yes, although Skopje is recognized as having nothing to do with ancient Greek history, Macedonia's history does not stop in 146 BC. by the Roman occupation. The rest of her story we give it to the Skopje? The Macedonian dynasty of Byzantium wasn't Greek? Kingdom II was the Bulgarian finally? Even more damaging is the consequent ownership of Cyril and Methody than the Skopje. He has speeded up his proclamation already, Mr. Zaev. Ladies and gentlemen, the Christianity of the Slavs was one of the greatest achievements of the Greek spirit. He gives us prestige to this day, and you disown him. Soon you will tell us that the Slavs have been Christian on their own. The worst thing, of course, is that you want to convince us that for twenty-eight years Greece has been asking for a change in the name of Skopje so that their residents can be called the Macedonians. You're defending a history of dangerous error, because you think it's of interest. You are not in favour of a father, but you are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much. We shall proceed with Mr Consola, Member of the New Democracy. Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the Members of the government-in-Office of the Council have welcomed Mr Kedicoglou's position on the condemnation of violence, which, of course, if we look back at the near future, they had not done in similar cases at that time as members of the Civilian Opposition. And I want to believe that lessons are being learned and there is a collective consciousness in the course of time at least on key issues we could get together. Mr President, Mrs Raptie informed me earlier that she was Osios Macedonius yesterday. Christian celebration. In other words, Hosios Macedonian had his passions these days, and we also raised them in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u16	He lived elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u17	Yes, Mr. Amanatidis. Unfortunately, I did not imagine that, from this step, Minister, many colleagues of the government majority will rejoice and be characterized as national proud by an agreement which pledges thousands of years of history to the Skopje, condemning our historic future with the empowerment of language and identity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u18	After the Macedonian blessed her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u19	If the Macedonian blessed her and you did not bless her and you are relieved of sins, forgiveness of sins to Mr Katrugalo, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. To date, Minister, we have become accustomed - and you know that very well - to the major national issues there was a national line over time. This line was respected, ladies and gentlemen, and it was never violated by Prime Ministers such as Constantine Karamanlis, Constantine Mitsotakis, Andreas Papandreou, Costas Karamanlis. Only Mr Tsipras and you, Mr Minister, violated it, and I refer to the Prespecies Agreement. This particular political area, the 3% space you represent, Mr Minister, the space of the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, is opposite this national line. The foreign policy of the country is clearly not a static one and cannot remain still. On the major issues, however, there is a need for national understanding. He needs a consensus. The Prime Minister seems to have been aiming at this agreement to cause internal-party problems to Minority parties. And he did it. But in many and varied ways this parliamentary majority - which is a ravenous majority, and I regret that, I believe, this expression is lenient - is the one that shapes the attitude and position of a majority that will vote for this agreement, the Embassy Agreement. All that this government and the Prime Minister failed is to create a breach in the New Democracy. He obviously does not know that the DNA of this party has a strong national consciousness and does not break with anything, because it has strong references to the historical past and the values of Hellenism and the nation. Nor was it able to convince the Greeks to agree with its position on the Prespecies Agreement, which we have seen against the overwhelming majority of the Greeks with the protests, statements, resolutions throughout the territory within and outside the borders. We have even heard the Minister of Government say that Mr Tsipras is a kind of enlightened ruler. Has anyone in this Chamber heard more undemocratic and totalitarian views from this point of view? In essence, what do they say to Greek citizens, ladies and gentlemen? 'Mr Tsipras knows better and you are not told about the Prespecies Agreement.' That's what he tells the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is shameful. He puts the country on great adventures. It legalises Skopje's assailant narratives, which consider that there is Macedonia of the Aegean, which Greece has understood. It legalizes the account and acceptance by the Macedonian Government of ethnic and language. In the next period you will see as a consequence of this agreement. You know, there's been a lot of talk about the Skopje Constitution, with the difference that these changes have not finished and are on the air. And you know, who stops the Skopje in the process from changing issues relating to their Constitution? And it seems that after Macedonia, the Aegean line comes. Mr President, you are an island Member too. We have heard from this Step by telling colleagues that the Prespecies Agreement is so good that this model would like to be applied in the Aegean Sea as well. If that's possible! And a future agreement with Turkey will obviously have to come to the Aegean. What exactly will we agree with Turkey, ladies and gentlemen of the government? What exactly are we going to agree, since we have no claim to Turkey, have we made no claim on national sovereignty and territorial integrity? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Give me time, Mr President, I think we can't get past this. What exactly do we have to agree on? The revision of the Lausanne Treaty? The analysis of the Aegean deposits? The removal of the national guard from the islands of the Dodecanese? Our resignation from the right to extend 12 miles? Our resignation from the proclamation of the EOZ? The assumption that there are ‘grey zones’ means questionable rock islands; Who really thinks that Mr Tsipras, who is about to visit Turkey, will be trusted to deal with these serious issues, which the government majority here has put as a good deal and which is good to apply to the Aegean as well? Ladies and gentlemen, then we all remember how the Greek Government prepared Mr Erdogan's visit to Athens. It was a Waterloo of national diplomacy, Minister. And no one forgets that Mr Erdogan here from Athens, the heart of Greece, had expressed the view that the force of the Treaty of Lausanne is no longer given. Those who want to transfer the model of the Prespecies Agreement to the Aegean are not just irresponsible, they are nationally detrimental to the country and the Greeks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The political force that can guarantee the values and principles and protection of Hellenism on the ground and outside it is New Democracy. And it is good, Minister, to see the speech of Mr. Mitsotakis and the evidence he has submitted here to the National Representation. And wishing today, which is a black page of Greek history, not to take place with the ratification of the agreement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. I believe that our position is that, on the basis of international agreements, we must discuss with Turkey, in order to ensure peace, because our two peoples are keen to see peace. And especially for the Dodecanese is a good example where the Muslim population and the Christian population over time had the best relations between them. So these two peoples can coexist peacefully, of course, while respecting international agreements. And we move on with Mrs Kozobol, SYRIZA MP. Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to welcome both my fellow Members who have condemned the events of terrorisation of MPs, because unfortunately the Chief of their party, Mr Mitsotakis, has not found a single word to say about everything that is going on around us. Secondly, since they both spoke of anniversaries, I would also like to refer to an anniversary. Today it is four years since January 25, 2015, when SYRIZA became a first party of Greek citizens. And today, I think it is an honorable moment, which comes to the vote, from this government with SYRIZA in its trunk, a historic agreement. And indeed, while this particular agreement solves a national problem that has been agitating our country for three decades and which has been misguided, calmness and sobriety would be anticipated to assess an agreement that could only have such content as a result of victorious warfare. However, we are spectators of a theater of irrationality. The placements of the opposition parties, with the exception of the River and DIMAR that have paid for it, are not made on the basis of the terms of the agreement, the consequences it will have for the two countries and the wider region, but on the basis of their attitude to the government, such a serious matter becomes a tool in the hands of irresponsible and is used to destabilise the government. The party interest above the national interest. The insults, the threats, even against life, which are being launched against the MPs and their attempted terror, are practical para-states, give birth to division and remind the worst moments of the right-wing party, when, at the same time as the elected government, a para-state mechanism was in place to assist its election and its preservation in power. The grief also causes the silence of former Prime Ministers and politicians of the two parties who have been ruling over the past decades, who, while they know that the Prespecies Agreement is by far the best of those who had negotiated in the past, do not give their opinion back, do not take responsibility for them. They will be judged by the history of the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras could not open the Macedonian, considering the political cost. No one would have anything to fend on him, not even the previous governments, because they themselves did not want to take a stand and they did not want to join their political opponent. But those who recognised the necessity of resolving this problem also recognised that this government, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, had a justified targeting of getting the country out of the crisis and from the memoranda as it did. So it is certain that Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and this government would have no costs if they did not bring this particular agreement to ratification. But would it be good for the country? No, ladies and gentlemen, it would be disastrous. Not only would the hundreds of forty, but also the hundreds of ninety UN countries recognize our neighbouring country as the Republic of Macedonia and we would play in a pretext theatre angry about the use of the neighbour's constitutional name in sports matches, in meetings of Balkan countries and in other fora. The familiarization of our history from the neighbor would be complete, through statues, street names, airports and incitement of songs through books and school teaching. Turkey's trade and economic influence in its neighbour would be even stronger. And as the former Minister of State, Nikos Kotzias, of course, said, Turkey would not only be from the East, but also from the North and would push us as a bite. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Since the above is obvious, language and ethnicity remained as a major treacherous act. What exactly was granted, that our neighbours did not have, and that time would make it a final event? Here I am tabling what Matthew Nimic said, not to go into details, but to a list of languages and says that on page 94 of this updated list, the Macedonian language is listed next to the Republic of Macedonia. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Panayota Kozobol - Amanatidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the nation, as known, international conventions are not drafted under International Law and do not record ethnicities. But also by preventing NATO from entering, it is hypocrisy here too, because according to the interim agreement - and we have been convicted of it - if the neighbouring country were to leave the falsifications, it could be placed under its provisional name 'former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia'. So we know that. It could have been accession since that government had changed its policy. On the contrary, with the ratification of the agreement we take our story back, they are overthrown. Next to the word "Macedonna" is added "Citizen of Northern Macedonia" and the Macedonian language, which, as I said before, has been established since 1977, is defined as Slavic language. Our country's prestige is being upgraded and a positive signal is being emitted in a period of rise of nationalist embassy and the introversion of European states. The two countries are being intercepted from a decades controversy which has worked toxicly for the two societies, accumulating a burden of tension, suspicion and resentment, and favouring relationships of friendship and peaceful co-development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. Mr Lambroulis, Member of the JRC and Vice-President of the Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece is voting against the shameful and dangerous US Tsipras - Zaev agreement. And this attitude has been expressed since the first signing of the agreement, as has the firm and irresistible attitude of the JRC for many years since 1992 on the issue of Macedonia. A attitude that marks the total opposition to all the naval design of which is the Prespecies Agreement. A attitude that highlights the problems and the catastrophic and nationalist wounds that the agreement leaves open. A position that has as a criterion the interests of the two peoples, but also more generally of the peoples of the region. Because the only real internationalist and patriotic attitude from the people's point of view is that of opposition to NATO, the European Union, the United States of America, is that of opposition to the Prespecies Agreement, solidarity and the common struggle of the peoples, for which the JRC gives all its powers. The Prespecies Agreement is another dangerous step towards Euro-Atlantic planning in the Balkans, which have a rich history and background with negative consequences for the peoples. Just this content of the agreement, Article 2, is attempting to hide through the confrontation of the other parties, which raise the nomadic criterion for the people, presenting 'yes' and 'no' to the agreement as an alleged separatist line. It is trying to hide that the promotion by the government of the American agreement serves US planning, NATO and the European Union in the Western Balkans, seeking to play a leading role on behalf of the Greek bourgeoisie for upgrading it in the region. This is the 'yes' to the agreement by SYRIZA and others, and that is why it cannot solve the problem, since it keeps the issues of aluterism alive, giving food on both sides to nationalism. Questions to be taken into account in the context of dangerous imperialist planning. However, the 'no' of New Democracy, KINAL, ANEL, of the Golden Dawn fascists is on the same denominator as the 'yes' of the government and the others, since not only do they not deal with the naval nature of the agreement and what it serves, but they do not question it because they agree. They propose the logic of the nomenclature, regenerate irreversible cries about a Greek and Macedonia and thus hide the substance by suggesting, of course, other ways to promote the same, but dangerous designs. This is precisely what we think the people should stand to understand each political force, to see what the 'no' and 'yes' of each party means. The JRC, by voting against the agreement, and over time with its struggle and attitude, expresses from the point of view of the people's interests the 'no' to dangerous, dirty, imperialist US, NATO, European Union in the Balkans, as well as the 'no' to nationalism and the evacuation of these designs. Through such a perspective, one can see more clearly as well as why cosmopolitans and nationalists, defenders of the bourgeoisie and its interests are meeting in the attack, the conclusion of the JRC, the anti-communist empire since they are disturbed by its stable and crystalline positions as well as its action against the plans of the Americans, NATO, the European Union in the region, against mutually-favoured nationalisms and in the region and FYROM. We say 'yes' to solidarity, friendship and common struggle for the peoples of the region against imperialist plans. We are also showing this need today. That is why the JRC calls on the Greek people to strengthen their opposition to the imperialist plans of the United States of America, NATO and the European Union, to fight for the removal of the US bases from Greece, for the release of our country from the imperialist organisations, so that other peoples don't enter this prison. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u24	Thank you too, especially for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 96th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin a little differently than I had intended, as I am succeeding in Mr Lambroulis, and I would like to make a reference to his intervention. I think first of all that the presence of the JRC in this debate could not be said to be a position based on the best traditions of the Left. I would say that this way of analysing today's reality really does not honour the capacity shown by the Left to analyse things and to recruit them, distinguishing what the multiple conflicts that shape today's world are. Because the mere thoughts that 'principals, since this agreement is supported by NATO and the powerful in the world, and you are identified with them' are extremely dangerous. Because there is a reverse approach. We could also claim that this agreement is being fought first of all by the extremists, it is being fought and described by Mr Lambroulis and the JRC as shameful, so the JRC is being identified with the nationalists. These things are not fertile as thoughts and they are not really honoring a historical party, which should at least have a more detailed approach to things, to distinguish what the masters, the secondary, the multiple conflicts are, and to be able to conduct themselves in such a way as to exploit things that pave the way for peaceful coexistence and enable the peoples of the Balkans to develop together. But in addition to that, the five-day debate seems to me to have brought to light despite many things, which perhaps we have not been able to do all the time in the past, a year ago, which seemed to be a solution with today's features in the Macedonian case. Because throughout the past period, opposition has chosen mainly for electoral reasons to overshadow the dialogue, it has chosen with its attitude to leave space in the logic of patriocapilia and ethnicism. I think, however, that things as they have been asked today are asking some relentless questions, which need to be answered first and foremost by the Civic Opposition. The former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, who asked a question first and foremost to you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, which you must answer in a clear way. Finally, you know that by adopting - and many have done so on your part - the motto 'Macedonia is one Greek', do you raise the subject of border change today? You raise a question of questioning the international treaties that have identified these borders. This thing, despite any pirates you do, despite any setbacks you make, despite any balances you have within you, you cannot avoid it and need to answer it. So, do you raise today a matter of changing borders in the Balkans? As irresponsible as you are, no matter how much you are dealing with for the sake of the vote or the balances you want to make within your party, after the invasion of all these right-wing executives on the part of LAOS, you cannot leave these questions unanswered. I am deeply convinced that Mrs Bakoyannis' position - and I am referring to her, because she was a Foreign Minister - has nothing to do with a nationalist position. But unfortunately for those who see things differently from your party, your Chief yesterday left too much space to nationalism. And it is dangerous that day after day, a large party, the right-wing party of the New Democracy, is mutated and become a party that opens the way to the extreme right, to the most extreme nationalist approaches. And you're running now and you're picking it up. Mr. Dendias tried the first day with a different reason and two, three of you to create imbalances. However, we have seen that in the last few days even in these incidents - which have no precedent - you have condemned the attacks in general and vaguely in Parliament. But they don't have a signature, they have a name. They're fans of the Golden Dawn, of neo-fascism, of Nazism. Why don't you say that? What kind of balance are you seeking? How can you do so, without raising clear walls in these dangerous views? There are no settlings in these things, ladies and gentlemen. And because you speak in the name of a European conception, what kind of Europe is it that wants its people to raise walls, which wants divisions, which does not believe in co-development? How long has this been afterward with sides of your own tradition, at least as it has been shaped since 1974? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me one more minute. You told us there was a design by SYRIZA to dismantle the other parties. Did we create the Macedonian? Did we set up the interim agreement? Did we discover the solution, the national line of the composite name? No, of course not. How do you deny yourself with such great convenience? How do you ultimately accept the "Samamisation" of this place, don't you? No, of course not. You must understand, however, that what is happening today is not accidental and note: a historic agreement is being passed today, which coincides with a historic anniversary, the first time this country has taken on the left in a democratic way. It is 25 January today that it closes four years since it took on a painful but positive effort with the vote of the people here! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot understand that the memorials, the exit from the memoranda, the Prespecies Agreement have brought great reconversions to society itself, to the political charter, to the way the world thinks and understands the issues, have created conditions for a new politicisation. So this is what we are seeing today in the weakened parties of the past of state-of-the-art bipartisanism. Yes, indeed, a new memorial bipolarism emerges and there the controversy was clear, programmatic. So there the dilemmas will be ruthless and everyone has to choose between the great dilemma, "we will either go forward or go back home". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Mr. SYRIZA, MP, has the floor for five minutes. Please, Mr. Colleague, keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said to all tons that we are discussing the ratification of a historic agreement today, that moments are important and that we need to be very careful in this matter. Let me see it from another point of view and say that I am sorry to say it, but the opposition is reproducing stereotypes, according to which politicians are opportune, is where the wind blows, they change their positions according to their small-party interests. How can one explain the distance from the national line of New Democracy and PASOK, this national line and the prerequisites that these two parties have set for the solution? Who established this national line? Who supported her? He filled the internet video where Ministers, Heads of New Democracy, Foreign Ministers of the New Democracy, PASOK said their place, "we propose a double name with a geographical designation against all uses of erga omnes". How can anyone explain your obsession? There is no need for a lot of letters to read in Article 4(2) for aluterism - you don't have to have taken Nobel - or Article 7 for culture in paragraphs 1 to 5. Your attitude is preoccupied, hurts our national interests, maintains and consolidates the view of political liquidity, untrustworthyness, the fucking politicians. It justifies the reflection and removal of a portion of citizens from politics, when it sees you, who have put all these things in place, now do not understand and discover any good arguments that are not supported anywhere, rakis which have contributed your party lawyers. This attitude swept away the "Democracy has sold Macedonia" of the extreme right. You give them guns. The juntas sell the country, such as our compatriots right-wing Germans to the occupation, who handed Macedonia to the Bulgarians, or the junta of the Colonels, who handed over half of Cyprus to the Turks. This attitude legalises Parliament's invasion from five points at the same time, organized and with a plan, because these extreme right-wings want to humiliate the Temple of Democracy, because now that the army is democratic they cannot bring tanks. And what did you do? You condemned? Your Chief didn't see, he didn't hear, he didn't speak, unlike Mr. Dendia and two MPs previously in the same party. It seems that the gap is deep, Mr. Treasury's statements are not linked to the silence of your Chief. While your Chief yesterday, addressing the MPs of SYRIZA, said "I don't know if you can go to Macedonia", there were two attacks on our fellow Members in Katerini, Mrs. Skoufa's home and Drama's home, Mr. Karayannides. The molotov attacks had taken precedence at Ms. Jack and Mr. Castore's house. I believe that all those who have spoken of traitors, of ethnic leaders, of 'Poligos' - are Members of the New Democracy - there are in the Minutes - the moral perpetrators of all these attacks and the moral perpetrators of whatever is going to follow, which we dismiss. You are the old political system in the sense of inefficient and counterproductive. You're trapped in stereotypes, in past historical times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u28	Retract the rust!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u29	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u30	If you said so, you're in charge! You are constantly retreating, like all conservative forces and more those who rapidly move towards the far right. You want an enclosed and dreadful country, while we want an extrovert country, with a look around Europe - and we say it to you 'floody' - with a look at the Balkans as protagonists, with a diplomatic chapter for our country, a homeland - European pillar of security and peace. I do not want, ladies and gentlemen, to call the neighbouring state 'Macedonia'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute more, Mr President. Thank you. We were hypocritically at FYROM. The "M" in the end is not "Messinia", it is "Macedonia". Do you want them to travel and come to Platamonas and Halkidiki with passports that state the nationality of the ‘Macedonian’? That's what you seem to want. Do you want instability in the region, or do you do not understand what games Turkey plays in this state, where it has asked for bases against which Greek cities inside FYROM? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] We therefore want a Greek leader in the Balkans for beneficial economic cooperation, investment, infrastructure, transport, cultural synergies...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Darkdog, please finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u32	Don't hurt home just for a few pins of happiness. They won't reach you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Katsaniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u35	There's no staff. Here, Mr Katsaniotis, we are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the Prespecies Agreement. Is this a good deal? If it is, probably so far the citizens don't understand it. All those who participated in the rally didn't understand it. The 70% of the Greeks who, in all polls, disagrees, doesn't know and not only doesn't know, but it suits you to call them extremes. Because your aim is not to go the country forward, but to divide your opponents. You want to create the enemies that suit you. The Embassy Agreement is your worst time. It is a product of political amoralism, ideality and malnutrition, without any political consensus. You proceeded to a discussion with Skopje - secret diplomacy, all in the dark - and you concluded an agreement that you wanted to bring to the House about as a simple bill, showing incomprehensible and curious rush. Why should the agreement be passed now, ladies and gentlemen? Is there a problem in our relations with Skopje? We are the second trading partner of Skopje, we are the second country in investment in Skopje. What's the reason that makes us in a hurry? Ideal or submissive? Third, there isn't any. You say that to this day all the world has called the neighbouring country 'Macedonia'. I ask you, was it enough for them? If they got there, they wouldn't seek a deal. They needed a Greek passport for the Western world and you give it to them. You deprive Greece of its greatest negotiating advantage. In this subtle agreement, which you call the Prespecies Agreement, Greece from a large Balkan country becomes small. It is forbidden for issues which may arise in the future and which will have to do with the entry of Macedonia into the European Union and NATO, to be able to react or even to negotiate. The Bulgarians, the Croatians, will be able to negotiate bilaterally and we will have hands tied up. You have been quoting the Balkans with this agreement, but the New Democracy will exercise all the opportunities in the accession process in the European Union. Why did you do that, ladies and gentlemen? Did the strangers force you? In exchange for what? You were just the good guys? How far would you go? You are bringing us an agreement that speaks of 'North Macedonia'. At the same time, you talk about "Greek Macedonia" or "South Macedonia". And here there is a fundamental difference between you and us. For you or for some of you, Macedonia is just a geographical area. For us, Macedonia is not an area that is currently shared between Greece, Skopje and Bulgaria. It's history and culture. Macedonia is an integral part of the Greek national idiosyncrasy. Our big difference is that we speak of a nation and of a country and you don't believe in the nations. For you, the States are territories. For us, they are homes. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the willing ones, you accept that there is also Greek pervertism. In Article 4 we accept that we do not make or allow alleviating declarations. What do we mean? Article 7 provides that a multidisciplinary committee will examine and, if it so decides, review school manuals in each of the parties. Unfortunately, Minister of Education and Religious Affairs in Greece we have someone who believes that no national interests are at stake, if the neighbouring country is called Macedonia, Mr. Gavroglou. Is he going to appoint the committee? Do we trust Mr. Gavroglou to see if there is any corrosion evidence in the Greek books against Skopje? Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the willing, you fight everything that determines Greece. You fooled the Greeks with promises, you brought them dignity and national pride and became "Philippines" of foreign interests. Of course, you've also found yourself willing in the House. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u37	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u38	You turned the flag into a lottery award in schools. Those who protest with the Greek flag are extremists for you. Whoever burns it, rebels. You have said that your policy is an impediment to nationalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Catsaniotis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u40	In a minute, Mr. President. Is that a deception or are you deliberately lying? Because your own policy produces and needs nationalism as an adversary. Nationalism is the other side of nationalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u41	We should keep the time, please, Mr. Katsaniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u42	Your political practices and internationalistic views fuel nationalism, against which real patriotism, democratic, genuine and unadulterated patriotism, a patriotism that you do not understand and you call it an anachronistic. Ladies and gentlemen, as today, four years ago the citizens of Achaea elected me as a Member. I'm looking into their eyes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Katsaniotis, please complete. The other Members are protesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Is Mrs. Papacosta going to look at them in the eyes of those who elected her? That's the question. Will the ‘willers’ be able to look at the citizens who brought them here in their eyes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. Mr. Danellis, an independent MP, has the floor. Please keep the time of five minutes, so we don't hear any comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fall of the wall in 1989 is followed by the fall of the authoritarian regimes in the Balkans and the dismantling of Yugoslavia. Then there is the historic opportunity for Greece, as a Member State of the EEC and NATO, to take on the role of the "supervisor" in the progress of these countries in parliament and in the free market. This would give international prestige, gloomy and influence to our country. Instead, a political leadership far less than the circumstances entangles the country in just one way: not to recognise neighbouring democracy under the name of "Macedonia" or its derivatives. None of the anti-Greek propaganda could do as much damage as the criminal, short-sighted policy implemented. The country was led to suffocation and allowed Ankara to extend its influence along our northern borders, from Bulgaria to Albania, penetrating the economic, military, cultural, diplomatic and political fields. The people, the ignorant Greek patriots, were misinformed and manipulated by the demagogues who made careers, however, political and journalistic. And the people who gave their soul to the case, taking part in the great mobilizations then, and now, must not come out of this trial with a sense of defeat. Because it is not a nation's defeat, it is a defeat of a deadlocked policy and a defeat of certain political demagogues, which, for the sake of their small and personal interests, sacrifice the national interest. Today, as if no day has passed since then, New Democracy has been returning to the disastrous policy of Samaras and Network 21, "not even a name nor a producer" of course, in "Macedonia is one and it is Greek". Coron, we heard it yesterday from Mr Samaras. The fatal Anthony Samaras. The New Democracy must make it clear to us whether it has indeed abandoned the national line of Bucharest 2008, Kostas Karamanlis - Dora Bakoyannis, for a complex name with geographical identification for all uses. Because from the contradictory speech of the Chief of Officership yesterday we did not understand what the line of the New Democracy really is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u47	Still?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u48	And hypocritically, Mr Voridis, we do not understand that a complex name was imposed on us in the Interim Agreement. Because 'M', of course, has been heard against the cork, it means 'Macedonia'. If you don't make chains, ladies and gentlemen, you're not afraid. genuine patriotism is accompanied by self-confidence, but also by respect for the patriotism of others. Unfortunately, despite the national cost of bars in Thrace, with the Pomacians, we have not put mind. The prerequisite for a sustainable agreement is justice and mutual respect for the national philosophy of the two peoples. We are the genuine patriots, ladies and gentlemen. Not only are we selling Macedonia today - much more we are not giving it away - with the Prespecies Agreement, but we are getting it back. Do not forget that we are not talking about a peace treaty imposed by the winner following a military conflict to the losers. The Embassy Agreement meets our major demand for a complex name for all uses. For both the neighbours, two elements forming a minimum connective web, necessary to connect a multi-ethnic society. From the twenty articles of the Agreement, your rhetoric is exhausted, mainly, on these two issues, confusing conscious citizenship and citizenship with nationality and language. Although liberals, forget that consciousness issues are not the subject of agreements. As well as that the rights of self-determination and self-determination are protected by international law, the CSCE principles and, of course, infinite rulings of the International Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights. You are going through the deletion of the laudable claim of the history of ancient Macedonia and symbols, the express wording of the non-controversy of borders, and the adoption of the clear term 'homogeneous'. If, now that we have forced our neighbours to change their name and constitution, we, the Greek Parliament, refuse in any way to ratify the Prespecies Agreement, we will become the disconsumers of the international community, the West, in which all the constitutional arch, except for the JRC, we swear. Depreciation and isolation are waiting for us. And, of course, any third country turns to the International Court of The Hague or the UN can become an automatic recognition of its neighbouring country with its previous, constitutional name. Ladies and gentlemen, Macedonian is not just a major national issue. It's a matter of identity for each party and each one of us. It is precisely for this reason that it acts as a catalyst for the obvious selective political affinity that they are being displayed, catalyst and for the equally obvious strategies they impose. And indeed, I am only saddened by the abandonment of the leadership of the legacy of the PASOK left by Costas Simitis and George Papandreou in foreign policy as a whole and Macedonian in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first conscience it has been very clear that in today's historic vote I will be with the Greeks. I am sorry for the Lakedimonians who once again in the history of the country, fatal, but not inevitably, will be absent. For the record, Mr President, I would like to say in the Minutes of the House that there is the flagship text in February 1993, in which we signed three hundred and seventy-four Greek citizens - I will mention only the unforgettable Leonidas Kourkos and Michael Papayannakis - entitled 'Greek Macedonia is Greek. Let's talk now.' [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Karasmanis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly condemn the attacks on fellow Members. These acts of violence are inconsistent with our ideology, our idiosyncrasy, our political culture. The New Democracy is a party of modesty, it's their party of measure. From our positions and principles or reject any extremeity and fanaticism and acts of violence. After the thorough, documented speech of our President, who enlightened all the grey points of this harmful agreement and the efforts made by the Prime Minister to dismantle with funny arguments and because of the time limitation, I am forced to adjust my speech and to limit myself to four - five points. The government has proceeded with this agreement without the necessary national consultation, without any substantial dialogue with the parties, i.e. with a policy of 'decide and act'. He showed a retreat that no other Greek government has shown in the past. And it has chosen a political and national behaviour that is unacceptable and deeply undemocratic. Acknowledging a false "Macedonian" language and a non-existent "Macedonian" state is meticulously unspeakable and instead, as the government claims, to solve a thorny problem that has been stumbling the country for decades, opens a cycle of controversy with the symptoms of a popular division already visible and opens the Ferret spread to Macedonian and aluterism. Our president analysed them. I don't have the time to expand too. FYROM’s acceptance that Macedonian language is part of the South-Slavic language family does not constitute a retreat. But since they too admit it, why do they not accept it as a South-Slavic, but insist on being called a 'Macedonian'? When their first president, Kiro Gligorov, said: "We are not Macedonians, we are Slavs and we have nothing to do with the legacy of the ancient Macedonians." When Article 7 and paragraph 3 states that Skopje under the terms ‘Macedonia’ and ‘Macedonian’ means the territory, language, population and their characteristics, in their own history, culture and heritage, is it or is it not a recognition of Macedonian ethnicity and identity? When the famous private communication speaks clearly about Macedonian people, about Macedonian languages, why, gentlemen of the government, are you supposed to wonder where we disagree? We categorically deny that there is Macedonian language, that there is Macedonian ethnicity or Macedonian state and people. These are the ones that are prestigious university teachers, but also historians who call a brick bomb that will blow into the hands of the next governments with unforeseen consequences for our country. Reread Article 8 that stipulates that both sides must review school history books, manuals, maps, etc., containing alpha-corrosive references. What kind of pervertalism are we going to renounce? Are we going to review our story, Paul Mella, Tello Agra, Gonno Yota, have you arrested our Macedonians? I am sorry for the emotional burden, but let me once again express my particular sensitivity from this one. I am a birth and nourishment of the birthplace of Alexander the Great. I was born in Pella, I grew up, I was magnified, walking between monuments of a story that no one is entitled to or can neglect, far more than to grant it. Since the first moment that as Minister I stepped my foot in the European fora in June 2014, before the skepticy shines, in front of my twenty-eight counterparts, out of the agenda, the experience came out of my soul, as well as my counterpart American Minister. I told them about my special homeland, Pella, Metropolis of Hellenism. I presented them with all the evidence of her undeniable and exclusive Greekity. I invited them to visit her, to experience the uniqueness of this place firsthand, to admire our monuments, the Greek Macedonian inscriptions that sent to the world at the time the universal human message of the Greek spirit, letters, science, arts and culture. Why do some wonder about the simple world coming out on the streets and protesting? All these hundreds of thousands of people who are involved with their children and who would have been much more last Sunday - if the unprecedented as well as suspected diversions were not to happen - are extreme nationalists and fascists? I was there from the beginning to the end, and I have a private perception, but I don't have time to expand. We don't think they understand that any vote in favour of the agreement is equivalent to a road without a return? Do they not understand that it creates international legal commitments and irrevocably accomplished? Do they not understand what Article 20(9) intends for the country, which expressly states that the provisions of this Agreement will remain in force for an indefinite period and are irreversible and that no amendment to this Agreement, contained in paragraphs 3 and 4, may be made to this Agreement? Do we think that they did not read or hear that Zafe himself after the amendment, in their measures, of the Skopje constitution, spoke unequivocally about Macedonian people and Macedonian languages, writing from a preamble to his old shoes and agreements and amendments? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have to stand with a sense of enormous national responsibility towards history. Say "yes" or "no" to an agreement concluded in the wilderness of the people and their representatives, in an agreement that deletes all red lines with a single-twinded one, which emits Macedonian nationality, language and identity in a Slavic state, which strengthens their unscrupulous and dangerous mutilation and gives rise to their fierce demand to erase our own history, our memories, our books, the heroic fighters of the Macedonian struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u51	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u52	I'm closing, Mr. President. Remember, in politics, there is no fascinating policy so that it can delete errors or omissions and above all responsibilities. In every "yes" in this hostilely harmful agreement, it will be an indelible signature to humble international commitments of our country, definitive and irreversible. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u53	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, are ministers speaking today too?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u55	Please, Minister, for five minutes, in accordance with the plenary decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, since the debate of the last few days on the agreement, but also from the attitude of the individual Members of Parliament, it has emerged more clearly than ever that two different worlds conflict, two quite different national and political concepts. It conflicts yesterday with today and the future, the modern Greece, which is becoming the leading country in the Balkans and the wider region of the south-eastern Mediterranean, with the Psorokostina of misery. I would like to address our fellow citizens and Members of Parliament who are against the agreement and do not belong to the extreme right-wing space or to patriots of logic and tactics. It is worth considering what results we have had with the tactics that we have been in all these years. One hundred and forty countries have recognized our neighbours as Macedonia, in a little while the whole planet, apart from us, will recognise the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as a Macedonian one, with no provision for our history, for the name of Macedonia, for the streets, for the language that you are so cut up, for the nation. At every international meeting, every initiative, at every meeting invited by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, a huge battle is being fought by us to participate without prejudice to the fact that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is not recognized by us alone as Macedonia. In critical meetings on infrastructure, transport, energy, tourism, telecommunications, information technology, investment initiatives, our country is not concerned with forming partnerships, but with the name of its neighbour. There are several cases where we have canceled our participation in such meetings. When we participate in the Minutes, the conclusions, the decisions are given a second battle, not to guarantee better formalities and forecasts which serve the country in every area, but to prevent the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia from writing as Macedonia or to put the asterisk of our objection to the name of the neighbouring country. A second problem is that anything at our borders cannot be solved, since we cannot have bilateral relations and bilateral agreements with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. A number of examples are the establishment of a customs office, operation of railway lines, procedures for road and rail transport, implementation of each category of network, energy, telecommunications, anything. It is obvious that the New Democracy is aware of this, and the KINAL knows it, and those who have served in government positions. Is it possible someone would want us to go on like this? Our vision for the country, for the Balkans, is different for our peoples. To create those conditions in our neighbourhood that exist in the countries of Central Europe. Crossing one country to another and not knowing where the borders are, developing common productive activities, daily movements of citizens and goods, living in the border regions. Our patriotism is based on peace, it is based on zero sense of insecurity by our fellow citizens who live there. Our policy four years is to implement, where we can, as many vertical axes as we can among our countries on our northern border. With an emphasis on the electrified railway line of Thessaloniki - Idomenos, which is being tested these days and after the agreement, because we will not be able to move forward with the agreement on the Thessaloniki rail network - Idomeni - Skopje - Belgrade, how our products will come quickly and how our ports will be upgraded to the countries of Central Europe. On the initiative of Nikos Kotzias, we completed the construction and maintenance of the Florina - Monastery railway line. After the vote on the agreement, we can move on to establish a customs office there, so that the villages in the area can come to life, not to say how nice the Prespes are once the time we go to the Prespecies that George Lianis does and to relive the villages. How will we overcome cross-border issues in road and rail transport when we cannot have bilateral relations and when this policy is perpetuated? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Our concern is therefore to develop common infrastructure networks, common railway networks, energy networks, telecommunications networks and interoperable systems, to implement the Balkan combined transport ring, to upgrade our country. This is our patriotism that is not related to the ghost villages, the devastated areas of Northern Greece, as New Democracy became. Yesterday you're worried about peaches. Yesterday! All those years that, throughout Northern Greece, Aridia, Edessa, everywhere, your policies had farmers burying peaches and abandoning primary production, you weren't worried!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u57	Andreas Papandreou started it. Then you were together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u58	Yeah, yeah. I'll say about Andreas Papandreou. My honor and my pride, others are not my honor and my pleasure who were my leaders. So, as much as you've hidden under the rug that you've changed these days, in recent years, in the last few days, all your hidden secrets have emerged, the national risk discipline from the north. I'm afraid so. I would also like to remind KINAL, as you said, that in PASOK organisations when we were discussing national issues, we have never been concerned about the issue of the outright dispositions of Yugoslavia or the then Macedonian Republic of Yugoslavia, nor about Bulgaria. We were concerned with Turkish expansion, especially after Yugoslavia was dismantled, with the operation of a Muslim arch on our northern border, which was an attempt attempt by the forces of Turkish expansion. Today, with their attitude, and the New Democracy and the KINAL, they are obviously at the forefront of this concern. They want to present FYROM to the forces of Turkish expansion. Who, then, opposes finding a solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u59	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're right. I would like to submit two documents to help the New Democracy colleagues, since they are the main responsible over time for the problem we have with our northern neighbours. Yesterday the Prime Minister reported what Evangelos Averov said about the Macedonian language in 1959. In order to contribute to enrichment, therefore, I will submit a leaf in the Official Journal of the Government of the Kingdom of Greece. Evangelos Averov was Minister of the Interior and Constantine Karamanlis was Prime Minister. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the Minutes the abovementioned Official Journal of the Government, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Article 7 mentions the Justice Ministries of the People's Republics of Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro. Obviously, Tasia and the companions who said it would have been affected by the agreement you had written. Because you, as a party, called it "Macedonia" a long time ago. In addition, I should like to give you an article. You know this gentleman, he's a serious man. It's Michael Pegglis. He didn't have his picture. This is an article in "KATHMERINI". I'm filing that, too. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] This explains from his perspective why the agreement is the best solution for our country. Michael Peglis, a doctor, was advisor to Antonis Samaras and Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The name in the European People's Party and other international forums has been handled for ten years. But that's what you're hiding. And because some people have taken off again, ladies and gentlemen, or want to take the tricycles out on the streets again, some people have these days out of naphthalene, where they have been hidden, some are texting our phones, some are taking us and threatening us and swearing our families, some are attacking our comrades. Not to mention one - one, I'd like to send a message. Those of you who have an affair with them, take it to them: From our grandparents, fathers, families and ideology of ideology we have learned not to be afraid, not to faint in threats, trabbourism and persecution, to fight for our ideology and to win at the end. We are proud of this historic agreement - it is a pity that he has left Chief of Staff, but it is Mr. Voridis here who said it - not only because we implement it and we do it, but why we believe it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much. SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Mumulides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a very important meeting of the Greek Parliament is gradually concluded, and it is a historic meeting for the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement. I am sure that time will justify this historic decision of the National Representation. I want to stand by the attitude of Officer Opposition to this day. Unfortunately, her attitude is a repetition and, above all, the exhaustion of her arguments. Thus, we are leading to the top of confrontation, thankfully with the Greek society to realize at every moment what the truth is and what the built lies are, who defend the country's creative democratic future and the prospects that are being opened and who want to return the country to its glorious deadlock and introverted past. I will exclude a significant number of speakers from the New Democracy and, above all, clearly, I will exclude Mr. Treasury's important political positions. In this debate, not only the arguments have been exhausted, but the words admittedly few, same and repetitive. There is a sad repetition in the New Democracy which has been going on for more than three years. A sad repetition, however, was also yesterday's speech by Mr.Mitsotakis: a bishop, a civil war delirium aimed at splitting Greeks. A melancholy. We have long and methodically realise that an unprecedented plundering and analogy of citizens' consciousness is taking place. Unfortunately, political careers are being built on ignorance and fear. The Greek Government chooses to dare, to create optimistic, hopeful breaches in the perception of governance that has existed for decades and which is summarized in the popular expression "all under the carpet", no solution to major issues and, above all, to major national issues. This government chooses policies in view of the national interest, taking over political costs, a word unknown to Civic Anti-Civilization. Really, how does the finding that Macedonian legalise the Extreme Right for the first time after the Century? Civic Opposition, instead of proposals for the implementation of realistic policies and a sincere common course of information for the Greek people, as the political system should do, chooses the myth, illusion, fantastic reality. He's choosing to leave. This is how they want homeland, in an endless hostage to preservation, in a lasting introverted state, occupied by fearful syndromes. But the Presidencies' Agreement has considerable successes. Greece gets its story back. It is our great Alexander, absolutely our Greek civilization, our emblems, the star of Berna, our right to use the name "Macedonia" for our products, as well as the use of the name as well as where we want it. Instead, our neighbors are forced in a time of peace to change their constitution, to change their name. They change airport names, they dismantle statues, they change street names, they clarify that the term "nationality" refers to citizenship and that their language belongs to the family of southern Slavic languages. Ladies and gentlemen, voting in favour of the Prespecies Agreement is a unique opportunity to defeat timeless Balkan nationalism. So those who are unscrupulous and unconscious, irresponsibly and dangerously unscrupulously unscrupulous: "Macedonia is one and it is Greek" - and this is the difference among the speakers of the New Democracy, some yesterday they defended it with passion and some have denied it - let us say when the war begins. Fantasticism has never helped Greek society. Let me remind you a few months ago that next to this slogan there was also a shock that held teenage hands with the slogan: 'The Republic sold Macedonia'. So we have reached dangerous and unconscious choices. The gathering of our Greek fellow citizens last Sunday in the Constitution had significant benefits for democracy. On the one hand, popular expression, an inalienable right for every democratic society to protest, argue, claim and propose, on the other hand, organised confrontation with democracy, organised confrontation with the government, from the darkest nationalist and nazi forces that have attempted to seize this House in an attempt to create chaos. And since lately, the concepts "theatre", "farm", "coma", "pharma", "phrassomia", have to know first that the theatre is a very serious job, a very responsible job that cannot produce work if there is no vision. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. So, I remember a timely and timely hero, I remember Tartufos. Tartufus is the symbol of hypocrisy, hypocrisy, hypocritical behavior, he can survive by pretending to be the religious, the godly, the moral, the family worshiper, the worshiper of peace, the truth, he is crucified in every expression, but he does the whole opposite, as he works strictly for his own benefit. I think Moliere would be very jealous of the interpretative performance of several of the speakers of the New Democracy, who clotheed the garment of undefiled, undefiled, religiously respected patriot, the only patriot who defends national interests, but he never says anything about his position knowing well that the purpose justifies the means. I'll close up with Stephen Manos's previous report. Governments must make decisions. In our relations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, as well as with our relations with Turkey or the Cyprus issue, successive Greek governments have chosen to postpone difficult decisions on the future supposedly to improve. Ladies and gentlemen, with the deep faith that Greek Macedonia is coming out strengthened by the signing of this agreement and as a Macedonian MP and with patriotic responsibility and consciousness towards the future of the country, as well as the timely neglected and looted Greek Macedonia, I am voting in favour of the Prespecies Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u63	We shall proceed with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Kefaliannis. Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not been very surprised at the views of the SYRIZA colleagues who so passionately defend the content of a nationally detrimental agreement, this Ambassadors' agreement. The left-wing positions of the Macedonian state are also known, beginning in the 1920s and even with the decision of the 3rd Conference of the Communist Party in December 1924 on independent Macedonia and the independent Thrace. Rizzospasti 14-12-1924. As is well known, it is also known from the infamous decision of the fifth plenary session of the Central Committee of the Communist Party, 30 and 31 January 1949, which proclaimed that "as a result of the victory of the democratic army and popular revolution, the Macedonian people will find their full restoration, as they want to do, now offering their blood to obtain it". This is the position of the Communist Party on the Macedonian issue. The two peoples, both Greek and Macedonian, are fighting together for their freedom. As a result of victory the Macedonian people will decide for themselves how they want to live and be governed." The same decision goes on to say that "Paul Melas was a Greek comedian who shook the nipple in the neck of the Macedonian people, who slain under so many equal slavery". So, ladies and gentlemen, we have no impression that the 'first time left' government has accepted a private communication from the part of Skopje on the part of the Macedonian people. So instead of Mr. Tsipras returning her as unacceptable, he celebrated not because he did not understand, but because he believed that the Greek people would not understand. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias assisted by their government partner, Mr Kammenos, have secretly negotiated and without trying to form a national front, as happened in 2007 for two main reasons. Firstly, because they thought that they would surprise New Democracy and lead to the break-up of New Democracy and, secondly, in order to ensure further favor on the part of Europeans, to avoid the application of painful uncompromising measures that had been adopted by themselves and by themselves, they had imposed on the Greek people. They exchanged a national issue for their stay in power. They changed the 2008 national line to break the New Democracy first and foremost and the other opposition parties second and foremost. Basically, they ended up breaking with the co-signed, Mr. Kammenos, because of the Ambassadors' agreement, even with a shaic divorce with Danish MPs and short-term majorities. And here, of course, an issue of democracy arises. Is an opportunityal government, a government majority, to ratify such a serious agreement? Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, that you should legitimise an agreement against about 70% of the Greek people? Did you consider this issue, this agreement, or perhaps the intention of signing this agreement with this content to the Greek people in 2015? I ask you, why don't you go through a referendum? Here you moved in 2015 on an issue that is less serious than today. Of course, the answer is simple, because as you are a al-card government, you are also a carit democrat. It is not enough, however, to work on a national issue for micro-party purposes, but in addition to trying to find a fig sheet, you are using arguments that Mr Gruevski's Members would not be able to use so-called Macedonian language recognition in 1977. The argument that the Skopje never dared to put it in the negotiations with our country, unfortunately, was offered by the Foreign Minister then Greece's Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, to disprove it up to Mr Zaev, who on his tweet celebrated that after the agreement - be careful, ladies and gentlemen - the Macedonian language will finally be promoted in the UN. Instead of taking advantage of a favourable state-of-the-art situation in Skopje with a more diverse than Mr Gruevski, unfortunately the Skopje side took advantage of the endism of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias. In addition, according to the documents that broke into 'Wikileaks', Mr Zaev's stress was clear: 'Come on, let us close the negotiations, because the next ones are not allowed to accept what we are discussing today'. Instead of taking advantage of the warmth of the scop to enter the Euro-Atlantic institutions and to resolve an internal security issue, unfortunately, they took advantage of the SYRIZA thirst for a few more months to remain in power. Then, as soon as Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos were confronted with the general outcry of the Greek people and the possibility that a parliamentary majority should not be achieved on the issue, they went ahead with the most obvious anti-national attitude, and publicly urged the international player to put pressure on the New Democracy to change its attitude and vote in favour of this appalling agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, even at this last point, please ask Mr Webber, Mrs Merkel, to draw the ear of the Members of the New Democracy. And I come to the last point, Mr President, an incomprehensible matter for the operation of the Greek Parliament. Members are today called upon to vote for a historic agreement without knowing exactly what they are ratifying, as the government unfortunately deceived the Greek Parliament. Just yesterday, Mr. Tsipras, Deputy Minister, admitted that he could not submit to the Greek Parliament the revised Skopje constitution, because it simply does not exist. In simple terms, he told us that the constitutional review in Skopje has not yet been completed, which is a direct violation of the Skopje agreement with the government's tolerance, as it allows Skopje to complete the review by ensuring their NATO membership.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Kefaliannis, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u66	I shall conclude, Mr President. Instead, the Minister, in his attempt to deceive Parliament, tabled the existing constitution of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, entitled 'A Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia'. He poorly downloaded it off the internet, and he should have testified the whole thing. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we call a bronze 'no' in the agreement, which delivers part of the Greek identity to an artificial state, to an artificial people, with an artificial parliamentary majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", fifty one student and students and three teachers from the General School of Vasiliki Evia. The House welcomes them! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Vlasis has the floor. Mr. Vlassi, I'm sorry, Mrs. Gennimata asked for a personal reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u68	Let me talk now that I'm up and right after. If I hadn't come up, I'd be happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u69	Because he went in...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u70	Let Mr. Vlass speak after getting up at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u71	I'll talk to you later, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u72	I will have the honour of being heard by two presidents and Mr. Mitsotakis and Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u73	The presidents, as you know, have no say today. But for personal reasons the reason should be given. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Vlasis for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, really what a tragic irony you are celebrating the four years of your government in power, will do so by putting your signature wide on the sellout of Macedonia. Today you are writing the last act of a disgraceful political performance, by ratifying the Greek Parliament with a ruthless agreement, which, instead of solving problems, will probably trigger a lot more, an agreement that gives our neighbours everything. Recognizes "Macedonian language" and "Macedonian ethnicity", where there are neither mindlessly exist. You advertise right and left that you solved the scout. In order to name a development solution, the interests of both parties must be satisfied. When only one side is satisfied, then for the other side it is a retreat and a resignation. Does it not surprise you that in the neighbouring country the necessary things are going through with an increased majority? And even where they are, and where they stand, Mr. Zafe and his company celebrate? This certainly does not constitute a service to our country of our own interests, because at the same time the reactions here are enormous. You are ignoring the grand and uninformed - to stress - the rally of Sunday, in what hundreds of thousands of Greeks with their blemish came from every corner of the earth to protest against this hurried agreement of Mr. Tsipras. And as a result, Mr. Tsipras - as if that were not enough - comes to them too, he calls us fascists and far-righters. There children and the elderly were beaten, there they were thrown out of chemicals. You know, these are the chemicals that Mr. Tsipras said in 2014 he would abolish. Of course, after all that happened, he did not say anything about taking responsibility, talking about resignation. But what can I say? For the government of left anaesthesia, all these are fine letters. The truth is, you're afraid of the anger of the people. And while we, as a New Democracy, have unequivocally condemned and condemned all violence from wherever it comes, do you not understand that, before 2015, you were sowing discord and division, it is time to reap anger and indignation? You say that you have succeeded where all the previous Greek governments had failed. And the truth is, the previous governments wanted to solve the skepticism, but for the benefit of our country. The only thing you want is for you to close this issue - as a matter of urgency, indifferent to the losses, indifferent to the different view of almost aggregation of Greek society. Just yesterday Kostas Karamanlis disproved your argument so far, stressing that you were removed from Bucharest's national line of 2018. You have lost our negotiating advantage of Macedonia's membership to NATO. You have shown unjustified rush, which affects our country's laws. Antonis Samaras then spoke about these issues, which when you are in a hurry to close them as - as, you create particular problems in the future, while from the inspired and thorough speech of our President and tomorrow's Prime Minister of Greece Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we saw a cynical Prime Minister on a raid. All he proved in his speech yesterday is that you became more skeptical than the Skopje. History will write that Mr. Tsipras is the Prime Minister who said "NEI" where his predecessors had said "OH". You managed to divide the Greeks to unite the Skopje. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like a minute, Mr President, like the previous ones. And I didn't expect anything different from you for fighting history, tradition, flag, orthodox, Greek family, all the fundamentals of our nation. Obviously for you Macedonia is nothing more than a name. For us, however, as for most Greeks, it is much more than that. It's part of our country, our history, it's one of the diamonds of our civilization. And if, for you, Macedonia is just a name for us - as the great Soldier said - our soul is our name. I know that none of the words that come out of my lips right now don't touch you. However, I would like to ask you, at least at the very last moment, to revise and not ratify this appalling agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. The President of the Democratic Association, Mr Gennimata, has asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I heard something about denial. There are no secondments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u77	No, I said that before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u78	If Mrs Gennamas wanted to have the floor on staff, I would ask for two, three minutes to report on the staff, even though no one knew there was anything personal. Understand? [[Noise from the Wing of Democratic Association]] No, it's okay! Please! Nobody's gonna have a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u79	That is exactly what you said, Mr President, and I have already told the President of the New Democracy. Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u80	I would like to dwell on a few points which concern us directly from the Prime Minister's speech yesterday. It's a question first. He referred to the attacks against SYRIZA Members, which we strongly condemn. But the time has come, Mr. Tsipras, to look into your mirror. Because after so many years you have not yet condemned the attacks, the violence, the pre-conflicts against PASOK, its officials, its MPs, and the attacks that have come against him and the President of the Republic! And all this has been done with the participation of your own executives, with your tolerance, perhaps your guidance. This cycle of violence began in the squares of the indignant. You were with SYRIZA, New Democracy and Golden Dawn together. And finally, this cycle of violence must be closed now because it does not serve the country and the Greek people. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Point two. We are impressed every time by the way you lie. You did not hesitate yesterday to distort even historical truth, or you are completely irrelevant and you are also a Minister of Foreign Affairs. You should know that the Ohrid Agreement was an internal matter for Skopje between the government and parties, and no involvement whatsoever was made by our country and by Mr Simitis' government at that time in 2001. You're just trying to create impressions. The second lie you've told is even bigger. You tried to create the impression that the name FYROM came through the Interim Agreement and Andreas Papandreou, while you know very well that this name was established in April 1993 on Mitsotakis Government when he entered the UN. None of this was involved by the Government of PASOK and Andrew Papandreou in the Interim Agreement. That name already existed. You are just trying to justify unjustified and you do not hesitate to say even that lie. Point 3. Yesterday, your former partner mentioned the fact that your advisor intervenes in the judiciary in pending cases. And I wonder: at last, is there a prosecutor in this place to intervene? For no one has yet intervened on what has been said at the Ministerial Council, what your former partner has said about your Government, what is financed by Mr Soros. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Of course, we see that more and more of your former colleagues are burned today because they dared to cooperate with you, by Mr Alavanos, Mr Varoufakis, now Mr Kammenos. The list keeps going. You told me, Mr Tsipras, yesterday and with meaning - you moved my finger - that Mr Zaev is a socialist. Of course, he is a socialist, and that is why he has ensured his country's interests in the best possible way. You, neither a socialist, nor the interests of our country, have you managed to safeguard. Every time you negotiate, this place loses, this is the big truth. So the question is what you did for your country and not what Mr Zafe did for his own. You have been concerned, from the Stepping of the House, about this very serious agreement with the deletion of a member of the Change Movement, a case that does not concern you. Be careful, Mr. Tsipras, because with what you are doing you yourself are personally exposed and you are exposing people. You must be much more careful. So I conclude by saying that voting against this agreement is an act of national responsibility, because it obviously does not protect the interests of the country. You have negotiated without consultation and without a national line. We have repeatedly called for the Council of Political Heads to be convened. You didn't want to. You didn't want to see your disagreement in front of all of Greece with your partner, Mr. Kammenos, you didn't want to interrupt your cooperation ever since and one thing you had in mind: How to exploit, how to use this very serious case for the place to serve your party interests. You used this agreement to split once again and dissolve parties. In some cases you've done it. Keep in mind, with the Central Left, you won't make it. Whatever you do turns against you. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] And I close as I started: Go back, Mr. Tsipras. Four years is too long. That's a popular demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u82	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u83	Here you go, Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u84	Madam President, I do not want the floor on staff because I do not feel that I was affected by what Mrs Gennamas said, but I owe her, representing the SYRIZA group, from the President, to say that Mrs Gennamas has asked for the personal speech, and she did not refer to anything personal, because we were all in the Chamber and we did not hear the Prime Minister raise yesterday. Mrs Gennamas, of course, feels the need to supplement her weak yesterday's presence in the House. She feels the need to defend her catastrophic party. It's legitimate. It's respected. It is a political position, but it is well aware that all these words are spoken, that Tsipras and SYRIZA are perverting centers, spaces, etc. do not apply. The parties break up when they have nothing to say. No one else is tearing them down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u85	Now I'm going to give the floor to Mr. Tibetan. I would ask that the time be respected, because it passes very quickly. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Madam President. One would actually expect Mrs. Gennimata to hear something more prototype and not repeat things she has said for twenty times with a particularly monotonous trend. Of course, she's the one, that's what she says. There have been many arguments and I would just like to say a few things with their name. New Republic and PASOK were in favour of a complex name. I repeat - and I stress it - New Democracy and PASOK have no objections to the use of the term 'Macedonia' as a synthetic of the name of the neighbouring country. How could both parties, in 2007, have called for it again and again, a complex name with geographical determination? Historics there were many "Macedonians": Ancient Greek Macedonia, Roman, Ottoman and let us learn a new story yesterday by Mr Samaras, who I do not know where he has found it written. Let us not do another history lesson, just as long as we see how anyone who says today that Macedonia is geographically sharing between four states is like questioning the Treaty of Bucharest in 1913, with which Greece took 51% of Macedonia. Macedonia’s being one may sound pleasant in the ears of many, but it is unforgivable to be cut off by responsible political lips. Those who underestimate the intelligence of the people are wrong. Greeks and Greeks understand that the neighbouring country is already using the term "Macedonia" and that it is officially used by the Greek state as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The whole world recognizes it as "Macedonia's Republic" and today it will be recognised as "North Macedonia", that is, a Macedonia that has not been relevant to Greek Macedonia since the ancient times. Colleagues and colleagues, New Democracy and PASOK managed the fates of this place for forty years at both economic and foreign policy level. And while economic responsibilities are unprecedented in our country and self-proofing, in the field of foreign policy, they attempt to appear as exclusive patriots. Our old sieve art, you tell me. Indeed, the Prespecies Agreement works as a catalyst for political developments, which the KINAL cannot understand today. By choosing the extreme right-wing political agenda and rhetoric for Macedonian, the New Democracy is trying not only to fish in blush waters of populism, but also to hide the policy of redundancies, austerity, insurance Pinochet, privatization of public health and education. KINAL, trapped in SYRIZA's strategic defeat policy, chooses coexistence with New Democracy and Macedonian. Uncomfortable and powerless to resist self-resolution tendencies, has turned the back on the progressive world. It is true that a large part of the world reacts to the use of the term "Macedonia". This is because since the early 1990s New Democracy and PASOK have imposed extreme ostrichism. Aren't we all going to call it Macedonia? We'll call her Skopje. But come on, he's got short feet! So you don't make foreign policy. Mostly, so you're not a patriot. So you hurt your country, so you cultivate a barren nationalism, so you isolate yourself internationally, waste valuable diplomatic capital, while questioning your own history while insulting an entire people. Everyone today agrees that today's Macedonia, with the Prespecies Agreement, has nothing to do with Macedonia of Alexander the Great. It seems that even our northern neighbors are tired of living with a lie. They chose to reject the lies, which were fed by the likes of the New Democracy, nationalists such as Gruevski, and chose to shout loudly around the world "we have nothing to do with Macedonia of Alexander the Great". But here, too, there are followers of Gruevski. These days, the conference of the CEDEFOP on Constitutional Review is held in Thessaloniki. The conclusions of the conference were summarised by Mr. Patoulis in the following statement: "On Thursday we will be in Parliament, seeking to give the signal to all those Members of Parliament to think through their conscience and not through their party orders." It is well known, of course, that Mr Patulis' political impertinence and arrogance are politically unconscious and party forced. But that's the least. The worst thing is that it uses an extremely popular institution, local government, which empowers consensus, social cohesion and solidarity, to divide the citizens in an unequivocal and nationally dangerous way. I think that tomorrow our people can shout out to the rest of the world: our history is not frustrated. We're not afraid of the future, we're planning it with optimism. The black days of the memorials are behind us and a future of coexistence and peace with our neighbors is our destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. I will give the floor to Mr Kourakis, Vice-President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u88	Madam President, can you give us an update on the list? What's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u89	I'll tell you. Now Mr. Kourakis will be speaking, then Mr. Iliopoulou from Golden Dawn, then the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Tyloridou will continue with the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u90	Today is the Members' day. We're holding a special meeting for the MPs to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u91	Let me read you an announcement to get in touch. I would like to inform the House that at the end of the debate, at approximately 14.30 p.m., a roll-call vote will take place on the bill by saying, at the request of the President of Parliament, in accordance with Rule 72(1)(c). After all, since yesterday we have announced that the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u92	We should be able to talk to the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u93	So try to keep time to speak as many as possible. We can't make it to five days, so everyone can talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u94	Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u96	However, the agreement with the President of Parliament was that all colleagues on the list will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u97	Like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u98	All right, Mr. Dendia, but there's also an economy of logic. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u99	You are probably right vaguely right, but this particular issue is a special matter. I think that all colleagues should be given the opportunity to speak. I refer to my party colleagues. I am speaking for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u100	I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u101	The position of the New Democracy, the Mitsotakis position, is that the New Democracy colleagues must speak. It's not about time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u102	Yes, but we have declared since yesterday the end time. There are too many people's obligations, with tickets, etc., I can't help it. Anyway, here we are, let's see. Mr. Kourakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, after four days of exhaustive parliamentary debate and more than two hundred speakers, it seems, from the whole of the parties, that we can say that today, despite the miserable efforts of the extreme right and of many others, democracy is coming out louder. And at the level of the arguments, interesting things have been heard. So we all had the opportunity to remember why only Greek Macedonia is Greek. We managed to update our knowledge of what the ethnic evolution was in Macedonia's wider geographical area, which people happened, which peoples colluded and when and especially to remember that there were people without a name in this region. Yesterday it was said very typically that they were called locals. No one could say they were Slavokedons. They were people without rights, people who participated in the difficult times of the history of this Balkan region. What was Macedonia's forbidden language? Who spoke to the Macedonians, referred to by Penelope Delta? You know it was so big a ban on speaking their tongue, that even songs listening to marriages were forbidden and police came in and ruined marriages. They were families separated by the civil society, who were persecuted and all these historical events we remembered them on the occasion of the debate we had. Ladies and gentlemen, the refuge in the nationalist rhetoric, the refuge in our own albuminism even yesterday, and you will remember how Mr Samaras closed down his speech, that it is one Macedonia and it is Greek. Isn't that assimilating? Isn't that what the slogan "to guns, weapons, to take Skopje" does not mean? Why is there such a blind nationalist reform and a counterfeiting of history? The question, which we must all ask, is that in the historical space between Macedonia of Alexander the Great and in today's era there were no population reclassifications in the Balkans? Were there not procedures for the creation of national states? I take this opportunity to say that yesterday I was pleased that Mr Mitsotakis for the first time recognised and stated clearly that there is a geographical space in Macedonia, where there are various "Macedonians" belonging to various states. There have been conflicts here before and after the civil war around this issue. So let us ask ourselves: Macedonia as a historical and geographical area remained Greek and united? Anyone who refuses these historical events does not offer good services to Greece and national ones, as we have said, is the truth. On this point I would like, given that all the arguments relating to the agreement on the issue of language, citizenship and all other important issues have been heard, to make a reference to one of the most crucial issues for me. It's the question of school books. You understand that there is a question of school books, as we have won through the agreement the issue of history, this account built by our neighbours, to be completely removed and therefore, it brings about a change in school manuals. If an issue lies at the core of brotherhood between the people of Greece and that of our neighbouring country, it is our commitment to teach history together, by eliminating nationalisms. To remind you that something like this was done by France and Germany, and that was very beneficial for both states. The school manuals of history, which will come from our joint, scientific, pedagogical effort, are the real social investment in this agreement. The common approach of history, where possible, as we have said, has created new generations of citizens who have exceeded hatred. So we want to make it and we'll make it. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to which Mr Bolaris referred in detail, through the joint committee set up, is working and bringing results. Mega-ideisms, perversion maps, snuffing historical events are already from the books of the neighbouring country. At this point, I would like to tell you that this committee has met once in Thessaloniki and will meet in the next few days in a town where they invite us to our neighbouring country. And with regard to the detailed programmes that the Ministry of Education will take out from Skopje, it will order no chapter of what was from the propaganda of the previous decades, as everything was unstoppable and was mentioned in ancient Greek history, ancient Macedonian history, Alexandros, Aristotle. All this will not be taught. I close, saying, as a citizen of Thessaloniki, that I expect this agreement to push the development that we all need. All the citizens of Thessaloniki remember the bourgeoisie brought to our town by the embargo on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. We were all angry when we saw invasion battalions burning neoclassical buildings and attacking the city's mayor. This city of hatred we will not let it exist. Thessaloniki is - and will continue to be - the multicultural city of brotherhood, hospitality and progress. No one can turn the city's society into nationalism. All of us will continue to defend ourselves by all the means available to us for our social and democratic achievements that we have established for struggles over the years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too. Mr. Eliopoulos has the floor for five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, the five minutes for the sale of Macedonia are very little. I'll try to say it as briefly as possible. Black Friday today for our homeland. As was that black day, the 29th May that Istanbul fell, so it is black Friday and today, the 25th January 2019 that Macedonia falls. We deliver Macedonia. And we deliver it from the inside. We deliver it here from the Greek Parliament. There's no blood spilling. Not a single drop of blood is poured. We deliver it ourselves. We Greeks deliver it. We grant national sovereignty. It's black Friday or for those who didn't understand it, for you capitalists, "Black Friday" for Hellenism. Of course, I would also like to congratulate the Bolsheviks - I do not forget - the heads of the Greek citizen's ministry of "taxation and cracking" who drowned with tons of chemicals and did not ask for a single apology on Sunday. They drowned ten-year-olds. They drowned priests. They drowned nuns that weeped and held the Greek flag and didn't leave. I shook up when I saw them. They were nuns in the Constitution to cry from your tear gas and you didn't ask for a single apology. But he was there with a Greek flag. "Our name is our soul." You said it again. But you of the New Democracy because you say so, since you had granted it to Bucharest. And I'll come back to this. You are so democrats that you do not go out on the street, to the Greeks, here in the Constitution, to Thessaloniki throughout Greece to explain to them about this grand agreement you signed, this patriotic Prespecies Convention, which is about the trash of history, as you are, and the Greek people will send you, since you have been written first with the bruises on the pages of the glorious history of the Greeks. Dogs of the system have unleashed all these days to hunt the ordinary Greek citizens who were protesting for self-evidentness. We protest for self-evidently not to sell Greek territory. And yet you did. We ourselves against everyone here in Parliament. The Golden Dawn, the sixteen Members of the Golden Dawn and all of you. Because in addition to you saying and believing - you seem to believe them - there are some other false patriots in the New Democracy who had granted the name in Bucharest. And when we say the name, we mean the essence of the problem. Because when you give the name, you also grant ethnicity and language. So don't mock us that you had not accepted ethnicity and language. When you accept the words 'North Macedonia', their ethnicity is Macedonian - it is not North-Macedonian - and their language is Macedonian. All these days in here, but everyone, you're referring to the Golden Dawn, the absolute evil of the system, and you're saying about the splitting speech of the Golden Dawn. Can I ask you a simple question as a Greek citizen? Why should the speech of the Golden Dawn, which expresses the millions of Greeks, the vast majority of Greeks and is not divisive your reason for selling out Macedonia? So go out on the street and see. We're dating. We dare and go to the high-headed street because we didn't betray. You guys go out and see. For you to go out that you don't have a splitting speech, which you say so nicely, and you left-wing and you so-called right-wing, false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false-false. No, but you can't. You're getting some turbulences to support. They went out and said three hundred, three hundred, fifty dollots who sign up as intellectuals. If possible, someone will be signed as an intellectual! And within these intellectual left-wing, some SYRIZA bits, we read that she was also a sex worker. They're the ones you've got to sign. But the way I see you here and the rest of the people they've signed, the only thing that's really worked for is the sex worker in this life. Sarados Kargakos says that this nation's ruler, yours, Constantine Karamanlis, has sold everything out - he asked him: "Well, why are you cut off for Macedonia?" And he says: “Why am I cut? Because Macedonia is watered by the blood of the Greek Maniattes. It is watered with bones of Maniattes." And I will add: Thessalon and Athenians and Cretans and islanders. All Greeks ran to save Macedonia. Because, as Ionas Dragoumis said, "if we run to save Macedonia, Macedonia will save us". You're talking majorities. What majorities? Pick up the beans there, you poor bastards, to find a hundred and fifty three traitors. But let me tell you something, because as has been mentioned many times, the national is also the real one. When Alexander the Great was campaigning against the Persians, there were two camps: Alexander the Great and Darius. Guess which one he had most Greeks. Darius camp. So we here on Golden Dawn, the few unrepentant, are with the camp of Alexander the Great. And you're with Darius camp. We're with the Greeks. You're with the strangers, with the barbarians. And I will close with this: After the Skopje are so burned to be called Macedonians, there is a very simple and easy way to achieve it: to make a referendum and to join Greece to be officially called Macedonians. Because Macedonia is only here, it's Greek. And then, the words that have been spoken over the last few days will be true. Don't falsify the story. Our borders are as far as Serbia. Long live Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u106	Mrs Tyigoridou has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our borders are and will remain inviolable. There have been too many of these days in this Chamber. However, I would like to dwell on something, which I consider to be a very great stumbling block. Yesterday, in this Chamber, a former Prime Minister to defend his policy, fell - I believe - into a very big mistake. It has come to say that we who today have this most realistic agreement that could be made are not Greeks. The former Prime Minister of Greece said that we are not Greek. But let us look at this category and things in detail. For seventy years our neighbors have been stealing history. They declared descendants of Alexander the Great and the official Greek state whistled indifferently. So today, when for the first time with this agreement they admit that they have nothing to do with Greek history and antiquity, the former Prime Minister and member of the Officerial Response says that we are not Greeks. And why does he say that? Does it say that because we take back our history, our symbols and our culture? Is he blaming us because we managed to change the name of their airport and their streets? Does he blame us because under the statues, which were made with the silence and tolerance of the official Greek state, your governments, are now writing that these statues refer to ancient Greek history? He accuses us that we are not Greeks now because their language, as they themselves recognize and sign it in this agreement, is a Slavic language? Why don't you blame yourself respectively when the UN recognized Macedonian alphabet in 1977 and you silenced? Who was government in that country in 1977? Why don't you blame yourself when the UN recognized 1992 Macedonian language? Why didn't you react then? Who was the government in 1992? The first time after an attempt by our government they recognize that their language is Slavic and you blame us for that that we are not Greek. Are you accusing us of this and because for the first time - for the first time I repeat - and in writing and officially admit that there is no Macedonian minority in Greece? Is that why you're accusing us of not being Greek? Or are you blaming us because we managed to change the anti-corruption elements of their constitution? Who are you kidding? Who are you mocking at? Why don't you tell the Greek people the truth? Are you accusing us of the complex name, name with geographical identification and erga omnes? What have you wanted all these years? But you probably didn't know what you wanted, because yesterday Mr. Koumoutakis said to us that New Democracy, with pain of soul, accepted the complex name for Mr. Samaras to come and tell us that Macedonia is just one and immediately afterwards Mr. Mitsotakis to say that the Greek state has never attempted to monopolize that the entire geographical Macedonia is Greek. One of them undoes the other. What do you want? What's your proposal? Decide. Was your policy right or wrong over the past twenty years with Bucharest? You have told us that you have placed a prerequisite for the neighbouring country's European path to resolve the name. Did you tell us the truth that you did not allow any debate to take place on a European orientation? Because then your Prime Minister on December 5, 2011, Lucas Papademos said that Greece is seeking good neighbourly relations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and that is why he has supported Macedonia's European path in many cases. So since you have prevented it, tell us what - and I give it to the Minutes - Mr Papademos says? [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Olympia Tyloridou, submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our meeting today is historic because it closes a chapter in the modern political and diplomatic history of our country. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I would like one more minute, Madam President. It is now time for both printing and designing these two, to assess the situation and design the future are the guarantees to create a firm national strategy, but in which, unfortunately, you do not want to contribute creatively. You prefer to hide behind slogans that are touching, but they are misleading and you know it well. You know that our country can and must play a leading role in the Balkans, because if this role is not played by our own country, Turkey will play it, and it is not possible to sacrifice our national interests on the altar of micropoliticalism for the collection of some extreme right-wing votes. In national affairs too, micro-policy has no place and whenever the political forces of the country forgot it, then we had no good results.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u108	Finish it, Mrs. Tyloridou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u109	I will say one thing and I will be clear and reply to the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, who says that we are not Greeks: patriotism courses, I do neither do nor accept. I'm proud of my mouse root. I'm proud to be a Macedonian. I'm proud to be Greek. And all those heroes of the country - not your heroes - Trikos, Kotta, Agra, Paul Mela are not giving you. And we don't give you any gifts because they struggled for a safe and powerful Greece. They did not fight to leave for seventy years the counterfeiting of our history. We get our story back, we get our symbols back. We are not giving anything to anyone who belongs to us and want to see a bridge of peace and progress in the Balkans, the Mediterranean and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the General School of Mikrochori Imathia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with my position, I would like to make it clear because there is a lot to be said. My colleague, Mr Triantafylides, said so - he is present - on television show that we were in the same panel a few days ago, but I often hear it - densely from other Members of the House, especially from those who attract his origin from Macedonia. So he said that he allegedly took over a 'hot potato' and called on the citizens to see not what they want, but what we can achieve, what we can achieve, by obviously saying that they too would like a better agreement, but that is not possible. Mr. Triantafylides, your claim, except that he's offline, and the Prime Minister should pull your ears, is also false. No 'hot potato' has been undertaken and no obligation has been placed on you to open it, but even more so to close it in three months, an issue that no one has closed for thirty years. No one forced you to shut down the scorpion. Otherwise, let the Prime Minister go out and say that he was forced and blackmailed by someone and tell us by whom. On the contrary, both the Prime Minister and the former Foreign Minister, who signed this agreement, state proud of it and declare that it is an excellent agreement for the country. Therefore, no "hot potatoes" have been taken over. You chose to open and close the scout and you didn't get what you could, but exactly what you wanted. We do not forget that it was your party that in 2008 fought for our northern neighbours to achieve exactly what you granted them today with this agreement: name, language, ethnicity. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have received exactly what you wanted and, in this sense, it is justified that Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias feel proud of their success. Now the question is: Why did you choose to bring in and close in at any cost? The answer is complex. Firstly, why did you immediately have to throw the ball at the platform so that the world does not deal with the deadlocks of your economic destructive policy? You didn't, of course, figure out that the Greek above all puts his national conscience. You didn't figure out that you were digging your own pit. And that's right, you didn't figure it out. Because for you it's not so serious, it's not as important as the average Greek. Secondly, because you thought that by closing the scaffolding after thirty years, you would gain the favor of foreign forces, European and non-European, and in this way, you would obtain party benefits. Indeed, you have done that. Thirdly, because you thought that in this way you would be embarrassing the opposition, both the minor, but mainly the New Democracy, and in part you have achieved it. You've broken up one party, Potami, you've hurt another, KINAL, you've incorporated one third, the ANELs. But not only did the New Democracy destroy it, but instead, you smashed it, strengthened it, made it happen. Well, actually, now. The government started a negotiation without any consultation, without any other institution - parties, political leaders, President of the Republic -, a negotiation that was condemned from the outset to fail, primarily because the Greek Government did not believe it. She didn't believe her ideologically, above all. We have all heard Mrs Christodoulopoulos say that Mr. Tsakalotos was proud that in 2008 the Skopje wanted to be called "Macedonians" as well. The placement of Mr. Friend is SYRIZA's official ideological position. But it was doomed, ladies and gentlemen, to fail this negotiation for another reason. Because it started from what the government should seek to be the last part of the negotiation, the name. The negotiation, ladies and gentlemen, should have as the starting point the resolution of all the satisfactorily agreed issues, and only then, the negotiation should have taken place at the next stage, which is finding a commonly accepted name, complex or not. You, on the contrary, either by incompetence or because you wanted to save and, in the best way, to finish with this agreement, you accepted and granted everything, a name and everything else you were asked for. Of course, the question arises as to what type of negotiation this was when you were prepared to surrender to the point where you were ready to accept the name 'Iliden Macedonia' and withdraw it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little tolerance, Your Honor. And finally, stop asking us, supposedly, to embarrass us if we would accept one name or another. Why don't we answer what we'd accept and what we don't. Why don't we answer you. Because we are going to really negotiate, from scratch, at all levels, if we are able today to avoid this harmful agreement going through. For Mr. Kammenos, I will not spend ten seconds from my short speech. It's not worth it. All I'm going to say is that Mr. Kammenos is the epitome of what we call "free man" and no more what he says, no matter what. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. The truth is one. Anyone who votes for this agreement supports this government as a whole gives a vote of confidence. Anyone who votes today "yes", supports the education of the retrieval of excellence, supports the client state of over 100 thousand recruits from the window to the public, supports the policy of replacing work with benefits, the bleeding of funds for investment in the altar of unnecessary surpluses, supports the government of DEPA, Petsite, Papa, Kalogerica. Anyone who votes today 'yes' supports insecurity, horror, rubico-coupondins, supports the attempt to manipulate justice and to dismantle the division of powers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u112	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u113	Finally, anyone who votes today 'yes' should bear in mind that he supports Mr Polakis, Mr Katrugalos, Mr Papagelopoulos, Mr Skourletis, Mr Kurublis, and above all, supports Mr Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen, your good vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Treasury has the floor and then Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Mr. Fotella, I object to why you didn't say anything about me. Thank you very much. Elections are coming, and you should have said something. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is a very long day. And it is very great for both the Greek people and the nation, mainly, at the same time, it is for our neighbours that we want to coexist with them. As you know, in our region, the Middle East, the Near East, now and at least ten and eleven years, we are in a fire-fighting zone, where it produces more facts than history and the situation can absorb. Of course, as you can see, we are also at a time when we are likely to change the areas of influence, because large powers and peoples are moving and being destroyed. However, because Greece is at a serious crossroads in this region, in the eastern Mediterranean, we are also partly involved in all these events, because we absorb a large number of immigrants and refugees from all these disasters. Therefore, in this climate that we are basically in need of our foreign policy to maintain stability and to be a pillar of peace and coexistence of the peoples of our region. In the Balkans, in this regard, we have a practical penetration of the Muslim arch by Turkey. Imagine that Albania is currently building the largest mosque of all Europe that will be able to house around seven to seven and a half thousand people. Secondly, there is an illegal army of four thousand men and three thousand mercenaries in Kosovo. Illegal. There is a serious civil war in Bosnia. In Serbia last week we have had the visit of the President of the Russian Federation, Mr Putin, to effectively settle and pressure the Serbs in order to calm down in relation to the Balkan region. So this Treaty and the Prespecies Agreement come, which we brought and accelerate, because at least twenty-five, thirty years ago there was all the governments, but they did not have the power or political eloquence to present it to the Greek people, to end the problem with our northern neighbours. So this agreement comes to end the problems we had and we would have had if there were no such agreement with our northern neighbours. They change their country's name, they change their constitution, they change their symbols, they maintain the borders with us, which will be inviolable, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other, they effectively eliminate their gluttonates. So this country's entry into international organisations, NATO and the European Union is actually putting them into international rules so that they are not uncontrollable. So peace in the region and coexistence and people's partnership are being established. Ladies and gentlemen, we are closing down a serious chapter that has spent huge diplomatic time and we will now be free to devote ourselves to the East-West danger and problem on the Turkish side. I wanted to add this: Outside the parties, but also the commitments of all Members of Parliament, you must consult, ladies and gentlemen, Article 60 of the Constitution, paragraph 1, which states that you have an unlimited right to vote consciously. Don't get locked up on party lines. You should not be celebrating and acting out of emotion, which is now overflowing throughout the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Deed. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, the debates and decisions on the Macedonian are not about the past, but about the future of the country. How do we get out of the crisis? How will we gain a strong national self-confidence, not underestimating the neighbours and others, but by exploiting the great potential of the Greek people in Europe's modern environment, with the Balkans not in the role of eternal fighter and of the European silhouette, but within a subsystem of economic cooperation within the European Union, as is the case with the other southern countries, but also with the northern countries? Among the causes of the crisis we are experiencing is the new national genius which, after 1989, distorted the national fantasy and allowed the existing social and political forces to build its clay feet - within introductory words -'strong Greece', with depreciation of the national but also of the social others. It has allowed a rematch to be made against democratic transformation. This was a demonstration of power over the weak. This hollow demonstration of power was linked to the armour race, in the name of the country's security, and we all know today that it was the greenhouse of hatred and corruption. We are slowly coming out of the crisis, but the new national course requires new values and a great reform of the political system. What new values, however, can the electoral patriocardialism and the slogan "Macedonia is one and Greek", which exposes Greece as a country that inciting perversion or the cries "Democracy sells Macedonia" can inspire? What values can return to the days of the Civil War, the question again of the patriotism of millions of Greek democrats by a hysterical leadership of the right, again starring Antonis Samaras, who, in yesterday's speech, kidnapped New Democracy and led it to the era of EPE? This extreme right-wing regression at the expense of a large people's democratic party does not happen, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - which I see you suffocate - with halves and much more silence. Mr. Samaras was raw. He charmed his Macedonian adventure, falsifying the historical truth and attempting a selective formation of events. He remembered "the tear" of Constantine Karamanlis, but forgot his dismissal - and indeed, in a cheeky way - by the then President of the Republic at the meeting of the political leaders. He forgot Constantine Mitsotakis and the overthrow of his government, which he has caused in conditions that are described since then under the terms 'complex'. The most amazing of all is that Mr Samaras forgot that in his prime ministership, in order to remain in power, among his "apologies" to the lenders, he forgot his position on the Macedonian and was forced to join hypocritically and technically - as his current attitude proves - in the national line of the composite name. Mr Samaras told us yesterday that the Treaty of Bucharest did not distribute geographical Macedonia into three states, with the late construction that there was no geographical Macedonia. Dozens of presumptions, studies, school books, encyclopedias, all that constitute the ark of knowledge in Greece in the last century, disguise Mr. Samaras' irresponsible claim, which is not only childish, but also conceals the line of pervertism, threatening once again to put our country into adventures. For the record, the geographical term "North Macedonia" is already being used by the Meso-war. The solution of the Macedonian with a compromise that ensures the necessary interest and stability in the region is a historic development. That is why the political system is being restructured, as has happened in other historical times of our national life. This time, with the Left in the government, there are conditions of reconstructing the political system, reflecting the struggles and interests of the people's and middle classes. The creation of a new majority, social, democratic current with programming objectives for the many, with democratic values, this new majority social current politically is formed in a progressive pole with the left, but without hegemony, open to the sensitivities of the wider progressive space, in harmony with also processes observed in the area of social democracy, ecologists, radical left in Europe, in conflict with neoliberalism, nationalism, racism and anti-immigrant hysteria at the extreme right of all kinds. It's time of historical responsibility. No pretext can justify controversy between left-wing and progressive forces, because our people will not forgive a practice that, in the name of a so-called anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist intransigence, weakens the front to the reactionary forces and opens housekeepers. With awareness of the history of the moments we are addressing the new generation, with the promise that we can create a Greece that responds to dreams, labors, their expectations, with a decent job for all and a full education, without inequality. This perspective serves "yes" in the Prespecies Agreement, for an extrovert rather than fearful Greece, in an equal international position. And that spirit of the Prespecies must go everywhere. The New Democracy of Mr. Samaras returns to EPE's time and wants to return us to the Civil War. It is what has said another top circus on the "defective ideas of the Left, which must be prevented by state interference". Is there a worse threat to the nation than national division and coups? Faced with this appalling challenge, who can remain improperly neutral or even worse than a useful idiot? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u118	Thank you. Mr. Vorides has the floor. Here comes Mr. Syrigos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now four years since the dawn day... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] ...that you deceive the Greek people, telling him that you will abolish HNVIA, that you will reinstate the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, that you will increase the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u120	We're increasing it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u121	Now, now, yeah! Of course, the Greeks believed you, they chose you for that. Of what you were elected for, they didn't take anything. You broke the middle class into the taxes, you broke all the productive classes in the insurance contributions, but what do you give them for a present you believed in the four-year period? The sellout of Macedonia you give them! That's the reality. Four years later, that's the balance sheet. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth a few basic words here. You know, you've been in great trouble, great effort all these days to say a basic argument. What? That we're all the same. And that's what we did, isn't it? It's a good thing you guys did it better. That was the main argument. I want to clarify something. There is no one in the New Democracy who wished or wished to resolve this issue at any time with the concession of our Macedonia. Not even one! But you, ladies and gentlemen, are proud. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You told us here, in this Chamber, in this debate that you are proud to have gone in wanting a solution under the name of Macedonia, neither Northern nor Complex nor anything. Isn't that right, Madam President? You're proud, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u122	I'll answer you, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u123	In fact, since you were proud, why did you want a solution with Macedonia as a whole, how can you not consider what you have brought today? Well, that's all right, that's all. Why, with those perceptions, what did we expect you to bring? But Mr. Tsipras is one and only. A unique one, who continues - notice - the tradition of the Macedonian left. She didn't continue with the JRC. The JRC has come today, changed its political position since then, talked about other historical political circumstances, and Mr. Tsipras showed up to fight it because he is not in that position. And you go on. But of course: Lenin and Trump, Mr. Tsipras. Both of them together, at the same time! At the same time! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Since the international juncture is going to work today, shouldn't we give it to you? And be careful: Here's where you're naked. Because from where you were trying to create internal issues and supposedly some of us like this, all those who claim to be in the line of yours, one behind Mrs Bakoyannis, who had handled the matter, and stripped you. He got you naked. He humiliated you. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Show the size of your concession. Because all these governments were asked to recognise ethnicity, they were asked to recognise language, they were asked to recognise people. No one did that. Tsipras did this. You're on your own in history in this. No national lines. No national consensus. No national policy. Your position. And when we are called upon to interpret it, Mr. Tsipras himself gave us the answer. Since you don't care, since you wanted a solution called "Macedonia", since you never gave a dime on the national issue, you are a national minority government. And so many days your argument is more skeptical than the Skopje! Skopier than the Skopje!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u124	Please. Okay. It's the last interventions. Hang in there. These things characterize those who call them. Everyone understands.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u125	Get out of the Minutes, Madam President. ‘National dividend’ in the Greek Parliament in 2019; He's back in a post-war period. Let the President take a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u126	The skeletons come out of the closets. Mr. Syragos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. I did not mean to refer out of text and out of today's question, but I am obliged to say that today there is a anniversary that states the loss of government by New Democracy and its consistent partner. At an eternal memorial of this loss, which apparently has not been believed. But what do we do? There was a loss.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u128	You'll understand that in the elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u129	I'm talking about now. In the elections we'll see. A Prophet never existed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Yakumato, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u131	Well, let's know, because we're talking about loss, everyone's missing something. Sic transit gloria mundi. But let me. I do not like these misappropriations, because we are creating an atmosphere that is not good for the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, only the historical and legal approach of things, when politics is absent, leads to dogmatism and dead ends. I will attempt a more political approach and try to avoid repetitions in a dialogue effort rather than a conflict. That's why I didn't want to start like this. I was forced because I was provoked. Foreign policy issues are complex and related to the transport of containers. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. The ordering of years of diligent and reasoned issues in order to address the most peak for the next few years, which focuses on the Aegean, Cyprus and the Eastern Mediterranean, must set our priorities. At the same time, strong alliances must be built, the consolidation of stability at the north and not just at our borders and the increased deterrent power of our Armed Forces, something that the government is taking care of. The aptly deviated, in a study by Professor Sotirios Bellos, "Dardanelles' eclipses" has been awakened for a long time and has been at the centre of the area from Crimea to Suez. Foreign policy means, above all, timely, predictive and correct hierarchical choices. In this context, the Presidencies' Agreement shows us that its faithful implementation is the area to which the emphasis should be placed. Opposition ignores this incorrectly and serves in mammothry which can only be of a proclamation, while being chainy and chimeiric. At the same time it provokes popular masses and creates divided passions in a society rather prone to them. Instead of proclaiming cancellations and other sounds like this, it will do well, if it can, to structure its policy, focusing on monitoring and observing the agreement, even though this is a privileged field for the government, since it has come to an end, trying to use it for the benefit of the country. I therefore propose to the opposition that it turn to its directions and policy, because the circumstances and the criterion of national interest require it. If I have a lower voice to listen to, then let him listen to the voice of the relentless Panagiotis Kanellepoulou who says that "the passing of time creates new conditions for everyone's political attitude. Its change when it responds to the national interest at a certain point is not inconsistent with morality.’ ‘This confided a few months before his death.’ It is an excerpt from the related book of Constantine Slavopoulos. And if that makes it easier, like most of our leaders, from Eleftherios Venizelos to Constantine Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou, when he imposed the country's national interest. One more thing. Investment in procedural matters reveals non-existence of positions. Criticism, objections and objections are not a proposal to show at the same time another weakness of the opposition, which lies in following and simply stumbling the one who has the real initiative of moves, namely the government. Finally, such a procedural attitude betrays politics itself, since it appears in the eyes of the people as a term and not as a creation. Ladies and gentlemen, politics is not a trick. I conclude by saying that the privileged field in which the debate will take place in the next few years is Cyprus. That's where we'll all count. The Cyprus question, because it is often forgotten, is an international problem of invasion and occupation. I would like to say to you and to close with that, that the national interest is best served when you look at the side with which your interests are identified. The game has been opened in both the world and the region. And whoever's not aware of it, it's going to be a punk. Anyone who doesn't understand it can't rule. So whoever has another proposal, let him express it very well now, even though he is not behind regularity and procedure. As we have already said, politics is not a trick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Madam President. I heard from him yesterday, Mr. Tsipras, more prejudicial and ironic than ever. And I suppose that is the way it happens to someone who is enough to talk, but also to consult the strong players of the international scene more than the Greek people? To triumph on the one hand and, on the other, to transfer all responsibility to the product of the negotiation that led to the Agreement in the old system and, in particular, to the New Democracy, does it appear that the agreement will not be given so much for triumphs? As a Greek Macedonian, however, I am proud to say that, Madam President, this agreement insults my national conscience, because it describes my place as a northern region of the first place and I do not feel any more than two million Greek Macedonians as inhabitants of a northern region, a first part, because in the agreement you brought, it was as if you were ashamed to mention that there are Greek Macedonia. Before that, however, this bad agreement has been ratified by the government majority and the Members of Parliament who are prepared to join us, its basic terms have already been violated by the Skopje contractors. Because the constitutional review in the neighbouring country has not been completed by the end of the year, as it explicitly stipulates a specific article, and because the revised constitution of the neighbour with integrated and codified the agreed amendments to its text has not yet been tabled in the House. On the Internet, the responsible Deputy Minister downloaded the previous text, the current Skopje constitution. And pressing, pressing, Mr President-in-Office, is also a very important element in the scope of international law. Therefore, today, on the day of the vote, the basic condition of the Agreement is not met, namely, the first completion of all constitutional procedures in FYROM and then the ratification procedure in the Greek Parliament. What does all this mean? That the Members who intend to vote in favour today are unable to verify the amendments to the neighbour's Constitution at the moment. So they're giving Skopje a white check. They shall grant a name, national identity and language, against uncleanness and without definitive proof of exchanges. Even one real estate to buy, ladies and gentlemen, you're signing a sales contract, which describes the property's details exactly. When no one is interested in verifying exactly, with full control of the contract, the elements of this property are not even negligence, it is a risk to the family's interests, even for nonsense. These days, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and our President in particular, have shown how bad the agreement is to the point of view. Let me focus on a sub-point and connect it to an interesting judicial story that also matters to its meaning. One of the most bad points, then, of the Agreement is that Macedonian language is being given to the neighbour. Thus, the Greek-speaking national argument concerning a constructed language which the Greek side had been invoking for decades is undone by the Greek-speaking partnership. The Government celebrates the footnote stating the obvious: South Slavic dialect. But we all know that self-evident, as a footnote, will soon be forgotten. But listen to this: there is a decision on the 1448 2009 Ice Arena. She considered the appeal brought by the association under way - it has not been recognised - under the name "Macedonian Civilisation Station", there on Florina, which called for another decision of the Appeals Court of Western Macedonia, which had rejected the request of the association to be officially recognised. Interestingly, in a specific article of the statutes which the association underwent for approval, it was stated, among other things, that it was intended to preserve and cultivate the Macedonian language - makkonski. In his reasoning, the appeal, which was then supported by the Marios Ice, states that there is no Macedonian nation and, consequently, Macedonian language and Macedonian culture, nor of course exists in Greece a Macedonian minority. It goes without saying that a mosaic of ethnic groups cannot be understood in sixty years, from 1944 to 2005 as the decision was made, to obtain an ethnic identity based on disguised historical evidence. In his decision, the Marios Ice accepted the point of view of the Court of Appeal, rejected the appeal, did not allow the recognition of a union entitled "Macedonian Culture House". In the composition of the court, as rapporteur of the case, Areopagite, then, Mr. Royal Death. I'm putting the decision in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm opening a parentheses because I'm talking about Mrs. Thanos. The legal advisor to the Prime Minister, Mr Thanos, was only taken yesterday by the former government partner, Mr Kammenos, that he intervened in justice. Mr Kammenos said yesterday from the most official and public step in the country, that of the House, "Your ladies' counsellors, Prime Minister, tell the judges "let this go for the next". You think this isn't serious? Whether she's a bride or a groom, I don't care about this strange marriage that ended a while ago. The sure thing is divorce is bloody and it already produces laundry that comes out at the forum. So we are waiting for the reaction of Greek justice to the complaints that the Legal Counsel of Prime Minister "beating phones" to judges at this time. I'm closing my parentheses, and I'm finishing up. When Mrs Thanos does not communicate with judges, she is monitoring the Prime Minister to recognise the existence of a Macedonian language, makedoncki, with the Prespecies Treaty which she has brought, of course, overthrowing what the judge herself had thought. It is obviously not written with the theory that the Macedonian language had been recognized by the New Democracy since 1977. But tomorrow another Greek judge will have his hands tied up by this Treaty and will not be able to do anything other than recognise unions for the purpose of disseminating the Makedoncki language. And so will open the way to haunting the existence of a Macedonian minority in Greece, so that is how the seaweeds of the neighbors are in place, so the academy of Ailos opens up. Ladies and gentlemen, let us consider our responsibility towards history, against the past and the future of the country and vote accordingly. Anyone who doesn't understand, doesn't know where he's going and where he's going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u134	Madam President, I would like to speak on a small sixty-second speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u135	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u136	Some things have been heard in this Chamber for national dealers. It's exactly what stabbing people say out of the Chamber coming up against the Republic. Those who say so, the descendants of the dictators and the neo-fascist partners, must know that Parliament is in any event not a chasapotaver in Mandra to talk to the audiences of the far right and the taverns. I also ask the New Democracy colleagues to understand what is happening here at the moment, when we unanimously condemn the attacks and arsonism to members of the Greek Parliament and to understand what the descendants of the dictators and the axes say, to what they call and what signals they give the Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Stamatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to deal with the content of the Agreement. So much has been said that it is unnecessary for me to do so too. Besides, who am I going to address? The SYRIZA MPs, the majority of whom would be even happier if we were to give the name Macedonia wide? But, seeing Mr Philly, I am going to give a little parenthesis, since he has been particularly concerned with Mr Samaras. Mr. Samaras hurts, I understand that. Yesterday, Mr. Tsipras confirmed himself as a permanent liar, said that Mr. Samaras had correspondence with Gruevski. He did. Why don't you ask your chief to tell you what Samara's letter was writing? Samaras replied to Gruevski inviting them to meet with him by saying, "No. Under these positions you are expressing, there can be no debate and a meeting.' That's what he said. But he hid it, because he's a merciless Alexis. Now, let's go to the issues I want to raise. I would like to raise three points. The first theme: You have been cutting off all these days for national line. What national line? How did this national line come about? You carved it yourself?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u139	No, we, you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u140	What we have always done on national issues was national understanding, information for the parties, debate. Mrs. Bakoyannis gave you all the evidence yesterday about how we behaved. How about you? Who negotiated? The Prime Minister? A Prime Minister who didn't know that the sea also has borders? A Prime Minister who didn't even know what "Iliden" means. And a Minister, who was directly accused by his co-chairman, Mr. Kammenos, of having been leased by Mr. Soros. I don't know which is true, you'll find it between you two. But the complaint is serious. And strangely - as I would say - the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena sits down, it is only up to Mr Kotzias to file complaints against Mr Kammenos as if this were a private dispute. This is a complaint from the Minister of Finance! When you were about to be dragged through the "NOVARTIS" process two Prime Ministers and eight Ministers, you relied on three anonymous pseudonyms. And when your government's Minister comes to denounce this, Mrs. Demetrius makes the fool? He didn't listen? Was that a trip? Of course, another paradox has happened. While the Prime Minister congratulated Mr. Kotzias on his achievement, on the same day that Mr. Kammenos accused him of money, he led him out, saying he should come down, if he wants, from the train. What happened? Wasn't the agreement he made a success, or did he believe in Kammenos's words? In these, gentlemen, society expects answers. Who and how they negotiated. Secondly, who will ratify the Convention? This House? So a minority government that is on the way, two nonexistent parties and five, six roaming MPs? Will you take the burden of such a great national decision? And they don't shake your legs from anxiety and anxiety, do you think you're wrong? Ladies and gentlemen, this House has no real political legitimacy. It has no political legitimacy to make such a decision, at the same time as the foundation of the democratic culture, the people, is outside and is protesting. And the proportion of protesters is over 70%. Where did you get that right? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, in closing my speech, as a Member of the Greek Parliament, I ask the President of the Republic to take a stand. We've all taken place, government, parties, MPs. For a matter of such importance, the first Greek to take a stand. He has done it before on the same issue many times. It has intervened, sometimes by stating that the Agreement is about good and sometimes by sending strict messages to Zafe. We now have the final text. On the final text and on the substance, in particular on two points, what does it have to say? One of the points to which the President was committed was that he will never accept the 'Macedonian language'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Stopatis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u142	I shall conclude, Madam President. And the "Macedonian language" came to the House in writing and evidently even, with the argument on the part of the Government that this has already been recognized by Greece, the Greek Government, when the Prime Minister was Constantine Karamanlis. False! So he has an obligation to take place, as a university teacher and as an experienced politician. Is it or isn't it? Secondly, it was denounced by all the parties - and that is the case, Mr Katrugalos admitted it - that here we do not have an official constitution text, we do not have the revised constitution. We have a constitution under sect to vote first and then them. There is a commitment from the President of the Republic that the application of Article 42 of the Constitution also finds ground on it. In other words, there is a problem of constitutionality in voting for this law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u143	Come on, Mr. Stamatis. Respect the speakers who are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u144	For these reasons, I call on the President of the Republic to take a position. I don't know what position it's gonna take. It's his thing. What I know is he's not entitled to not take a position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Selchas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u146	Madam President, seven to eight minutes each? We'll stay unclaimed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u147	But you're applauding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u148	What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u149	What am I supposed to do? What am I, a turf?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u150	Today is the Members' day, as the Thanksgiving day says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u151	Here, Mr. Selcha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a matter identified as national. It was always accompanied by censorship and recorded silences. For years the public manifestation of a different opinion has been an anti-national or suspicious act, treason or auction, and in any case has been subject to restrictions. The Presidencies' Agreement must be voted on and, indeed, I will be voting in favour of it, as I think it solves a great problem between countries and creates good prospects for the future. This agreement was the best that our country could achieve, as far as possible under peaceful conditions, through mutual retreat from both sides, with a positive result. There are no victorious and defeated winners of this agreement. There is only a serious prospect of developing stable relations in the Western Balkans, which is absolutely positive for Greece. We have a balanced agreement, with diplomatic benefits satisfying the 2008 national line for a complex name with geographical identification, with effect for all uses, an agreement that provides for the revision of the neighbouring country's constitution to eradicate algorithms. Already our neighbours in the private communication say that the Agreement does not recognise nationality, but citizenship. The ratification of this agreement ensures friendship, peace and the coexistence of stable relations in the region. The history and culture of ancient Macedonia, which has nothing to do with the modern culture of the neighbouring country, is enshrined. In fact, neighbors are committed to changing school books and not using Macedonian symbols. The official language of the neighbouring country is clearly mentioned as belonging to the group of southern Slavic languages and has nothing to do with the history and culture of ancient Macedonia. The same goes for the financial communication. The Prespecies Agreement upgrades economic and geostrategic positions in the Balkans, as cooperation is expanding in a number of areas, such as trade, agriculture, the economy, energy, the environment, tourism and transport. I would like to mention at this point an issue that I have raised before. The opening of the Frontier Station of the Prespecies Liaison, which has been closed since the 1970s, depriving us of visitors and currency, must now be done, as part of a renewed relationship of trust with our neighbours. On the occasion and management of the Balkan Prespecies Park, it could open up again, giving the local economy a breath, promoting sustainability, sustainable development and the protection of the region. If we want to do the searches today on all these historic issues that we are discussing, we need to give some thought to them, but it can only come to the following conclusion. The Embassy Agreement not only solves outstandingities of almost thirty years but also historical loose ends that have been inherited from history to the peoples of the region. Let's not forget. In representing the people of Florina, the bordering area with FYROM, I have to say before the House that my fellow citizens coexist in peace with the neighbours and accept to the great extent this serious attempt to resolve the issue of the name. Important personalities from our region, such as Nikolaos Merzos, former President of Macedonian Studies Society, George Lianis, former Minister of PASOK, Giannis Boutaris, Mayor of Thessaloniki have been openly in favour of the Prespecies Agreement, but also many ordinary citizens want a solution to the name. Those who have a different view of the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement are not citizens without knowledge of history, but citizens who have successfully assimilated national ideology, as reproduced by the dominant mechanisms for the reproduction of ideas and the media all these years. Let us think, ladies and gentlemen, where the distortions, stereotypes, collective wounds on the Macedonian issue have led to this all these years and how they can finally be transformed today through collective consultation and historical knowledge into social peace and a reduction in judicial charges. The Embassy Agreement promotes a policy of friendship, sobriety and respect for its neighbour, creates stable foundations for peace, cooperation and ultimately contributes to the healing and healing of historical injuries in the Balkan region. But it is an enormous historic opportunity to bring together all the progressive forces in this country. Contrary to patriocardialism, which is unfortunately perceived by some as patriotism, real patriotism is to love your country and serve it in such a way as to promote the friendship of the peoples. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his bravery and documented speech. The reference to Macedonian political refugees who did not have the right to repatriation in '83 with the racist law Skulariki - Genuines and the reference to Irene Grein are prestigious, dear companions of the JRC, who will deal with them on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to be succeeding in Step by the dear companion. A great deal has been said in our debate and the legal issues of a convention that we are called upon to vote on have been substantiated. I won't extend to them. But I will tell you that I have the honour of being elected to the Greek Parliament, at first as a member and on course as the head of the national delegation, to represent our Parliament at the parliamentary assembly of the process of cooperation in the south-eastern Europe, in which I join with representatives of Parliaments of twelve states, all the states which have emerged from the dissolution of Yugoslavia. We recognise our common geopolitical position and agree that only through cooperation and consensual procedures we can strengthen it, through the peaceful resolution of our differences. That is precisely what we want to build our future on. Two streets away from our home all wars in the world are raging together. The Eastern issue has never been resolved and we insist on the pattern of conflict and total prevalence. We cannot forget that the Macedonian question is part of the Eastern issue. We cannot forget that between the Hellenistic times and the modern era of the nations - states and the European Union, they interceeded a Roman, a Byzantine and an Ottoman Empire. We have not jumped since the death of Alexander the Great in modern Greek democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, in political choice, whether you take the path of consensus and compromise or the path of conflict with a view to total prevalence. Needless to say, what we systematically choose from the birth of the Greek state and what the results were when the conservative forces, the forces of the right that have supported all these years with passion the idea of the nation - state, what disastrous consequences it has had for our country. Civil and dictatorship are some bad testimonies. This model of politics, which you are urging us to follow not only opposes, but also demonises the Treaty of Ambassadors, conflict, level the neighbours, veto us, depends on their integration into the Western world. This does not apply to this JRC. The JRC has another perspective. I'll come back if I can. It is not just the fascists of the Golden Dawn, unfortunately we heard it from the former Prime Minister yesterday. And what's the future, sir? So, listening to Stavros Theodorakis yesterday, I agree with most of his speech. You are judging colleagues who vote individually, but you are forgetting that these people are expressing parties that have taken their seats. And the river and the DIMAR are in place. KINAL may be with "Y" from now on, "Green Change", but, unfortunately, its current attitude will be written in history. At the end of World War II, the European countries searched for a way to catch up in the next war, with the regime that prevailed at that time on the planet. This is how the European Union was born. This was how the European acquis was formulated. What the Prespecies Agreement does is we're giving something and we're getting something. We transcend our national egoism and see away, beyond the borders, beyond 2019, in the essence of the matter. This is how we strengthen our national interests, Greece and Northern Macedonia two states that identify a framework of coexistence. They accept each other's rights, to exist first and finally to take a stand against the modern European and global crisis. The good neighbourship relationships, ladies and gentlemen, built with our neighbour - and the strong neighbour is our eastern neighbour and not our northern neighbour - pay off when they are good and deliver to the peoples. I want to talk about the people. I want us to look the people in the eye, not to be ashamed to say that we must respect them and recognize the truths that exist. The Greek state once recognized the Slavs in our region. Bulgarian was the interests defended by the Greek government, which did not defend them, others had interests. I conclude by saying this, in 1994-1995 and I, as a student, joined my school in condolences for Macedonia. There they first heard: "The border with Serbia", "Macedonia is one and Greek", "Northern Greece is northern Greece", "Greek Macedonia is Greek Macedonia". Obviously it does not refer to the "Greek Macedonia", because this is northern Greece. We are not a confederate state. The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, which is to be called the 'North Macedonia', comes from a confederation of states, which was always called that and you knew it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u155	Thank you. Mr. Emmanoulidis has the floor and then Mr. Katsafandos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest risk to human beings is that fear, fear and fear of all kinds of self-confidence, of pure thought, of reasoning, of fear of self-destructive behaviour, eventually becoming a vehicle for self-destructive behaviour. When fear characterizes individuals, so far there's an understanding. When fear starts to become an exportable product in trying to dissolve all thought cleanness, every cleanness of intent, from there and then it becomes criminal conduct. The greatest fear is fear of facing the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, let us finally speak clearly. You are accusing us of reducing behaviour, of all the things that you are going out in the form of a poem on national anniversaries, you say your poem about language concessions, about a national concession. Let's be refreshing in thinking. What did we have? At best, we had the term Macedonia through the Interim Agreement and we had nothing more than that. What we get is, I think, deposited and controlled by history, because within a temperature such that has been created all this time, they cannot come out purely exported, the ears are toasted. History is the one that will record and we need to be careful, because the public word that is written by this Step is not a reason why it can be dropped. So the responsibilities of all of us will follow us until the end of our natural life, but they will certainly be material to make use of the history of the future. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well, is not the terms of the agreement that we are going to sign, because they cannot stand any criticism at all. Pretenses in sin and trial of salvation are all these lies, you know it very well first, but the guilty and criminal is that you are trying this fear - I will talk to you about the real fear that involves you - to disperse him into society. And that's the most dangerous thing in this case. What's the real fear? The real fear is that you are experiencing four whole years today. I mean, the lovers came from where the hell they came from and they took the bite out of our mouths. There have been tenants and while we have made a secret contract with ourselves and the supporters of this plan that they will be completely temporary, two-month, three-monthly - parentheses you said so - there is a four-year government with a prospect of renewal for another four years. And you know why? Because we are relying precisely on this power of truth, one truth that we are communizing with society, one that feeds up all these difficult days of the four years that we have spent these days here. We were not the Members who galantically treated them. We were and we are the ones who every day fight against a system that rabies seeks to overthrow us with one single purpose, reconfiguration. Reconstruction, however, as a condition, is a return to something historically condemned. That's what you keep in mind. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have all the power, all the will to take responsibilities that do not account for us. However, with regard to historical responsibility, we have precisely this mental power and this historical consciousness to go further. Let's move further not on SYRIZA, but on a people seated for eight years. While we have a few months that we really breathe and implement and leave our social footprint, you are trying in every way for a thousand or two reasons to halt this course. The people have a memory, they have a crisis and they also have an instinct of social self-reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. Mr Katsafandos then Mr Michos and Mrs Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's meeting is one of the most important things that has been done in the Greek Parliament since postmopulation, because we are talking about a crucial national and historical issue. I think that in such a type of meeting, each colleague should reflect on and measure himself with his beliefs, conscience, principles, values and not with his party identity. Allow me, therefore, to present the views which I shall be presenting is not the product of a party line, because I believe that there should be no party line in national matters. On the contrary, we must listen and serve the will of the Greek people. With this in mind, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I blame you. I blame you for bringing a nationally harmful agreement to the Greek Parliament. I blame you for splitting up instead of uniting the Greek citizens around this critical national issue. You have never called on the board of political leaders, never met the Foreign Policy Council, unlike what Mr Zaev has done. I blame you because through this agreement, counterfeiting the national line - because you lie to the national line - you give our northern neighbours the language and identity. You hide the truth, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because we all know in this Chamber that after the vote on this agreement there will be 'North Macedonia', made up of Macedonian citizens and speaking the Macedonian language. You do not respect the agreement you signed either, since it was undeniably written as the basic term of this Prespecies Agreement that the amendments to the Skopje constitution will first pass and then come for ratification in the Greek Parliament. And if the excuse that the Prime Minister said yesterday is true, there is another way to the Skopje parliament, then it seems that this agreement was written on the leg and it was very rough. But you do not respect, ladies and gentlemen, the country's strength, as Mr Nimic said yesterday that if our country does not sign and ratify this agreement, the disasters will be great and will be very damaging. Finally, you do not respect the great majority of the Greek people, over 70% of the public opinion, which is against this agreement. It is not just transnationalists, it is not diplomats, it is not constitutionalists, it is not us who are politically confronted with you. It is the entire Greek people, ladies and gentlemen. They're your people too. It's Mickey Theodorakis who said it's a dangerous deal. Is Aphrodite Manos - SYRIZA not voted for in the previous elections? - which says it's a disastrous deal. All you are interested in is creating artificial majorities and with a rope of willing Members you can save the country's future. But I listened very carefully to the arguments of both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister - whom, instead of honouring him, you sent him away immediately after this great, successful agreement that you have made - and many SYRIZA colleagues. You told us that you were part of the national line. Is that true? And when were you behind the national line, gentlemen and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Were you in 1992 when you said Macedonian, in 2008, that the Skopje are Macedonians or today? Did you do your self-criticism? I have heard too many SYRIZA colleagues. The best negotiators of the Macedonians are in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen. And that's sad. The Skopje did not use the UN Conference in Athens in 1977, which is a text of a technical nature, as Mr Babiniotis says, who then took part in the committee. You used it to hide the truth. This is the painful reality. You're telling us that Skopje has been identified by a hundred forty countries. May I remind you how many countries they had recognized East Germany? All of them! Was there a country in the western, eastern world or some non-aligned country that had not recognised East Germany? Only the Western Germans had not recognized her. That's the reality. And if the Skopje want us to recognize them as Macedonians, no one else will have the right to not recognize them in the world. That is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, and you are doing what you are not aware of. Of course, you said the tragic thing about creating a new road map for the economy, for Thessaloniki and Macedonia, as if you were cutting off for the economy with all that you have done over the last four years. I have heard something else that the national issue with Skopje has been misguided. It is - it says - too many years that arouses the country. And who told you that national issues must be resolved if they do not close the chain of alphabeticalism and it is not certain that there will be no greater problems in the future? There are no solutions to the national issues, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President, if I may. I heard another argument. Why does the New Democracy blame us when the Skopje opposition accuses Zaev? Are we going to identify ourselves with them? The Skopje opposition, ladies and gentlemen, said they were the descendants of the Macedonians. And what does Mr. Zafe say to them? That they'll be the only ones called Macedonians all over the world. It closes their eyes and tells them: "Strengthen it a little and the next day it will be different." That's the reality. Finally, I have heard the argument that you are making us out of the difficult situation, that the New Democracy would vote for it too. Don't vote. In two or three months, we'll have elections. Let us take the "hot potato" and see if we tell the truth or lie to the Greek people. One last thing I have heard is that the risk is eastwards and that this agreement is being made to deal with the Turks. One thing I have not heard, ladies and gentlemen, and I do not charge it to you, I charge it to the Prime Minister. He did not tell us the true truth that brought this agreement to the Greek Parliament. He did not tell us what the real reason for bringing this agreement to Parliament is. He's hiding him. Because none of what I have said to you, none of your arguments are right and are not valid on such a critical national issue. So you have to tell the truth at least at the last minute. You must tell the truth and inform the Greek people. And then test yourself with your idol in the mirror. However, we do not vote for this agreement, not for our history, not only for our past, but also for the future that we want to ensure in future generations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Nikolaos Michos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not understand what Macedonian political refugees were before. And then the government did well and did not accept them. He did very well. On the other hand, your panic, stress and desire to pass as soon as possible, the Prespecies's Agreement, is seen by many desecrated moves in terms of procedures. As an independent MEP, I would like to denounce what has been done to represent the Independent Members, which was legitimate on the one hand, but immoral on the other hand in the way they were. It is not reasonable for seven Independent Members to be represented by two who were in favour of the agreement and the nine who were against, to be represented by one. Obviously you will be pushing too much and you want to finish with this loose end - as Mr Voutiss said yesterday - as soon as possible. But here, we are not talking about economic and tax matters coming and going, but about national issues and about the risk of granting national territory. The question of whether Macedonia is Greek is rhetoric. We all know. The question is whether this government is doing what it has to do for the interests of our country and Macedonia. It is incomprehensible at the time of peace that there is a risk of giving national territory with the orders of all the Foreign Forces, the West, our friends and the wishes of half - and above - Parliament. As for the Opposition, if the Prespecies' Agreement did not come to a ratification in Parliament, you had the opportunity. First, it should not have accepted ratification of the agreement with just a hundred and fifty Members, but with an eighty-eighty. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 28(2) of the Constitution, ‘To vote for a law that ratifys treaties or agreements with other States or international organisations a majority of three fifths of the total number of MPs is required’. In Skopje the constitutional changes, ladies and gentlemen, were made with two-thirds, eighty-five Members. For their part, it makes sense for the Skopje to keep the procedures, since they are the only winners on the one hand, because on the other hand, it is a slogan of different ethnic groups without identity, without a story they desperately seek to find it. But they are lucky when they have been and with all that has been played so many years against our Macedonia, because this matter could have ended beforehand. And it is not just the current government, it is also the previous governments. This Land should have been dissected when its time had come a few decades ago. We all know what had happened and our borders are with Serbia on my side. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I did not talk about it, it could have been done at the time, we had attached them, and since they want to be called the Northern Macedonians, they were in Greece, not move on to others. The opposition could also have proposed a referendum that is also the wishes of the majority of the Greeks, but it did not. I am in favour of the referendum. There must be referendums, but here we have a matter. We will not forget the 5th of July 2015 that a referendum was held on the agreement of the three institutions and in a few days' time very magically Mr. Tsipras "no" did it "yes". So it would be pointless. From there on, you had a proposal yesterday, because it is national and only the matter, to start you and PASOK and whoever else wanted to resign - what Mr Michaliokos of the Golden Dawn said - to end the process, to leave the government alone and to judge the attitude of all of us in this. You have not done that either. The day before yesterday, SYRIZA's kamamer stated unambiguously about an agreement, he says - and he is also complaining - that has not been done in the Aegean. So, why are we going? About Erdogan's blue country? Let's split up the Aegean again, make deals? Where? In our waters? In our waters? In our homeland? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Or will someone else come from the continent and talk about the continent? Thrace anyway is the next step. So, with Soros' blessings, our country is sold and the buyer is the one. And you will sign. We're all going to be judged by the world for what's going on in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u161	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Because some things have been heard here, I would like to remind all of us, who belong to the constitutional arc, that the supreme expression of patriotism is the observance of the Constitution. And according to the Greek Constitution, there are no uproars left on the Internet to fall governments. The Greek Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, does not allow it. And those who move these lies make them out of the evil one and with too much undermining for our democracy criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, national issues far exceed the short political cycle. And so it should be, because the major national issues are the best possible consensus within the country, so that, abroad, the country can be in the negotiations with the greatest possible power that it can make with the support of many forces. Instead of taking this opportunity, Mr Tsipras wanted, as he himself told us, by the Stepma, to use Macedonian as a catalyst for the promotion of political forces of another political scene and another reorder.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u163	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u164	There's a record in the Minutes, Mr. President. Refer to January 16th. He has used, in other words, a major national issue to serve his narrow, electoral, political interests, and has lost a window of opportunity for a nationally advantageous solution to the Skopje issue, an opportunity window which, of course, was created by the fall of the Gruevski government and the emergence of the most moderate socialist Zaev, which, as Mrs Gennimata said, serves the interests of his own country. Despite our persistent calls for a council of political leaders to be held before that, the necessary procedures for the maximum possible consensus have been worked out, because, as I said, the Prime Minister had other purposes. But let's think about it a little. How would it open up its papers, in order to reach a major consensus within the country, a government that could not reach an agreement within itself when we had a Minister of National Defence, on the one hand, a servant of far-right and ethnicist perceptions, on the other, a Minister of Foreign Affairs? Even within the board itself, heavy accusations were heard. I don't know what justice will do for them, I still haven't seen anything. How, today, is it true that this government, which governs with left-wing extremes and various perimeters, is capable of forging, in order to achieve profitable national consensus? Unfortunately, this has not been achieved and we are here today in the face of an agreement which, while it could be nationally beneficial, ultimately, rather than solving problems, in the immediate future and in the ultimate future will create, I fear, a great deal. Two - three points from my point of view. Firstly, the adoption and existence of the term nationality, nationality, in the international agreement - whether or not the Greek side, invokeed by the private communication, seeks to limit its scope to citizenship, the citizenship - is undoubtedly inflamed by Macedonianism with the very nationalist and altruistic features it has taken in this 19th century. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] For one or two minutes, Madam President, I too ask for your tolerance. Finally, there is the international paradox that citizenship does not follow linguistically the official name of the state. North-Macedonians should be called the natives of northern Macedonia and not Macedonians. This divergence from international regularity is unfortunately confirmed by the unattractive linguistic choices that exist within the financial communication, ladies and gentlemen. And at least this financial communication is unexplainable and open to multiple readings, which potentially serve other purposes, Skopje and not our country. Nationality is inextricably linked to linguistic identity. The conditions are created, which may undermine normality and thus create stability in the Western Balkans and, of course, in relations between the two countries. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that it is even created in terms of erga omnes a heterogeneous shape. On the one hand, Greece recognises Macedonian nationality and language in a way that is accomplished, unpredictable and irrevocable and, on the other hand, the internal use of the complex name for Skopje is transferred to the ultimate and uncertain future. I conclude by saying this: I wonder how the worst post-multiple government could bring a nationally advantageous agreement? So it would not be possible, and that is why we are voting against the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u166	Question One: Macedonian word comes from Macedonia, Home word. According to one new view, the word Macedonian corresponds to the one who ends in an acute end. Who disagrees that Halkidiki resembles Poseidon's three? That is, therefore, an opinion from which, however, it turns out to be an entirely Greek word. Secondly, the Presidencies' Agreement makes with your signature and your vote the native minutes, to indigenous people. In practice, the residents of the state are stateless and seek citizenship, which is given by the vote of SYRIZA and his associates. The Prespecies Agreement is a means of waging Macedonia and conceiving its Greekity. The constitutional bow proved with the rejection of the objection of constitutionality tabled by the Golden Dawn that it is an unconstitutional arc. I am presenting for the Minutes a copy of the objection to constitutionality. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Golden Dawn, exercising preventive control of constitutionality, did its duty. But he won't stay here. It will continue by provoking, Mr Katrugale, a repressive constitutionality check in the draft law of the Prespecies Agreement. And not just that. It will demonstrate in the process that even with the Treaty of Vienna one of the conditions of relative or absolute nullity of the Treaty will arise. The Golden Dawn also commits that to the national government, in which it will advance as a political movement, an article will be included in the Constitution by which a law will be annulled, namely, this law. Mr Katrugalos for me - I am glad to say - is a divided personality politically and with regard to the constitutional approach to issues. Why am I saying that? Mr. Katrugalos was one of the advisors for the drafting of Albania's constitution. According to Article 151, fifty thousand Albanians can cause a referendum. This law, which Mr Katrugalos actually has, will apply when Golden Dawn comes to things. For this reason, Greeks and those who feel Greeks not to be disappointed, to keep the flag of Greek Macedonia up, which is once and for all. The drafting of the constitutional objection also refers to Mr Matthew Nimitz. Mr. Matthew Nimic is part of a separatist international cycle led by the Rochild family. Her puppet is Soros. Soros puppet is Nimitz. And you will become puppets of this system. Or, if that's not the case, you'll follow the fate of the comedians. You'll be the neo-colonies. And I mean political luck, which is well known. I say that Mr Nimic, who, according to the BBC, claims to be rewarded with one dollar per year, was the first president of the Centre for Democracy and Reconciliation in south-eastern Europe, who writes and reports Skopje as 'Macedonia'. Who's a donor, beyond Soros, to this center? The Greek Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Municipality of Thessaloniki. It's no accident. Mr. Nimic, who is a dark personality and has acted as a master of puppets for this Treaty of Ambassadors - a master of puppets of Rotterd and Soros - refers to a United Nations press conference, January 17, 2018. There is therefore a matter of self-exemption from the consultations because he owns a company which has a subsidiary in Greece, SAXO BANK. And, therefore, that is a reason for opt-out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Aivatidis, don't open matters. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u168	The issue, Madam President, is very specific: the presence, even as a witness, of Mr Nimitz's negotiator, may make this agreement invalid. For this reason, I repeat, we call on the Greeks to join the Golden Dawn classes in order to overthrow this partnership of international Zionist circles and the SYRIZA Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Sifakis has the floor, and then Mr. Toskas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes in our lives we stand before our consciences and in the face of history. When, with the vote of the Greek people, a person has been elected a Member of the Greek Parliament, he owes himself to critical decisions, and most of all to decisions on national issues, to have the national interest unique, to be calm, to have studied all the facts and to be rational. Also, to calculate the election commitments of his party and to be consistent with the planning positions of his government, to be guided by patriotism, to be national what is real. And also, to feel debt, to pursue a solution to national issues and not to perpetuate them, of course, when international treaties allow it. It should not be affected in his decision by vocalism, from alleviations, from threats, from blackmails, from enthusiastic acts of fascism and the underworld - events that I have been dealing with in this time of time with many other colleagues - to read and listen only to arguments and truths. It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that the position to seek a name of the neighbouring state with the composite name "Macedonia", geographically defined, was a programming position both of SYRIZA and of the New Democracy and of KINAL, but there is also the programming positions of our Government. So someone's claim that we vote without having been ordered from the people is clearly false. It's not true. Ladies and gentlemen, since I started following the political things of the country, from a student to a later student at the Metsovian Polytechnic University, I remember that, at the time in the unified Yugoslavia, the southern part has been mentioned by all the maps - even the maps in our country's schools - as 'Macedonia', without any wing of political life to react. History says that when the unified Yugoslavia was broken, the then Foreign Minister, Antonis Samaras, recognised the Macedonian Republic of 1991 as the neighbouring country's name, without any designation. Mr Samaras, who today appears as the great Macedonian leader, with the government of Constantine Mitsotakis, and could then press Germany that was burning to be recognized by Croatia, did not give up the name by taking on historical responsibilities. And now he goes to the rally and presents himself as the leader of the New Democracy, trying to change his party's position on the issue of the neighbouring country. The national position for the name of the neighbouring country with a composite name, with a geographical identification of erga omnes called "Macedonia" are even now positions of the New Republic and KINAL. This is the position of the New Democracy as much as at the rally by some of those who participate, but also in the province, mainly in the Macedonian provinces, hide it and avoid diligently mentioning it by mocking the citizens. Yesterday I read an open letter sent to me through the local media by the local organization of the New Democracy of Almopia Pella. In this, in addition to the graphic attacks on my allegedly insensitive to Macedonia, because of my non-originality from the region, regardless of which I am Macedonian over thirty years and no longer remember anything else, my children are Macedonians, my home is in Aridia, my jobs are in Macedonia and even after they have listed the heroes of our region, who have fought or given their souls, their blood and their lives for freedom, by addressing the anger of my compatriots, have not found a word to say about the position of the New Democracy, on the name of the neighboring country that is the last thing to do and the basis of the agreement. Other New Democracy organisations are doing this all over the country. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Mr Presidents of the local organizations of the New Democracy, there in Pella, tell us clearly - do not mock the citizens - what your position is for the name is. The position of the New Democracy is therefore the complex name "Macedonia" and geographical identification for all uses, that is, what the Prespecies Agreement says. Only Mr. Samaras says otherwise. So let the specula for the delivery of the name stop. One handed over the name, Samaras, and even the father of today's president of the Police Department. If you hit the "Macedonia" entry in "Google", you will find Slavic registrations and buildings of Skopje and not the White Tower, as the Prime Minister said very well in his speech yesterday. By voting in favour of the agreement, we will be able to use the term "Macedonia" as "Macedonia" as well as "Macedonia", airport Macedonia, University of Macedonia, etc. And, of course, we are not afraid, Mr Mitsotakis, that we will not be able to say our peaches Macedonian, like for purely populist reasons you said yesterday. And the peaches have been working a lot lately. A mayor told us the day before yesterday that we gave - he says - de minimis peaches to get inside the world the Prespecies Agreement. Now Mr. Mitsotakis says we should call it Pakistani. With the agreement, with the friendship and cooperation of the people, our region and its development will be assisted. The exit to the north of Macedonia will be allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u171	Please hang up, Mr. Sifakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u172	Of course, Mr President. For the reasons mentioned, I consider the agreement to be a national and patriotic task. We're doing the right thing. We're on the right side of history, and time will give us justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much. Time will be justified when we're okay on time. You guys were okay. Mr. Toskas Nikolaos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have three dimensions in the examination of the Prespecies Agreement: legal matters and the interpretation of the terms, geopolitical issues, as they have shaped between 1992 and today, and finally, we have the development issues of the region which are of particular importance in this mountain and barren soil, which the conflicts did not leave much hope for transnational cooperation and common benefits. National issues exist in all three dimensions. If only one dimension is considered, we lose the overall picture. As far as recent history is concerned, countries that were seriously interested in serving their interests did so either during the 1992 crisis or immediately thereafter. Unfortunately, under the responsibility of Mr Samaras, but also of the then government, the critical period has been lost from 1992 to the 1995 interim agreement, which fortunately came and saved us from the caging of the embargo imposed by our country, in an attempt to strangle the so-called state that had to disappear, because the nationalist Milosevic line was also in their own measures and was also an interlocutor of the state which fortunately did not collapse, because otherwise we would have two major countries in the north. Our country at this liquid period imposed two bans - one was the oil embargo by the Mitsotakis Government in 1992, and the other was the trade embargo by the Papandreou Government in 1993 - and managed to be part of the problem instead of the solution. We risked being isolated and, at the same time as isolation, we led the neighbouring country into the arms of Turkey, while nationalism and altruism have increased. According to Mr Samaras, as he said in his speech yesterday, a Cuba can threaten a large country. Right, but not alone, but with Russian missiles, that is, with a Turkish influence like the one you caused by isolation and we are trying to stop. The Skopje crisis forced us to stop the skepticism of foreign policy and it became clear at the time that the name was behind the Greek targets in the Balkans. Several times later, since 2008, we will see a single concept after the Bucharest Summit for a complex name, a line formulated by the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Bakoyannis, with only the LAOS to react. Unfortunately, today this consensus has been reversed, with the New Democracy promoting close party objectives, without a single position and agitating between a complex name and the extreme conception ‘No mention of the name Macedonia’. Now the representatives of LAOS in the New Democracy take their revenge, imposing their own opinion. Liberal right handes over the dog, succumbs, silences or is forced to shine some objections. Now the KINAL, which is in favour of freedom of vote, deletes those who support the agreement. The agreement has the support of the US and the European Union, why does it undoubtedly serve their interests, which are, above all, not to allow Russia to expand to the Balkans? Yes, but should we not take advantage of international conflicts to promote the interests of the country? The whole agreement was made in an environment of stability and with a security consolidation in our country, which gave the right ground to resolve the issue. Our country has been a pillar of security in the region and within, despite the fact that the opposition has been trying to convince us of the opposite for four years. We see these days signing agreements in Europe, we see the dangers and effects of Brexit, we see the agreement between Germany and France in Aachen and I wonder: does this not affect us? Shouldn't we take them into account? If we are isolated in a provincial way, will we not prepare the ground for the next crisis? Why, badly lies, our economic potential and our interests are closer to the Balkans, southern Europe and the south-east Mediterranean. Some people ask, "What has happened to us for twenty-seven years when the matter has not been resolved?" It is clear that Turkey has tried to establish itself in the Balkans following the break-up of Yugoslavia. I will not forget the personal experiences in Sarajevo, but then as commander of a tank unit in Polykastro Kilkis, and then when I saw weapons handed over to the civil war in 2001, which is doubtful whether we had to be involved. Do we want a country that is destabilised and perhaps divided into a large Albania and Bulgaria or a stable country? Do we want the Greek people informed and freely thought about or fearful that some of their hands would have them in party? Do we want a country in our north to be a land of resolution of the differences between the major powers or a country of alliance and friendly, with its own problems? We want a neighbouring country, of course, close to us and not to us. Realism and geopolitical conditions require that we close forwards. Those who want foreheads openly to rally far-right elements, think about the practices that led to 1897 - for those who know what happened back then and with the National Society, the Strip of Golden Dawn - and the many actions that took place then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Toska, finish in twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u176	There are central issues that bring together the contradictions. The agreement will soon be beneficial to our country and the people. All we need to do is lie and artificial fear and our country will now have a central role in development and peace in the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Gregorakos has the floor from DISY.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, just a reminder. When Brasidis went to Amphipolis, he spoke the Greek language and Macedonia was Greek and spoke Greek at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, the great truth is that we have lost a great opportunity in 1991. We were trapped in the barren fantasies, not to say dangerous, so that our well-known Peneero proposition conserves. Every last year and better. However, the problems caused by the Prespecies Agreement are far greater than those it is trying to resolve. The composite name in no way justifies the acceptance of citizenship and language. It actually opens wide open the door to the recognition of Macedonian ethnicity. The objections that have been raised are reasonable and substantiated. They are not based on nationalist empires, and much more they are not dictated by dreadful tide. In fact, the Greek Government has avoided any negotiation with the neighbouring country. She accepted her arguments without a debate. The invocation of the Albanian community, in order not to insist on the 'North-Macedonian language' and the 'North-Macedonian people', does not justify the unconditional retreat of Mr Tsipras. The problem of ethnic identity is not negligible. On the other hand, it is a major issue that can sustain and feed altruistic attitudes and intentions, but also unbridled nationalisms. The key foreign policy issues pose serious risks if they are not addressed with a responsible and acute political crisis, taking into account historical memories. Hence the first moment the Macedonian was relaunching, the Prime Minister should inform the leaders of the political parties. He didn't. He wanted to dismantle the small parties and create a big issue in opposition. He had to ask for positions and proposals, promoting a stable national strategy. If he really cared about reaching a beneficial agreement, he would have to consult with all the party leaders of the democratic arch, at least seeking to achieve a minimum framework of understanding, consensus and wisdom. Unfortunately, however, he did not do so for purely party reasons. His only concern was to cause internal problems to the Greek parties, taking advantage of different approaches and opinions that undoubtedly exist. The Prime Minister, without understanding the sense of responsibility he owes to his actions and actions to show, has proposed the reorientation of the country's political scene. After all, he confessed to it in public, without any suspension the other day in the ‘SGEI’. In fact, he completely ignored the side effects of his choices. It does not bother him or he does not worry about the fact that the Prespecies Agreement puts water on the mill of extremist nationalist circles, evaporating even graphic reactions. The proclamations of the progressive front have no bearing on them. In practice it seeks exactly the opposite. He wants to further strengthen a extreme right-wing current, considering that he can oppose himself. His main pursuit is in the place of the anti-immemorial Tsipras that we have seen in all previous years, to show the so-called progressive and anti-nationalist. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems now clear that Mr Alexis Tsipras once again is investing in fraud. He confessed, as he confessed, the antimony crowns and the flimsies. This is his so-called turn to the central left-wing family, of course with a tool this time Macedonian. However, the burning problem is that the uneducated choices are harmful to the country's national interests. The long-advertised Prespecies Agreement proves it. That's why he shouldn't pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u179	Mr Gregorakos as an expert, as he has also done in the Bureau and is an experienced politician, said it all in three minutes and forty-three seconds. I say this, so that we know, when we want to do procedures that are two hundred speaking - and that is how they should - how they could be done. I am sorry, but the European Parliament has two minutes. Mr. Christopher Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u180	Thank you. Everything has been said in this Chamber this weekend and in the previous debate on government approval. Perhaps, if something is illuminated, this is the international environment. So I'm going to continue from where Nikos Toskas finished. There is a question from the standpoint of counterpopulation that says “Why now? Why don't we postpone this? Why don't we transfer it?’ Why don't we hide it, like for thirty years, under the rug, in the time of history? What is urgent today for us and we want to solve an open wound in the Balkan country that agitates regions, minorities, ethnic groups and creates poles of competition? There are two answers to this question. Whether there is complete ignorance of major competitions or there is a great hypocrisy, a opportunism of the electoral type. Look, friends and friends, those who do not understand the new era that succeeded the diplomatism of the United States and the Soviet Union, do not understand the dangers and contradictions that this multipolar world is hiding and cannot organise any defence. In this world today, where there are many competitors and many regional conflicts, war is a way out. It is a way out and imposed and coercive and supremacy, a visible danger to our region as well. In these geopolitical competitions, which are not only about political influence, but are about energy roads, they are about whole systems of security and aggression, you must add other wounds that are open at this time and indeed sharply: the trade war. They all thought it was a story of the United States and China. No, no, no, no, It tends to include the entire Western world, Europe and Canada, and first accept blackmail. Even the first to lift the flag of the conspiracy are the industrial classes that do Trump's carpets. If you add to this climate change, refugee and migration flows, the refugee issue becomes the tool to impose geopolitical planning and at the same time the tool to exercise geopolitical control. In our own neighbourhood, in the Balkans, in addition to the United States and the European Union, Russia and Turkey are being activated and those of interest. This conflict gap is trying to close our response and, obviously, our response is not the patriotism of the ninety-nine and Samaras nationalism, nor can it be the Macedonian salata of the nationalisms of the New Democracy and VMRO. On the contrary, it is a policy of solidarity, co-development and cultural odour. If that is one reason why the New Democracy is underestimated, my conviction is that it also plays with a second chance, it plays with the rise of the far right in Europe. Everything shows that in the next European elections the extreme right-wing bloc will achieve a great victory, it can still reach, as international analysts say, the second big political family. What this means to the European Union's policy, what it means to the refugee, what it means to the economy, what it means to peace, we can all imagine it. The New Democracy cares for the far right, believes it will gain political excellence by approaching extreme right-wing positions, i.e. matching this far-right bloc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Papadopoulos, please close now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u182	Our aim is to create a political current that is against the nationalism of the extreme right and against the neoliberalism of the European People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u183	I invite Mrs Christodoulopoulos from SYRIZA to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday a civil war has begun within the House, that is, the climate that exists in a number of cities in northern Greece, with the well-known protagonists, has also been transferred to the Chamber. We have heard Mr Vorides speak and describe the government of SYRIZA, we have heard the well-known Chrysayites say that we should have already taken over this country and cross the border with Serbia, we have heard what misery can be imagined and we have to see who is finally organising this climate. Mr. Mitsotakis came here yesterday and indicated to me and other comrades, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Gavroglou and others, who signed a text in 2008, after of course the "casseta" had been preceded by Mr. Koumotsakos and many others, both in Parliament and in the media. They were moving the announcement like it was a treasure. They found the big argument to crush us. Mr Mitsotakis even came here and insulted me not only because I had signed this text but also because I said that I was proud. Imagine the incredible confusion that the people of New Democracy live in. Finally, with what happened yesterday and today, I believe that all this climate that has developed in Greece, these people, anonymous to date, who are sticking our posters to northern Greece and targeting our MPs, those who are making the attacks, those who go and beat at SYRIZA's homes all of them are coordinated by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u185	What are you talking about? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u186	Rescind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u187	Let go, sir. Let go. I'll say it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u188	You're welcome. It's a political appreciation. Mr. Brutsi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u189	You coordinate them. You coordinate them. You. Your chief went out and pointed me out. He gave me to the angry crowd.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u190	Quiet. It's a political appreciation. Please. Don't shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u191	Your chief gave me to the bullies, fascist para-staters, to the Golden Dawn cannibals. That's what you're doing. Aim, as you targeted in the Civil War. You're the modern... I'll say it all now. We've had enough of you. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please. You won't tell me what to say. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u192	Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u193	This text, which I signed, was released in 2008...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u194	Mrs. Christodoulou, can you stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u195	Get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u196	Of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u197	The word "......" will be deleted and I would ask you not to continue with such designations from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u198	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u199	Another answer you have given to the Government of Reconciliation. It was tough what it sounded like. You are an excellent politician, so you understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u200	My time doesn't count.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u201	I'll hold him for that long. That's exactly him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u202	This declaration with signatures was released in 2008. It was precisely at the time when Mr Karamanlis and Mrs Bakoyannis held the negotiations in Bucharest and we thought, of course, naive that we could make a text public to encourage the government on the left to resolve the problem. This text therefore identifies the risk of nationalism which can be developed in both countries and Greece and FYROM. Unfortunately, we've been confirmed. Why, gentlemen, are you doing this? I, you know, because I'm legal, I'm always looking for relief. Are you in such a panic? Were you sure you're going loaded to take the government and something broken? Say what's broken? The government took a vote of confidence. The anti - SYRIZA forehead that you have been manipulating for four years. It broke. It's washed. What are you going to do without the anti-SYRIZA front? So this panic you live in, and prevented you from being reproached, proves how much you have been defeated. You have, however, offered, in addition to all these defeats, and a delightful work towards the extreme right. You legalized Golden Dawn on your democratic bow, washed it out of a Nazi party, made it a national force, and you'll answer for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u203	Where's the Golden Dawn court?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u205	Because you opened the genie of nationalism. And the genie of nationalism will be installed here to threaten society, democracy and its conquests.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u207	No, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u208	No, Madam President. Please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u209	You've eaten my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u210	No, I didn't eat you anything. You'll close now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u211	Okay, I'll go. So I close and say: Yes, gentlemen, we are proud of both our ideas and our perceptions and of the fact that we are actors of the ideas written in the most glorious pages of history, enlightenment, the great revolution of the 20th century, the European uprisings, humanism, above all, all those that are completely foreign to you, you are completely hostile and, at every opportunity, they come out of this hideous face. So you'll get the answer. Why, the election dilemma, do you know what it will be? If neoliberalism is to be merged with the Right, or democracy will prevail in that country. In this dilemma the Greek society, with the excesses it has made in recent years, will give the right answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u212	Okay, you're closed, Mrs. Christodoulopoulos. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr Pavlides Konstantinos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u214	Please, we have heard some very serious things both before and after the two-day meeting. No, please too. Why are you doing this now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u215	Heavier than what he said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u216	No, it's a lot heavier for you. They have gone through 'preventions', 'abatements' and anything else you want from here, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u217	It's no accident! It's not simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u218	Mrs. Christodoulopoulos took it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u219	He didn't get anything back. You corrected it in the second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u220	For the rest, he gave an explanation of theory and politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u222	Come on, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for half a minute. But then I will necessarily give Mrs Christodoulopoulos the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u223	Two major things have been said: the first is that the New Democracy is the organizer behind the violent incidents. The second is that it is the New Democracy which legitimised the Golden Dawn. If both have been withdrawn and have been deleted from the Minutes, I, for the sake of normality of the climate, will not continue. But, I ask: have these two statements been withdrawn from the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u224	It is clear that these two have not been revoked and have not been deleted, Mr Treasury. That's what Mrs. Christodoulou wanted to say. And I'm not making a judgement about the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u225	Good. Mr President, before entering the Chamber I had the luck of meeting Mrs Katerini for the first time, Mr Katerini, his colleague, SYRIZA, who spoke yesterday. I have had the opportunity to tell her - in our first acquaintance - that this evening I will be in Katerini, for a party event, and that I will take advantage of this case, in order to condemn the incidents against her in the most unequivocal way. I therefore reject any statement, anyone here, that New Democracy is behind any violent incident against anyone. The New Democracy has been the victim of an incident. He has given blood to protection against terrorism. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that anyone who attended as a witness to the defence of terrorism must come here and shake our hand. We gave blood!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u227	With regard to the Golden Dawn, Mr President, we have also fought. And I hope that the next battles will be fought together in this Chamber against this extreme case, which has brought us through the crisis against racism, against fascism. And whoever breaks down this single front is indiscriminate and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u228	And because I will not give the floor to Mrs Christodoulou, if she would ask me, I would like to clarify - and you are a law-abiding lawyer - that the duty of the lawyer...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u229	He called me a witness...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u230	Please, Mrs Christodoulopoulos! The duty of the lawyer, as well as the right to witness, is the sacred things and on the basis of our legal system and cannot be a fresco for any of us and any case, Mr Dendia. You made your criticism. Please do not ‘no legalised’. Thank you. Mr. Pavlides has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. As time is short, I wish that the Civic Opposition had the same sensitivity when there were many speeches of their colleagues who blamed us for national dealers and traitors. However, there was no such speech or statement from anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start immediately, because time is too short. What did Mr Samaras and Mr Mitsotakis say yesterday in their speeches? What were their statements? To leave the solution to another political time, without knowing whether there will be any conditions for this, that is to say, whether we can find a solution or whether we will perpetuate the deadlock in the future with all the consequences that this means in the activism, in the symbols, in the nationalism of the neighbouring country. Secondly, 'the express procedure'. Five days we have been discussing committees and Parliament's plenary on this agreement. Other lies: He remembered the Macedonian peach. One must obviously explain to Mr Mitsotakis, who does not know it, that the characters of PDO, according to the law, the protected designations of origin, cannot be mentioned in the name of a state, but in the name of an area. Only one country has an area called Macedonia and this is Greece. As is also the term "Macedonian" and "Macedonian" without prefix or designation, it belongs only to Greece and no other country. We can say our airport "Macedonia", while they must say their airport "North Macedonia" and must set a precedent either for state or for clubs and companies that receive state funding or are made and established by law. Secondly, it is forbidden, said Mr Samaras, people's mobilisations on the Macedonian national issue, on the basis of Article 3(4) of the Agreement. May I remind him what the 1995 Interim Agreement in Article 7 said? "Each party will shortly take effective measures to prohibit hostile actions or propaganda from state-controlled services and to discourage actions by private entities that would have the potential to undermine violence, hatred or hostility mutually.". Approximately the same article in the Interim Agreement in 1995. Then he didn't remember. Now he mentions it as a problem. Third, ‘Greek language’. They've heard a lot about it. One thing I'll just say and I'll put it in the Minutes later, so I don't get tired and throw away the papers from here, as the Chief of Staff has done, not even respecting the workers, who are underneath. The UN Conference of Athens in 1977 clearly mentions the title on "Alphabic characters of Macedonian language". School books said the Prime Minister and announced Mr Samaras' correspondence with Mr Gruevski on a joint scientific committee on the evasion of insulating and falsifying history, a measure that also exists in this agreement. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, who is really concerned about this? Who is concerned by an interdisciplinary committee that will review the books and get out of every element of saturation and intolerance? We or our neighbors? We or they, who have a training structure built on the logic of the historical continuity of Alexander the Great and ancient Macedonia, on alperating bases? Apparently, they. The dominant slogan: "Macedonia is one and Greek." Let's see what we officially said in our educational system with certain elements. Macedonia is not a historical term that we could talk about as a geopolitical term. Let me give you some details: 1913 to 1924, Ioannis Sarris "Geography for use of the Third Order", approved by the Society of School Books: "Greek Macedonia, Serbian and Bulgarian Macedonia or northern Macedonia" with km, residents. ‘During the Treaty of Bucharest of 1918, north-western Macedonia was granted to Serbia, and north-eastern Macedonia was granted to Bulgaria.’. In 1931 "Encyclopedic Lexicon Eleftherodakis": "In Skopje of Serbian Macedonia there is a chromium mine" and much more. In 1938 Panagiotis Iliopoulou, Organization of School Books, "Geography of Europe, for the second class, Octax school, five-axle school training and urban schools": "Serbian Macedonia" and "Greek Macedonia". Eight times on the page the words 'Serbian Macedonia'. In 1939 Lt-Col Soulis, "The Balkans" and a study "issued by the General Staff": "So Yugoslavia includes today", "...Netherlands Macedonia" "... and the annexation of Serbian Macedonia." In 1953, respectively, Evstathian Geography. In 1963, by Constantine Karamanlis. Military School of Hope, Department of Studies, Geography of Maj-Gen Soulis Michael: "To Greek Macedonia dwell entirely outright Greeks, in G/B (Yugoslavoslaj) Slavomachens and in Bulgarian, Bulgarians." "either to the Aegean Sea and to the Greek western Macedonia." Despite the tears of the National Lord Constantine Karamanlis, which we paid very expensive diplomatically, at the military schools in the same year as the Prime Minister, we mentioned this: Greek, Bulgarian and Yugoslav Macedonia. Dedicated to Golden Dawn: 1973, Aristotle Kostopoulos, Organiser of Teaching Books: "Macedonia, today's Greek Macedonia, extends from the blue beaches of the Aegean to the tops of Olympia". "What is our country? Do not be bells?’ I'm dedicating it very much there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u232	Please, finish, Mr. Pavlides. Report to the Minutes, if you want anything, to call the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u233	I shall conclude, Mr President, on the dilemma. That is the way we reach, ladies and gentlemen, to say Helios, the Member of the Golden Dawn: "Our borders come to Serbia." Why? In one hour's speech, Mr Samaras and Mr Mitsotakis did not dare once say the words 'friendship', 'cooperation', 'peace', in a parliamentary procedure concerning the relationship between two adjacent sites with many wounds of the past. But be sure that history will judge you in the ultimate future, but society will condemn you much sooner.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u234	Thank you. Mr Yakoumatos Gerasmos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u235	The gar of sorrow gives birth to insanity, Ms. Tashia! That is what you have said. Mr President, I thank the God who gave me the opportunity today to be in the National Representation and to write in the Minutes a bronze, great 'no' to this shameful Ambassadors' agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u236	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u237	And I'm saying that why? Because I want my children and my grandchildren, in future generations, to have recorded in the history of the future that this opposition is going with my conscience and not with the signature. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you do not know something very simple. What's won with blood isn't lost with signature and ink. And we Macedonia didn't give it to us. We fought! Blood rivers! Thousands were sacrificed to be Macedonia today. So that's not lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u238	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u239	Did you forget Paul Melas, who, on October 13, 1904, gave the blood of the first? And he was the only one? Thousands of Greeks, Cretans, Lacones, Kefalonites went and gave the battle for Macedonia to be free today. Mr President, what can I tell you? And most of you hide it. I was born, raised, and manned with one phrase only, that Macedonia is Greek. That's what I grew up to. So today I cannot write it down. And I can't explain it's Greek. And you're asking me to? What do you want from me? You're asking me to write out all these years of our story? Are you asking millions of Greeks to erase Macedonia? This can't be! We can never deny it because the truth is one. I'm not her name. Gligorov, the first president of Skopje, what did he say? "We are Slavs" - they are Slavs! -, "We have nothing to do with Alexander, we have come to the Balkans in the 6th - 7th century. It is not what gives the identity of the people." That's what Kiro Gligorov said. I won't tell you what Constantine Karamanlis, the Gentile, and I won't tell you everything else, because everything is exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u240	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u241	But I want to tell you something. The country had to negotiate more seriously, strongly, to be united together, to bring a serious, responsible agreement to the House and not to make these pictures and lips for our historic heritage. Mr President, I do not want to delay any longer. I would like to say, however, that no matter what you do, no matter what you vote, in the conscience of millions of Greeks there is what we say, that Macedonia is one and it is Greek and Skopje are Skopje! Skopje! We will never accept, never learn that word, saying that state 'Macedonia'! Never of the drinks!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much. My colleague, Mr Stelios, from the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the Government, your agreement - and you know it, but you hide it - serves the plans of NATO, the United States and the European Union in our region. It is a letter and even a recommendation for Macedonia to join NATO and the European Union. This is your goal and the real substance of the agreement. The zombie of the agreement is described in Article 2, which concerns the country's immediate accession to NATO and the accession negotiations in the European Union. That is the essence and you all hide it, because none of you disputes the plans of the US, NATO, the European Union, whose fruit has been the Prespecies Agreement. In evidence of this and because many Members of Parliament and government are here saying that the agreement is quickly and progressively, let us see who supported and supported this agreement, and indeed with good intervention. Aren't the United States and its president, this hell-bently good Trump, according to the Prime Minister, who builds walls and shoots immigrants? Progressive, Trump! Rejoice him! Isn't it the NATO's murderous organization that smashed the nationalisms in the Balkans, broke down and he bleeded Yugoslavia, imposed border changes? Baptism in NATO: Progressive, the most murderous organization that has passed through the history of the last centuries! Has this murderous organization not organised a whole campaign to accept the Prespecies Agreement and indeed its Secretary-General, Stoltenberg, was it the first to congratulate Zaev on the results in the Macedonian Parliament? Progressively, Stoltenberg and NATO! Hello! Is the European Union and many leaders, with Merkel, who have come to Greece recently to give credit not only for his performance in the full implementation of the memoranda but also for the signing of this agreement? All of these guys have become progressive. Even so, in conclusion, you have received a message from Austria's extreme right-wing Chancellor, Kurts. Right-wing Kurts sends a message for a progressive deal! That's it! The disorientation that is being attempted in the Chamber, by focusing on the naming, aims to cover the raw and uncovered reality, that this agreement wanted, supported and imposed it in every way and through the foaming of the most murderous, aggressive, warlike countries and organizations, which have for many years sprung nationalism and death in the Balkans and the wider region. They supported this agreement with an obvious aim to integrate the neighbouring country into NATO and the European Union and to move Euro-Atlantic integration forward in the Western Balkans. That is why the substance, the alpha and the omega of the agreement is Article 2, which is not only limited to the fact that one party will not be prevented from blocking the other party into international organisations, but is taking another step further and clearly in the agreement all the next steps and the accession process of the neighbouring country directly, first in NATO and then in the European Union. And precisely because this agreement is American-speaking cutting and inspiration and has its own seal, for that very reason and in the text of the agreement the seeds of the 'Macedonian people', 'citizen', 'language', etc. remain the seeds of the 'Macedonian people', 'citizen', 'language', etc. These can be exploited in the future, devouring nationalism and altatism to each other, by inflating border changes and imperialist interventions. After all, it is at least nonsense to believe that an agreement that bears broadly - widely the NATO seal - can really eliminate corrosion and nationalism, that is to say, conditions that motivate and give rise to conflicts and conflicts. This truth is confirmed by the recent bitter experience of the peoples of the Balkans, with NATO, the United States and the European Union in strengthening nationalism in the region, so that Yugoslavia will eventually be dispersed in the 1990s, to build the Kosovo state - protectorate. The truth, then, and the bitter truth - and you understand - is that, where the people put their hands on NATO, they cannot reassure. This result of NATO is fragmented states, war and refugee. So there is no guarantee of the people that they can live peacefully and bruisedly. We, the JRC, are with the people, we are with the ability of the people, with their friendship, their solidarity, their common struggle to collide with the war plans of these organizations, to be freed from them and to become their own masters in their own countries, with their own power. History has shown that, when peoples themselves have power, they can really solve such differences, live harmoniously and peacefully. This content had the KKE's mass rallys yesterday and our banners in the Acropolis. We are voting against the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Steerios. Mrs Triantafyllou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. None of the majority is coming and should come to this debate with ease and certainty. On the contrary, there must be awareness of the complexity of the subject, its historical depth, its social and political depth. Furthermore, in my view, the time has come for all Greek society, country and political staff to withstand truths and doses of self-consciousness. The role of history is important in linking the present to the past and in drawing conclusions. However, there can be no discussion with a gradual shift of issues and with a micro-policy. And here we have both. And, furthermore, without knowledge. Because these days many have spoken very much, ignoring historical material or falsifying it. The debate has had paradoxical positions, unscrupulous positions and even dangerous positions, of course with lights - the well-known lights, let me say - exceptions from the Opposition. Name: We got the composite name. The last argument “SYRIZA wanted the name “Macedonia” neatly. Yes, sir. SYRIZA wanted the name "Macedonia", Samaras netos skatos signed the name "Macedonia", as Nikos Kotzias quite rightly said yesterday in 1997. I will not invoke, I have done so before in Parliament, the view, the designations of Constantine Mitsotakis of the former Foreign Minister and former President of the New Democracy. In other words, 'national moderation', insults, words addressed to the extreme right-wing audience. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, in battle on the marble horses of the extreme right, the Prime Minister wished you luck. I'm not that generous to wish you luck. On the contrary, I am sad at the disobedience of many of you. You think you'll win the elections and then the bill will come. That's not gonna happen. The bill will then come for your Chief. Otherwise, if that happens despite hope, say good-bye to the New Democracy you lose. A lot has been said. 'We give ethnicity'. You know very well that sanctions are not being given ethnicity and people. You also forget something: Macedonia is a sovereign, independent state, which comes into a sanction not in terms of colonialism. And be careful, I ask you: So many years as the "Democracy of Macedonia" what language did they speak and what was they called? You ask it when you see "Macedonian/Citizen of Northern Macedonia". I ask, then, all these years 'Macedonia' or 'former Republic of Macedonia', what language did they speak and what were these people? Look, there's a position from Mr. Loverdos that there was provision even in the military postponements, there was indeed a regime for students who were in the former socialist countries. What degree did these people come back with? I know that in the international organisations we are, many MPs, from all the parliamentary groups, and from New Democracy, we see especially Cypriots, Greeks I have not met so far to tell the truth, and we see their degrees and they are great people who are from the "Democratic Republic of Macedonia". To avoid speaking - and I see Mr Karaoglu here who is together in the IPU - about what is happening when we see that everywhere and always have to take steps, because there is a 'Macedonia' everywhere. I could really say a lot of examples of the paradoxical arguments too. I will, however, stop by an argument which has been heard and which is dangerous. We need to see what we want for Skopje, because it has been heard: 'Anyway, what are Skopje? What do we care? Why not now? That's all right.' A little - very much heard even the 'let them attach'. Skopje can reach, you said, the Aegean. Albania, Bulgaria, which has Turkey behind, can't they? I can't understand it. Are we in favour or against the division of this country? Do we want a serious state of Skopje or not? In any case, I think that today is really a great day. It's a tough decision. We're all going to make. I would like to say this: in this parliamentary procedure, which is now ending, it will not be Tsipras. The winner will be the cooperation, peace and the ability of governments to change their fate and do not follow the reactionary current. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u246	Thank you. Mr. Dimitrios Rizzos is called by SYRIZA. The next and last speaker will be Mr. Nicos Paradropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u247	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u248	There is no "Mr. President" and the next seven are SYRIZA's, to understand where the cut begins. Please. The process will continue as we have decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u249	I'm the only one, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Balaura, I don't want any suggestions. Can you understand that? I tell you straight away, I don't want any suggestions and I won't take any suggestions. You're welcome, Mr. Rizzo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u251	Why not all colleagues speak? What's more important than everyone talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u252	Please. It's not whether it's the most important or not. The public opinion and the plenary decision are from yesterday at 14:30 to make a decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u253	But you said everyone would talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u254	Please do not continue, because there is a unanimous decision from the Bureau. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u255	It's about sixty more colleagues speaking!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u256	Look, you are an experienced and valid man. At that time, there is nothing to add to these vocals. Please don't go on. I'll give you the evidence of how many people have spoken. Two-thirds of them talked. Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u257	All three hundred to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u258	To speak four hundred, to make Senate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u259	You won't be able to apologise. Please, please, SYRIZA's colleagues are two-thirds...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u260	You said everyone would talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u261	Why do you keep doing this? Are you representing New Democracy right now? Please very much. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u262	Because I want to talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u263	And if you want, what's my fault for this thing? Please very much. When I give the meeting details, you'll understand a few things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u264	Everybody talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u265	Three minutes of this type of publicity, you earn it worthwhile. You've earned it worthwhile.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u266	Let all the Macedonians talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u267	First of all, we're Greek. I am a Greek Peloponnese and you are a Greek Macedonian. Don't give up on that. There's Mr. Rizzos, too, Macedon. Come on, we're closing the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. I want to begin with a statement that right now, these days, I stand with my soul as a whole on the side of colleagues who have been subjected to threatening messages to murderous attacks. We're not afraid. We've been on the left since we were young, and we've had experience of such things. I did not, however, expect in 2019, here, in this House, instead of saying and dealing with all political groups, except as political opponents, to treat them as enemies of reduced patriotism or as a reduced possibility for people. I cannot accept this, ladies and gentlemen, because there are facts at this time that remind us of other times, times of civil war, the ages of 'Red Apples'. And don't forget that whenever we agreed to play on this stadium, we lost as a homeland, as Greece and as patriots. I could mention thousands of things. Nowadays, technical and political issues and diplomatic issues have been heard. We, too, have learned what is finally going on behind these closed doors of international treaties, who gave the name in 1991, because, under what circumstances, what happened with those Peneero procedures, what happened with the Treaty of Ohrid, what the Foreign Ministers discussed in the UN. That's what we found out in here. We've heard many of us, I think, for the first time. We must not all make the most of them, colleagues. We are not familiar with everything, we must listen. We must listen, but we must also have understanding. I would just like to say that there are international conditions on which Greece is based, such as the Treaty of Bucharest, as is the Treaty of Lausanne. We cannot say unscrupulous and strange things, such as shameful agreements, such as making demilitarised zones at the border with Skopje or stuff like that. If possible, colleagues! I live sixty-one years with two armies across Evros, so should we be afraid of the brigade, the strengthening of FYROM already? Let this not be heard in the Greek Parliament, in the committees of the Parliament. I think it's an hour of responsibility for all of us. We need to see tomorrow, we need to move forward. No one takes anything from us and we don't give anyone anything. We only give our hearts, because the Greeks have always been friendly with a great heart. Let us not become petty and fearful. We must give our children and grandchildren something, and that is confidence, faith in our homeland and not fear, and especially not fear in our fellow citizen, because, if we start and put things like this between us, we will not have a good end, ladies and gentlemen. Let's take care of each other together, see what we'll do tomorrow. Today we know what we are doing and tomorrow we give the hand of friendship, cooperation, solidarity, economic prosperity throughout our region, because we all know through our hearts and our minds what the dominant danger is in our region. Others say it by his name, others describe it, but at least not to forget it. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u269	Thank you. Mr. Nikos Paradropoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u270	All the debate on the Treaty of Ambassadors has taken place under the cover of an ideology which embraces the wars of the Treaty of Ambassadors, 'our name is our soul'. I want to support exactly the opposite. I mean, I'm Thessalonikios, we're Macedonians for historians, socialists, reasons of soul. As if anyone ever calls us much more than someone else's name, we are Macedonians and we are not afraid of renames. Hellenism in its history did not fear the change of names. We had several names in antiquity. Grammers, Romans. We're talking about rosy and we're expressing ourselves, as we speak about Hellenism. In the same way, do we express ourselves by speaking of rosy, has our identity changed? You know what I remember? I remembered Melina Mercouri. Fortunately her interview has been saved, which reminded her that one night she was awakened by the dictatorship of "DAILY MIRROR" and said to her: "You know, Pattacos deprived you of citizenship. You are not Greek.’ What did Melina answer? Most of you will remember. He replied: "I was born Greek, I will die. Those fascists were born, fascists will die." [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This is the supremacy of the soul against the name. The dictatorship, when she wanted to prosecute the king, called herself "democracy". Well, well? Has the name of democracy been corrupted, has democracy ceased to be a democracy and have the value it had? Will Macedonia or Greece lose its value, to which Macedonia belongs, because anyone outside our borders will say what they want their own country? Maybe we don't want to call her that. That's good, but we won't get in the way because they're gonna call it that. The immigrant, who comes to our country, kisses the soil of his country, doesn't kiss the name of the soil. The thing comes before the name always. The soul takes precedence over the name. Alexis Tsipras said so yesterday. Our essence is our story, it's not our name. I must say that we need to clarify something more than that. I'll say it very quickly, because I want to respect the time. Because respect for time is a part of democracy. The second idea, on which all this debate has been based, is that a people's identity is given by origin, blood. I'm not saying it doesn't matter the origin. It does. However, it is also important that the space, the democracy, also has the society in which we live. Democracy among its elements, freedom of speech, free speech, self-determination. If we do not recognise self-determination - and even self-determination is a universal right to democracy - firstly, we do not recognise democracy itself. Because the vote is worthwhile when the other has self-determination, knowledge and will. And if we don't recognize democracy, what Greeks are we? All Earth respects us, because this place is the cradle of democracy. If we do not know what democracy is, are we worthy of the name 'Greek'? This population, this people, has at its core the concept of democracy. Does the fascist have the concept of democracy at its core? I think many things have been said here, details of details and specific issues. I won't disapprove them in general. It is useful that some things have been clarified. I believe that some of the special issues raised for the language, for the name, may be useful, because once we may have a worse government than Zafe's on the other hand. What I mean to say is that these are details. The boulder is that they change their constitution, that we have whatever name we want and that we maintain the possibility of being free and proud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the agreement five days in the Greek Parliament. It was two days in the committee procedure. Plenary lasted thirty-eight and a half hours. It is 40% more than all the conditions, even those of Greece's accession to international agreements, etc., as we could have done more and more. However, it lasted thirty-eight-and-a-half hours and a total of two hundred colleagues, of whom seven Heads of Parliamentary Groups, three former Heads of Parliamentary Groups, former Prime Ministers, rapporteurs, special speakers and a hundred and fifty-six speakers from the list. On the list, I want to say something to you, because it is indeed a historic meeting, as everyone has identified, and there was a need for all colleagues to place themselves in addition. With Parliament's approval, I will read the list of Members who do not speak and those who wish to do so can table their speeches on the Minutes, where they will be issued as an annex. Mr. Tragakis, we did it when I was Minister of the Interior. They will be issued as an annex to the Minutes, because they are not exactly in the Minutes, they have not been delivered. As an annex to the Minutes, however, they will be tabled and issued for this historic session. They are, then, the people. Balaouras, Dritsa, Dousina, Balomeni, Katsis, Stavroulis, Koutsoukos, Germenis, Tsirkas, Javarras, Morfidis, Balafas, Giolas, Gasques, Kremas, Kremastis, Lazarides, Antoniadis, Moraiti, Papalis, Mitafidis, Vayonaki, Karagiannis, Tsongas, Michalidis, Papaphilippipos, Koutsoubas, Kontogeorgios, Sevastakis, Vroutis, Thrazaniotis, Mantas, Bariotas, Bourgas, Karaguanis, Ayghidis, Amanatidis, Kafatidis, Kristis, Bardakis, Kammenis, Jamadakis, Jamadakis and Paulakis. He's last but not final, and Mr. Paulakis will not speak, Mr. Georgiadis! So these forty-eight, if I am not mistaken, colleagues and colleagues, can be tabled as long as they last and end their speech in the Minutes and be in the Minutes of this important sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u272	Tomorrow, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u273	No, Mr. Gaki, there's no tomorrow. The vote will be over in an hour. Those who have ready talks and want to submit them, I would ask them to testify. Does the House approve the above proposal from the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u274	The House approved the Bureau's proposal. I would ask the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Katrugalo, to take the floor for ten minutes to close the meeting and then proceed to the roll-call vote. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all sides of the Chamber have agreed that Parliament is meeting with history, discussing this very important agreement. Since this meeting, after its successful vote and ratification, our country can expect much. But there are two dangers, one of which is in the past and one of which is in the future. The danger for the future is the division that those on your part did not think of adopting arson phrases, reaching out to talk about national meditation. The other danger concerns - as the Prime Minister has said - the work of history. And at this point I will exhaust my speech, since first in a short space of time I have to refer to the inaccuracies which have been heard and which have been corrected. I will begin, in order to get your attention, from the very least and for many details, but precisely because it has contact with the body of history and the perception we have of it. You protested because we anticipated a committee on history books, as if you did not know that both parties, which had governmental responsibility, provided corresponding committees on history books with Albania and Turkey. And here, not only is there a hypocrisy, but also ignorance for the reason this process needs. It is not to correct books, but to see the perception of each people of each other and to be able to put their peaceful coexistence on a new basis. Do you know what the Albanians only asked us to do? Let us stop using the term 'Turcal Albanians' in the books and use the term 'Muslim Albanians'. Is that against national interest? Is it in favour of national interest to highlight Turkish influence? I've seen the Minutes. When I told you, gentlemen, that the composite name "Macedonia" is a national position, I heard the terms "fake" and "fake". Is that possible? This was done not only by the interim agreement, which explicitly incorporated the name "Macedonia" and not only in the programming statements already heard, but since 1993, within the framework of the first reaction of the Mitsotakis Government. It is a published document - but I will nevertheless put it in the Minutes - of our ambassador to the UN, which refers to the urgent need for a rapid solution. That's what I'm saying about you guys. You said why we rushed. In 1993, the Greek state noted the urgent need for rapid resolution and proposed, as a name, in the context of - says the text - a genuine compromise in Slavmacedonia. No reference to ethnicity, no reference to language, just to name. All these documents, I'll testify to them. But you said yesterday and something that's half true, so worse than a lie. You said that you in the negotiations, when the issue was retrospectively raised - although the UN negotiator has always said that the issues of ethnicity, identity and language are out of order for the very reason that we have mentioned, because international conventions cannot deal with these issues - react and reject the claim of ethnicity and language. That's half the truth. Where's the other half? That this negotiation was done on your behalf under a double name, on the inside and on the outside, and I call on you to deny it if what I am saying now is not true. So, what would happen? It would have a name for its international relations, so the first abandonment of the erga omnes would have changed the name of the international name, but in their constitution, since this matter would not even exist on our part, there would still be references to the Macedonian people, to the Macedonian language. So what you were negotiating and coming to tell us that you were proud is much worse than what we have achieved, because we have erga omnes, that is, a true single name for both the interior and for the outside, and even in your solution, which you did not even bring, the name "Macedonian people" and "Macedonian language" would remain in the constitution of the neighbouring country. No, well, not half the truth. Let us now go to the essentials. Is Macedonia a Greek and a Greek? In 1880 Trikoupis said: "Macedonia can be divided into three sections, which is and will be Greek, whatever happens, the central, the Greek population and the Arctic, that is, the northern, the non-inhabited Greeks". And in a later interview he said the famous phrase: "When the great war comes, Macedonia will become either Greek or Bulgarian during the victorious." What did the deep state do? How did he work on history, especially during the Cold War period? It showed a historical allegiance and ostrichism, a constructed idol of history, depending on the political context, precisely because at that time the deep state perceived the danger to the country as a basic danger, it proceeded to a version of its own history, to which it belonged and which we listened to and repressed on your side. The greatest crime against history and against national interests was the extortion of the Pomacians in this policy. In order not to relate to the Bulgarian characteristics of their language, you sent them to Turkish schools to learn another language from their own and to acquire another conscience. The same essentially, to respond to the same danger, explains why Evangelos Averov was so receptive in 1959 to accept Macedonian language. And you're talking about the name. I agree with you, too. Name's important. But history is our soul, but the name is part of our history. Aristotle did say in the third book of Retorics: “It is the Greek that rightly says.” But what have you done for the names and the language in particular? I mean, the deep state, 'cause it might be unfair to just give it to your resignation. It is indeed a language census in 1928. With what name for the tongue? Macedon-Slavic. In 1951, re-engineered language census, in the context of the constructed idol, of the constructed state history, you deleted the name "macedon" and the language was recorded as Slavic. In both cases, apparently, there was Bulgarian language recorded. The term 'Slavic' is understood to be a linguistic paradox. There is no language all Slavs speak. It's like Greek was declared as an indo-European and shows exactly the game of hypocrisy and the work of history on your part. Did these people have identity, or did Tito and Communism create it? I had read it, but I have to read it again from "Life in the grave", which speaks both of language and of identity. He says: “They understand it perfectly, and the Bulgarians and Serbs understand it. But they dislike the first Bulgarians because they took the children to the army. They hate the second ones who mistreated them for Bulgarians and look at us passive Romans with a lot of sympathetic curiosity, because we are spiritual subjects of the Patrik, the Patriarch, and they are also the graves of their forefathers and priests, who are carved with the sacred and mysterious Greek letters. These make us privileged in their eyes, although they do not want to be either Bulgar, or Bulgarians, or Srps, or Gurtz, only Makkon-tox.” You want these people to make them Bulgarians with the stagnant. There is no right and no national interest in this. We have no national interest in having a great Albania on our borders. Our country has always been a peaceful country, aiming to stabilise the region, as a factor of peace, stability and the defence of international law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u276	Minister, do you have two minutes to close?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u277	I shall conclude, Mr President. I have said many times that the issues of identity and ethnicity are not defined by international treaties. There is no ethnicity and identity in the Treaty of Ambassadors, nor is there any reason to identify them in what they are. What's the matter with us? Determining what is not to the extent that it affects our history, our identity, our culture. And that was done in the Treaty of Ambassadors with Article 7. So face history and the Greek people with honor. Greece cannot be a fearful country. Greece cannot be condemned to misery and inaction, as your policy has been all these years. Greece has a role and history in the Balkans and, above all, has a future. And this future is best served by the Prespecies Agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much to the Minister, Mr. Katrugalo. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is adjourned at the end of this debate: 'Repeal of the Final Agreement on Dispute Resolutions described in United Nations Security Council Resolutions 817 (1993) and 845 (1993), the End of the Interim Agreement 1995 and the establishment of a strategic partnership between the Parties'. It will be followed by a roll-call vote, which will be held in accordance with Rule 72(1)(c) of the Rules of Procedure. The roll-call vote has been requested by the President of Parliament under the Rules of Procedure. The acceptance of the draft law is "WHEN". Those who fail to accept the draft law say 'OH'. Refusing votes say "PARENT" The Secretary of Parliament and MP Evros Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and MP Imathia Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy are on the list. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, the Bureau has also received letters from fellow Members present on a mission from the Government abroad, in which they state their vote on the draft law. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the following count. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u279	"NOW" to treason!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u280	If Mr Barbarousis wants to vote again, he'll do it. The vote shall be deemed void.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u281	What are you talking about? Come on, you fool. You're not ashamed anymore!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u282	There is no vote 'No to treason'. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u283	Traitors!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u284	Traitors! Come on, you fool! You're ridiculous!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u285	Traitors!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u286	Where does it say the vote is cancelled?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u287	Please, sit down! Mr. Rabbit, Mr. Cassidy, sit down! [[Noise - intense protests from the Golden Dawn wing]] Please sit down or come out of the Hall. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u288	Tell me what Rule of the Rules of Procedure says that the vote is being cancelled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u289	Please, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u290	What article says that the vote is cancelled? Bring us the article!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u291	Mr Cassidy, because I don't want you to tell me another three times, I'll tell you what this is all about. This vote is taken by 'NAH', 'OH', 'APPROVAL'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u292	Mr Stamatis said 'No, never' and you said nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u293	Please, sit down. I'm so calm on purpose! [[Noise - protests from the Golden Dawn wing]] Now why don't you listen to me? Sit down. I'm not gonna let it happen, no matter how hard you try. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u294	Before Barbarousse was repeated ten times the same. Why didn't you talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u295	Listen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u296	It was repeated ten times before that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Cassidy, will you listen to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u298	Are you going to answer what I'm asking you? They repeated it ten Members previously. Why didn't you talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u299	If you want an incident, there's a way to solve it. What you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u300	You want to provoke it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u301	You're making the episode.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u302	I am quite right to say to you: this vote is by 'NAH', 'OH', 'OH', 'APPROVAL'. There was also a "safe" and a "never", but "prostitutes" were not heard. And that's why I'm telling you. A vote that has political content with it is not counted as a vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u303	Repeat, Kotzias can vote again!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u304	Please very much, Mr. Cassidy. That's why I said that Mr Barbarousis should go back in and count his vote. That's what this is about. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u305	Kotzias should come first and then we'll repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u306	I keep explaining while I shouldn't. I keep explaining, because I have a full conscience and experience of momentary history.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u307	Based on what is said, the Kotzia vote is void!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u308	Mr Barbarousis, you said 'OF'. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u309	I said "OR" to betrayal and say "OR" to betrayal!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u310	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u311	Based on your words, the Kotzia vote is void.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u312	This vote should be recorded as 'OH'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u313	That's a reason for nullity. Do it! I challenge you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u314	What do you say, sir? There is neither a vote "Yes to the triumph" nor "No to treason" nor "Yes to anything else". There is 'NAH', 'OH', 'OR'. Mr Barbarousis said 'No'. Please write it down. What can I tell you about this episode?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u315	We didn't cause it. You caused it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u316	Yeah? What do you think? I would ask that we continue reading the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u317	I am also voting 'OH'. After my vote was recorded, I declare that you are traitors and sold.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u318	Quiet, please. Now what are you doing? Sit down. I'm telling you, I'm not going to let it happen. It was raining out a lot. They were few. They were yelling for four hours for "Allies, traitors of politicians". It's closed, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u319	You are!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u320	The whole people say it, I'm not the only one saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u321	Please, the vote will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u322	Ladies and gentlemen, if I am not mistaken, there are no absentees. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u323	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, sixty-two students and students and four educational sessions from the 3rd High School of Preveza. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 272a]] A total of 300 Members voted. In favour of the bill, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 153 MPs. [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] Against the bill, i.e. 'OH', they voted 146 MPs. ‘PARON’ voted 1 Member, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u325	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Preparation of the Final Dispute Resolution Agreement described in United Nations Security Council Resolutions 817 (1993) and 845 (1993), the End of the 1995 Interim Agreement and the establishment of a Strategic Partnership between the Parties’ was accepted by a majority and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u327	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. [[In order to be produced as an annex to the Minutes, the speeches of Members on the list of Members who have not been able to speak during the sitting, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice, are presented here.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-25-S1-commons.u328	With the consent of the House at 15.30 p.m. the sitting of the next Monday, 28 January 2019, at 18.00 p.m., on the subject of the body's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
