ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate on today's topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 14 October 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Katrougalou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on 'Do not be lost, because of inertia and bilingualism, the promotion of the national interests of the Prespecies Agreement'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 858-10-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "To open the procedure for subsidising freight and to introduce the transport equivalent to and for Crete the transport of fuel and passenger traffic". 3. The question by number 717-10-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The situation in special education and education". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 80/8-10-2019 by MP for the East Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The proceeds from the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture at the offices of the former Ministers and the General Secretary of the Ministry". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 73/7-10-2019 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister of Tourism, on "The Function of Municipal Hydrotherapies of Ikaria". 3. The question by number 82/8-10-2019 of Mr Nicholas Igoumenidis, Member of Parliament, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nicholas Igoumenidis, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on "Actions of the Greek side following the private announcement on German allowances". The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House, in writing, of the following: 'About the debate on topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Friday 11 October 2019, it becomes impossible to present: the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikos, to whom Nos Nos. In this connection, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, as well as the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, has made a number of comments. Questions Nos 65/1-10-2019, 70/7-10-2019, 76/8-10-2019, 78/8-10-2019, 83/8-10-2019 106/2-8-2019, 428/28-8-2019 questions, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, due to an impediment, i.e. a parallel exercise of parliamentary duties, which it has submitted in the minutes of the Conference of Presidents of 10 October 2019, at the meeting of which the decision of the Conference of Presidents was reaffirmed as of 24 July 2017. So the following topical questions will be answered: The numbers. 66/2-10-2019 and 74-7-10-2019 topical questions will be answered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. Question No 37/24-9-2019 will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Georgios Koumoutsakos. Question No 39/24-9-2019 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Apostolos Vessiropoulos. Please, as you do, in order to inform both the President-in-Office and the honourable Members of the proceedings.’ So we begin with the sixth Question No 37/24-9-2019 on a second question by MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition, Ioannis Mousala, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Designing the Government on the refugee - immigration question'. Mr. Muzala, you have the floor for two minutes. There will always be a year to help develop the question, but also the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I should also like to thank the Minister, Mr Kumucako, who, despite the undeniable workload, is here today to discuss my question. Minister, the New Democracy held two or three meetings on immigration - refugee. It came out with heavy propaganda, propaganda announcements which ask us whether, apart from propaganda, it will do specific things in order to be able to deal with the management and not the solution of the refugee - immigration. I'll mention very simple words like Evros' sealing. All Evros, Thrace, and Thessaloniki laugh at each other because the flows continue properly. It's not your responsibility. Your responsibility is that you believed or went to convince our people that Evros would be sealed. It is the first heavy statement - you have never personally made it - that the second degree of asylum examination will be abolished. This is a famous story about the lack of border guarding from the previous government, our own government, which is causing problems. And you will find them before you in your participations in the councils of Europe, where I am sure you will support our country's positions. The Visegrad countries have used this argument, that we need to get out of Sagen because, as New Democracy says, we are not keeping our borders well. I think that these are propaganda attributes, but they are of a major importance. It is also like saying that the institutions in which the Greek people believe, such as the army and the police, if SYRIZA tells them to guard the border, are guarding them. Otherwise, they're being prostitutes. Then the New Democracy comes, says something else, and they do something else. I am sure this is not your opinion. Your entire parliamentary course shows it. And it's obviously not ours, too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will ask two specific questions, which I really do not do opposition, Minister. I'm doing them because we need answers. And above all, you need to be transformed into action too. One is exactly what you mean when you say that the second degree will be abolished. That was explained later. The second measure will not be abolished. There's gonna be some changes. If you're ready to tell us these changes so that we can judge them. I would like to tell you that any change within the framework of International Law and Human Rights facilitates the quicker examination of asylum, we will be with you. To conclude, I would like to ask you, but above all, to bear in mind that we are - and you, as Minister of State, have a greater responsibility - in the face of a very big problem. It was very big when, for example, Moria was only five and a half thousand. Now that it's thirteen thousand, it's even bigger. The same goes for Samos. We are in front of what, in my years and years of Mr Vitsa, we said 'winterness'. In other words, what measures do you intend to take - should you have already proceeded - so that these people, who are in very bad conditions, who go beyond the limits of the humanitarian crisis, can live up to the heavy conditions of winter? Honestly, my questions are not of a opposition nature. And I'd be happy to have specific answers. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Muzala. Minister, you have the floor for at least three minutes. Please don't consult the table, because there's no synchronization at the moment. I hope techs make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Muzala, Mr. Colleague, there is an introductory part to your question and your two questions. In the introductory part you referred to heavy propaganda, you spoke of words without the government's content. You're wrong and you know it. First of all, let us say, Mr Colleague, that today's debate is taking place at a time when developments and events in our region confirm that the sources of new migratory flows that started around mid-July and reached a dramatic rise are related to geopolitical and political factors outside the country. It's a very important date on this path. Apart from the fact that the flows began to rise as early as May, there is a certain date that has an interest in holding back. That is the 15th of July, that is, a few days after that government took over. On 15 July there is a Council decision of the European Union which imposes on Turkey countermeasures - or sanctions for its policy in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Republic of Cyprus. From that point on and in conjunction with the neighbour's geopolitical targets, which we are living through these days, a barrage of Turkish declarations with a threatening content in terms of increasing flows to the west, to Europe, namely to Greece. It was not so much the content of these statements that had been repeated in the past, but their frequency, which showed and pre-communicationed the escalation of migration flows. So, within a short period of two or three months, we had a peak influx. The new government has been faced with this phenomenon, this'mini crisis', say. The source of these flows is outside Greece. I mean, out of control of the country. This phenomenon generally goes beyond the country, so it is European, to add to the following situation, Mr President. In Lesvos, in the CYT, we received 100% more people than it predicts, i.e. while it provides for three thousand hundred, we had five thousand five hundred. They're almost 100% more people. In Samos we had 500% more people, because the reception and identification centre provides for six hundred forty-eight, while there they had three thousand seventy-two. This situation was associated with - with ratings, but were, however, overcrowding ratings - in all reception and identification centres on the islands and within their territory. So the new flows have come about in this already excessively prosperous situation. The new government has held a series of meetings and discussions in depth in order to provide the appropriate answers to the new situation. And they were given. At the Ministerial Council on 30 September it was decided to strengthen border guarding, because you must have a security culture to believe and follow border-enhancing policies, which we believe was a deficit during your own governance. There was no philosophy of border protection. I am not saying that you did not protect the country's borders, because that is what you understand how serious it would be, but the idea that immigration - refugee - is a security issue was not at all visible to your policy. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] We have therefore decided to strengthen the borders with specific measures. We have decided on the necessary construction of closed pre-regulatory centres, the strengthening of local societies, the change in the legislative framework in order to know, know who the Greek state is who those asylum seekers who are entitled to international protection and who are not entitled and who a favoured state should not be entitled to return them and until it returns them, to keep them limited. We also decided on the decongestion of the islands: we had to do this because new flows were added to the already over-populated situation we received. Finally, the government decided to internationalise the problem by all means and all the means at the moment. Do you have any objection to this policy? Do you have anything else to suggest on a mini-crisis that has been dealt with during the summer months, namely the months that the European Union has been working and in the 'broadcasting' of two committees, one that has not yet been established? I am saying all this to show which environment we were called exceptionally to take action. What I described to you has any elements of oligoly, inefficiency, lack of realism? I think not. You asked me about the second grade. Bearing in mind that we have received a loose end to the order of about seventy-five thousand unprocessed asylum applications, which, in fact, will take more than one year, is there anyone who believes there or need to speed up asylum procedures in the country? Isn't there a need to increase refunds? Obviously, there is. Therefore, the legislation we will be tabling in a few days is precisely the aim of this. By taking advantage of the possibilities of international law and European directives to shape a much tighter and more robust legal framework for examining asylum applications. We will do so in full application of Community law, such as, for example, its dimension is to include in Greek asylum law the possibility of detaining that directive and which you did not incorporate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u6	Minister, please complete your speech. You'll have time in your dentistry too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u7	My second word will be very brief, Mr President. The vulnerability criteria were forgotten, which you know, Mr. Muzala. From about forty-five thousand applications for a certain period of time, thirty-eight thousand were vulnerable. This is not a normal function of the asylum procedure. And finally, do we have a schedule? What are we gonna do? Are we ready? Well, the government within these confiscated two and a half months has actually drafted a National Strategic Reception Plan 2019-2020, which is complete with medium-term, short-term and strategic goals, has already been submitted to the European Commission and is being processed for final approval by the Ministry's political leadership. It's a matter of a few days to testify to you. That's the plan. It's a multipage, detailed and specific. So we have done what was humanely possible at that time and that is at the same time as intense internationalisation. With initiatives, with concrete actions taken by the government. In the limited time of this process I tried to give you the full extent and the challenge that we have faced as soon as the government was formed, but also the actions that have been taken in a short time, so that the country can be shielded against a new challenge, which - as the latest developments show - seems to take new and more intense forms.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Mousala, before I give you the floor for your dentistry, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-three students and three students and their three teachers, from the 1st General Lyceum of Pallinis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr Muzala, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u9	Minister, no one will agree more with you than me that the factors that led to this mini-crisis - it makes no sense to relate to the tragedy of 2015 and I know that you do not - are geopolitical factors outside Greece. I fear that those who disagree with you are your fellow Members of your space and the positions that New Democracy has developed before becoming a government. However, let us stick to the fact that we have an absolute agreement with you on what are the factors that have led to this mini-crisis you are really facing. I would say to you that I do not address charges, but there has been frugality, and that is why Moria from the five thousand three hundred to thirteen thousand, because scheduled refunds have been postponed in the inland of the vulnerable. That puts it in a position of responsibility. When I talk about propaganda, Minister, it's not something that I pay to you, but I pay to the government. It is propaganda and even dark. We need to investigate what? That it is no longer a refugee problem, but it is an immigration problem. The arrivals are 65% with 70% refugee arrivals based on International Law. There's a reduction. It was 75% to 80% and it became 65% to 70%, but that does not turn the problem into migration. The second is this. Let me get you an example. The government spokesman came out and said: "The KYSEA at the last meeting we held decided on one, two, three, four, to go to Turkey and Germany's interior ministers." Come on! Isn't that propaganda? Unless we have a Ministerial Council that can send the interior ministers of France and Germany to Turkey, Greece, Bangladesh, where he wants to send them. To be specific again. Clearly, both SYRIZA and I personally had a highly developed security culture, and that is why, in the big crisis of ten thousand arrivals a day and in the next few years, we had no episode of violence or terrorists, and we also had an increase in crime, obviously small in such migratory waves. Based on police data, it's less than 1%. I am therefore not targeting security culture. It was a culture we had. Our cooperation with the NSA, with the Police and with the Army was continuous and led to results and I wish this thing happen with you. The new Republic's forces on the islands were the ones who unbelievably fought the proposal that SYRIZA put forward in September 2016 to build a serious pre-repeal centre outside the CYT in Mytilini, Lesvos, to be built in Samos, to be built in Chios. The war has been unrelenting. It's written what was said. There's no point in opposing this. I'm glad you're gonna do that now. But I would like to tell you that there is the reservation. In my opinion, it is a tool without which you cannot manage these flows, but there are restrictions that can replace the reservation. I suggest you use both tools. We will judge them according to how and when they will be used. You didn't answer me about the reunion. I do not think it is necessary to answer that question. I would like to warn you that it is very likely that the coming winter will return to the detriment of the country, return to the detriment of refugees and migrants and that it is a point for which you will not be personally happy in the rest of your life, as I do, on matters that have happened in my own ministry. My attempt really is to avoid that. Minister, I would like to finish by telling you that you made a big mistake as government. You have transferred the people from Syme, whom you have been slow to carry. We went as soon as the weather allowed it, every day, every second or third day. In Symposium, all smugglers, poachers, deposit refugees or immigrants. Our rush was to take them from Symi and wherever there was no CTBT and take them to the reception centers. You're late. It's a charge, but I don't really want you to stay on the charge. I want you to stay in his knowledge that you're late. There were too many people together, you went to create a social incident, you transferred them, you did well in the end, but you carried them before you identified them, Minister. That's too dangerous. Since 2015 when I became Minister, there was no one who was identified before coming to the mainland. They were transported unarmed to reception centres, under good or bad conditions. I don't blame you for that. You can't have the best conditions within a month. I believe that you will shape them and we will fight for them too, but some people who had not been able to identify themselves have already left the reception centres. I still don't tell you as a complaint. I'm telling you, something you're going to have to take very seriously in your mind. In conclusion, I also told you in my first speech, we are here to support any measure that helps better manage this issue and does not violate international law, the Geneva Treaty, European law and our national laws. We will be against you everything that creates such problems and dangers for this. Take note of and prepare for it. The Syrian crisis, this illegal invasion of Turkey in northern Syria, will inevitably create a large wave of refugees, on which smugglers will also adapt a similar wave of immigrants. The country should be prepared. That responsibility falls to you, Minister. We will be here to help positively and to stand up to the negative. But I would ask you to take this very seriously. Perhaps this mini-crisis that you have been through will develop after the latest actions - which are geopolitical and which is not your responsibility - in a greater crisis that we should be ready for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u10	The Minister has the floor. I'm not saying for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u11	Yes, and Mr Mouszalas spoke more than his time, but it is an interesting debate that is taking place in a substantial way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u12	And at the Conference of Presidents, Mr Minister, we said that we should somehow improve our response times to the current questions, because in two and three minutes no one has had time for anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u13	You are right, and I think that the Bureau should see it at this point of view, because very serious issues arise in this process, which often do not have an opportunity to discuss even in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u14	You must bear in mind all of you - and Mr Muszalas and you - that I am here too and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u15	In other words, such an issue, which is a zonon, concerns public opinion every day more every day, and it is only natural that, because it is a multi-level issue. It concerns security, the economy, it testifies to the democraticity of the states, if you like, on a larger scale is testifying to the cohesion and unity of the European Union. I shall start with the last thing Mr Muzalas mentioned. For Syria. We don't have hallucinations, Mr. Muzala. Turkey's attack on Syria is a factor that can create new waves of refugees, especially if it attempts, on the major Syrian chess board, to balance Turkey's move with another attack on the Assad regime, on other sides of the border, and I am thinking above all of Syria's north-west border, which is much closer to our country. So we have an absolute consciousness of all the scenarios. The mild, the difficult and the very extraordinary. As you can see, however, the way in which these scenarios are handled is not notified before time. You referred to the fact that it is wrong by the government to use the term "immigrant" and you provided information that, in your view, is the opposite. We talked about the trend of the flow. The trend in recent months, over the last few months, is a trend towards strengthening the migration profile of people arriving in our country and reducing its refugee profile. This situation has been reflected by the word 'immigrant' in front of the word'refugee'. We are therefore talking about a country's immigration and refugee issue. We don't have propaganda. We speak on the basis of the reality we face. You say we're late for the decongestion of the islands. Mr Mouszala, if the decongestion took place at the peak of liberties, arrivals and flows, would this not work as an additional factor in attracting other people? It was, therefore, considered that it had to be at another moment to be able to measure how the phenomenon would evolve. We have no certainty, no one knows how the next day will turn out. However, when the neighbour has a specific policy, and sometimes our cooperation works, he does not, on his own account, at any time. So we had to see what time it was to decongest the islands so that they wouldn't come even more than those who would leave. So this study of the time of movement was what you consider to be a delay. As far as internationalisation is concerned, this is not a simple word without content. Internationalisation was made at UN level by the Prime Minister, if you wish with my own visit and the discussions I had, not only with Mr Soilou, but also with two members of the Turkish Government. And here I want to stress something, because I saw it written. Discussions with Turkey are not a bilateral problem. It is the Greek-Turkish dimension of a Euro-Turkish regulation, resulting from the EU-Turkey Joint Declaration of 2016. We never bloced it. We're not going to bilateral it. It is precisely because we are in the context of a joint declaration by the European Union and all the Member States with Turkey. We are, however, the Member State that is next to it, and we must discuss as often as possible with the Turkish side. That doesn't mean we agree. We have many divergent views and my discussions were not easy at all in Ankara. But other things have happened. A task force was set up within the European Union by the European first-line states in the Eastern Mediterranean, namely Bulgaria, Greece and Cyprus. We have decided and thought that it is no longer right for Greece to push alone, but all the Eastern Mediterranean countries, which are under the greatest pressure, must go and push Europeans accordingly. This has even become imperative since the Malta agreement, which we now want to make use of as a precedent in our own region. But internationalisation has also been done in another way. Actions and initiatives were taken on the issue of unaccompanied minors to UNICEF. Meetings that took place here, but also in New York. The Director-General of UNICEF responsible for the region of Europe and the Middle East sent a letter, which is very pressing to the European Presidency and the Member States, to show solidarity with Greece and to take unaccompanied children. The initiatives will not stop. You have no doubt that we are doing everything we can to deal with the situation. We've studied what can come. We hope the situation does not lead to a new type 2015 crisis. We are prepared in the best possible way, both internally and externally, because these are the two major fronts of immigration. Anyone who thinks they're treated only on the inside or on the outside is making a huge mistake. You've handled it, and you know. You're not making this mistake. But it must not be public opinion that should do so. It is a complex matter, it is a difficult and demanding matter. We're dealing with people, but we're also dealing with the security of the country. The combination of the two makes its management extremely complex. We should not perpetuate the political conflict between the present and the past, because, as I have been given the opportunity to tell you in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when the present and the past are constantly being debated, the only loser is the future. We are therefore in the face of a new period of probable exacerbation of the migration-refugee and such debates, such as today's contribution to the formation of a policy, of which at least public opinion can feel a sense of security. This is also a very important element of a serious governance and a serious country, when it is in the face of such a problem, beyond its capabilities. In a few days' time there is a meeting of the European Union. Mr. Prime Minister will be there. We will discuss immigration. Be sure that you and the National Representation and all those who listen to us will address the issues that concern Greece, with emphasis, with arguments and requests that will not be Greek. Greece has no requests. Europe needs the Eastern Mediterranean and that will become emphatically visible. If we find ourselves in a degraded situation - and I mean Syria, not Greece - we always have the opportunity, if we judge, at some point to invoke Article 78.3 of the Treaty, which provides for Community solidarity for countries which are exceptionally influential to refugees and migrants. Everything's on the table. Everything has been studied. We'll do what we have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u16	We thank the Minister and Mr Muzala. Now we will discuss the seventh under number 39/24-9-2019 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Tryphoto Alexiadis to the Minister of Finance, on "Exemption of the training of auditors to private companies". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mr. Alexiadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. The purpose of the question, Mr Minister, is to highlight the big issue created by the Ministry of Finance, by the assignment of the training of auditors to private audit firms, i.e. by the assignment of the auditor training to the auditors. I would like to begin by making it clear that we do not lose time in the debate at a later date and with the suffocating margins of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I shall say at the outset, therefore, that it is self-evident - and I stress it - that we must have the continuing education and training of the Ministry of Finance's control mechanisms and why, unfortunately, it is changing with our own bad initiatives, the House, the fiscal framework and why new data are being created, and there must be continuing education and retraining in the already trained and highly skilled, personnel of the Ministry of Finance. That is why, following from the previous one, we as a government of SYRIZA brought the tax Academy, which intended to fill this gap, namely an institution that would be involved in training the control mechanism, tax, customs and other officials, separate from the remaining structure of the Ministry of Finance, with tax, customs, university teachers, etc. Unfortunately, a procedure has begun in the Ministry of Finance for the award of the training of auditors to private audit firms. I'm not going to read you a statement of SYRIZA's organization. I will read to you what the Federation of Taxes says, which is not controlled and friendly to SYRIZA. You know very well, because we've been through these spaces, that in her leadership, of course, they're also friendly on the Radical Left, but it's not controlled by our own space. The federation says: 'that the questions raised are reasonable and are directed towards the administration of the AIA: What kind of know-how can any audit firm, when their work is as tax officers, to control companies - customers of the audit firms? How transparent and moral can such a process be? What exactly has the Tax Academy been introduced for when key pieces of education in the ADP are assigned to private audit firms? Why are the tax services, such as the Audit Service, the Complaints Directorate, the Tax Academy, denounced by the AIA in such a categorical way?’ I understand, Minister, that there can be quite a lot of what we are discussing before there were procedures in the Ministry of Finance. They may have been committed to entrusting technical assistance or elsewhere - and quite rightly so - to helping us in education, but in no way getting to the point where we give private audit firms this object. That is why the timely question has been tabled and I am waiting for your reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u18	Mr President-in-Office has the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you are experienced and aware of the issues relating to tax policy and you have nursed in the Ministry of Finance. I am therefore surprised to hear the scandal you are using, because it is quite simply a programme of technical assistance for the provision of know-how and information to the Independent Public Income Authority and for combating tax evasion and smuggling and increasing the collection of public revenues. This technical assistance is provided to the AIA by the European Commission itself through the Structural Reform Support Office. It is a common practice in other countries of the European Union. I imagine that you are now recognising the need for both information and know-how to deal with tax evasion and the need for cooperation between the tax authorities of the countries of the European Union. I say this to you, because as an opposition you had voted against the relevant European directives, but then as a government you brought bills based on these directives and voted on them. I think that the cubism and the shift that you have made in previous years by abandoning extreme positions should make you more careful. As all of us are aware, know-how and information is not a scandal. In particular, where there is no involvement of either the Government or the ADP in the selection of the contractor to undertake the work of providing know-how. Contractors undertaking technical assistance shall be selected exclusively by the European Commission Structural Reform Support Office, without any involvement of the service receiving technical assistance in relation to the selection process. In particular, the Contracting Parties shall be the Contracting Parties and the Structural Reform Support Office. Even more so, when the contract is not notified to the beneficiary of technical assistance. As I said, it is a practice adopted by the SYRIZA government. For the time being, there are similar technical assistance projects to the ADP related to the execution of contracts as part of the grant agreements for the provision of general assistance for the years 2016 and 2018. In 2016 and 2018 we were not government, it was SYRIZA. I would also like to inform you that requests for participation by operators in the technical assistance programmes are submitted by the Greek authorities to the National Coordination Authority. Until the vote on Law 4622 on 7-8-2019 for the final state, the National Coordinating Authority was the General Secretariat for Coordination. The National Coordinating Authority shall determine the degree of priority for the requests of the Greek authorities before they are formally submitted to the European Commission's Structural Reform Support Office. The final adoption of the projects to be financed shall be carried out by the relevant Council of the European Commission. Basically, the European Commission decides who the contractor is, since it signes the contract and handles the budget of the project. From there no one has devalued the work and the role of the Tax and Customs Academy, which I shall speak about in my dentistry. They simply all know that the purpose of the Tax and Customs Academy is to train ADP officials on the laws and regulations and procedures applicable and applied in Greece and not to inform the ADP staff at the earlier stage of the development of new control and collective procedures or drafting of circular plans and decisions for any best international practices abroad. This is why contractors are selected for the technical assistance programme and the provision of know-how for best practices implemented internationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u20	Me too, Minister. Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u21	Mr Minister, I will submit in the Minutes the three documents I have read before, so that this House can be fully informed. But you referred to my experience with the Ministry of Finance. Because of my experience with the Treasury, I call the whole thing a scandal. Because since 1987 I have been at the Ministry of Finance, I have never remembered a private audit firm taking over the training of auditors. In other words, the auditor Alexiadis is trained by the sworn auditor Vésiropoulos - the name - and tomorrow, when the auditor Alexiadis goes to a company to check, he will be a representative of the company, Mr. Vésiropoulos, that is to say, the sworn auditor. You understand the contradiction, I understand the political reasons you do not want to insist. As far as the issue of education is concerned, of course, we also need higher education institutions, public bodies, scientific bodies, of course, and to be exploited! Of course technical assistance will also be exploited, as did we. And I have said it myself from the Step of the House that, in the fight against tax evasion and smuggling, "you will alleviate even with the devil", you will get any help possible. For this reason, we have proceeded, for example, on the issue of using the Boyarns list, on the offer made by the German State to train for free, to host for free, to provide any technical assistance we had on these issues, but under no circumstances can we accept what you have gone through. And I am struck by the political argument that we have asked for technical assistance from some European agencies, the European agencies have chosen private audit firms and these audit firms have come to train! Search at some point, Minister, if some of these traffic control companies that provide assistance to Greece were also audit companies that had been supported by large piles that went bankrupt or other procedures. Because it's really gonna be a joke to keep the wolf guarding the sheep. However, as far as the issue of referring to the SYRIZA Government is concerned, of course, we have asked for technical assistance and, of course, we have done these programmes and we have done very well. But not technical assistance should be directed to other situations, because you think of defendants who are smuggling fuels or accused of issues - because there was a debate before - of smuggling people into a NGOs, of getting a programme from the European Union and then coming to the government and saying: 'What should I do? The services have chosen an NGO, which has made smugglers and taxmen, to train auditors." That's a few minutes on the question. Now, because you also expanded to the issues of pregnancy, one word will only say about it. We look forward with great concern to the SYRIZA to begin the debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the preliminary draft budget, which will prove to be the most obvious way of ensuring the government's high sustainability, which has been telling us some time ago that the tax burden will be reduced and on page 22 of the budget, we see 600 million additional taxes - I hope, therefore, that these will be explained - and that insurance contributions will be reduced, but in the preliminary draft on page 43, we see 660 million extra insurance contributions. However, this is what we have in the debate on cubicness there. In conclusion, I, Mr Minister, would like to submit to the Ministry of Finance's 'Guarantee', so that I do not have to submit a request for documents and we are tired of Parliament's services, all the relevant documents relating to this award, to see exactly how much it cost, what correspondence and all the relevant documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u22	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u23	My colleague, everyone realizes that there is no scandalous case. The technical assistance project, to which you refer, was a request from the SYRIZA General Secretariat for coordination and the European Commission has chosen the contractor to implement it. The final adoption of the projects to be financed shall be carried out by the relevant Council of the European Commission. In accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/825 of 17 May 2017 on the establishment of the Structural Reform Support Programme for the period 2017 to 2020 and amending Regulations (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 648/2012 and (EU) No 648/2012). Regulations (EU) No 1303/2013 and (EU) No 1303/2013 are hereby amended as follows: 1305/2013’, the European Commission may, with the consent of the beneficiary Member State, organise support under that programme in cooperation with other Member States, or European and international organisations. It is therefore clear that the selection of the contractor is not required to involve the Greek Government and the AIA, which makes use of the programme concerned. You are also aware that the AACC regularly receives expertise and information on best international practices in a number of issues relating to its operational issues. You are also talking about entrusting the training of auditors to "trainers", which the next day will be the consultants of companies controlled on tax matters. First of all, do you know who they are? Secondly, how do interoperable and corrupt phenomena arise? Isn't that insulting to ADP officials? And in view of the fact that this is a constant tactic applied to all European countries, do you think that this mechanism of know-how creates phenomena of interactivity and corruption in all European countries and, indeed, under the responsibility of the European Commission's Structural Reform Support Office? Is that what you're telling us? In addition, the technical assistance programmes that are already being implemented in the ADP and started by your own governments in 2016 and 2018 also serve this complexity and corruption? The opposition has an institutional role. She could be useful. The opposition, however, to the opposition, the blind and conflicting opposition, offers nothing. With regard to the Tax and Customs Academy, the Government intends to strengthen its function even further in the direction of upgrading the professional training of tax executives. I would like to inform you that for 2019, until August, he has participated in educational programs around 20% of the human resources of the ADP. Eighty-four in-room training courses were also organized in seven cities and seven distance training courses. At the moment, introductory training is carried out for five hundred forty-eight young tax and customs officials, recruited in the ADP, in accordance with the 1C 2017 notice of the AACC. The first training course for young people was launched on 16-9-2019, and the second series will begin on 18-11-2019. It is clear that it does not only degrade the Tax and Customs Academy, but also strengthens its role and tasks and will be further strengthened by implementing new education and training programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Now we will discuss the second question with number 66/2-10-2019, on the second question of the new Member of Parliament, Mr Charalambos Kastanidis, on the subject of "The intentions of the Government for the Organisation for Urban Transport of Thessaloniki (OSTH)". Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for several years now, and of course, it seems that there has been no overall planning transport policy in the country's second largest urban complex. And that is negative if someone sees and the problems that are gradually burdening citizens' movement. I'm starting with these problems. In recent years, Minister, I am sure you have been told by your services and you know that - a gradual - and yet dramatic - drop in the quality of the services provided by the OSH to the citizens of Thessaloniki, because of the sixteeneen buses of the OSH fleet about half of them there are moments where the fleet is aged. In the past few months, there have been problems in supplying even spare parts in order to correct immobilised cars. You realise that in this way, when we have a serious reduction in traffic, citizens face great difficulties in moving them. A debate with citizens of Thessaloniki can convince anyone about what is happening. One of the main reasons is to increase the age of the buses. While in the early 2000s, the original contract was planned and set in twelve years the age of the buses of OSH was gradually set, with decisions by governments and the New Democracy, but also by SYRIZA's last, time increased to twenty-three years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A second problem is that, at some point, the service provided by OSTH to deliver, in unknown time, a metro of Thessaloniki. Maybe I'll give it a chance to explain what I mean. Of course, something that we would like to clarify from the government - I have not heard so far and it would be useful for all citizens to know - is whether the government has the same view as the previous one, i.e., after the OSH's statisation with No 4482, whether it will maintain the same institutional framework or whether it intends to change it. Furthermore, if, as I have heard from the most formal lips, the Prime Minister and other official bodies interviewed me, the government intends to assign around 1/3 of the OSH transport project to a CBEL, even a neighbouring one, and without the competitive process, which is an essential process, provided for by both the Community institutional framework and the internal legal system. I note - and I conclude with this, Mr President - that the New Democracy, during its opposition years, also disagreed with the statification of the OSH with Law 4482, but voted against the relevant article of Law 4568 concerning the assignment of an OSTH transport project to the 'KELTHSALONIC S.A.'. I look forward to the Minister's replies so that we can see what you intend to do in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, since they participated in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and a training session from the 14th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, I think you're right. All residents of Thessaloniki know the tragic situation in which we found the city's urban transport. The daily suffering of citizens I think has come to points that are now embarrassing for a country that wants to be called a European Union country. Let's take things in turn. We had a dramatic fall in the fleet. We had virtual routes with the previous administration. We've had a huge drop in revenue. We had a state-owned body, which, Mr Kastanidis, received a 200% subsidy annually, when the European norm is 40%. It is a state-run system for which you will allow me to say that the European Commission, which approved it, has a huge share of responsibility. Thirty years the Commission has not approved any completely state-of-the-art reform and we have arrived in 2017 to have the first state-of-the-art state-of-the-art within the European Union! If you want, I can in dentistry develop what was the reason for the Commission's thinking. That's to put things in place. We as a opposition did something that I think was clear. We said that we were against stateism and a few days before the elections we had repeatedly said that what OSH urgently needs at this stage is the management of a crisis and the preparation of a plan to deal with the collapse of the organisation. You will allow me to say that we have taken these steps and continue to do so. And I'm explaining. Firstly, we placed very quickly new administration, meritfully and without party bumpers. In fact, we have chosen for the post of CEO, which is the most important, in my view, in these agencies, a person from within the organisation. Secondly, within less than two months we put in circulation a hundred twenty-seven additional buses. We received two hundred thirteen buses - the OSTH administration received, to be more precise - and today in the streets of the city of Thessaloniki there are three hundred buses forty. The difference is noticeable. Of course, however, we are not yet at the level that we should be. The new OSH administration, which took over, has been implementing an effective maintenance programme since 19 August. Of course, we are still far from the level we want. The first samples, however, will allow me to say that they are positive. Thirdly, the administration of the agency has started financial control. The first figures show that the OSH owes tens of millions of public funds and suppliers. But I do not want to go any further, given that the control is continuing. Fourthly, within the next two months, we have granted part of the transport project, as you quite rightly said, to the CCT. In particular, the OSH will cover the metropolitan zone, while the CBS will implement the execution of perimeter and long-distance routes. But this way, what did we do? In a process that we immediately needed, we gave the passenger public a first relief. I now come to the question you have raised on the legal framework of this decision. I have to say to you - because you also referred to No 4412, you also referred to Regulation No 1370/2017- that this is not an anti-Community procedure. After all, there has never been a problem with the European Commission, because it is quite simply, Mr Colleague, that is provided for in Regulation 1370, Article 5(5), in which it speaks of emergency measures when there is a crisis. I shall close, in reply to you in the - supposedly - bilingualism of the New Democracy on the issue of CCT. I would like to tell you that in Law 4482 the transport project was provided exclusively by OSH vehicles. So the government of SYRIZA came and took over an organization. The failure of stateisation is then proven because the government itself is simply legislating - and I can tell you in the Minutes - and in Article 54 in the draft law on water, urban road transport gives the right by direct delegation to the possibility of carrying out a transport operation by the CCT or other bodies. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] At that time, the New Democracy voted against, Mr Kastanides, this article for reasons of principle. Because, in fact, what we have said is that you are canceling the statement you have made and we cannot accept this setback. And our logic was exactly that. Our logic was that you cannot, on the one hand, stack a body and, on the other hand, accept that you have made a mistake and, instead of canceling stateisation, give from the back door - if you want - a transport project at the CBELs. But since then, Mr Kastanides, it has been two years and the situation has become even more tragic. Therefore, if we were to choose - because that is what you imply - to do the competitive procedures, there would be no means of public transport in the second largest city in Greece today. Because, as you well know, these competitive procedures would take a lot of time. We have therefore used the legal framework that exists in the European regulation - that is to say, Union law - and national law, to deal with an unprecedented situation of the collapse of the transport project in Thessaloniki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u28	Here, Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u29	Minister, the first thing I would like to point out is that, if OSH buses were increased after the new administration's interventions on three hundred moving buses, we have another major distance to go, because it is estimated by the experts that there is a minimum service for the citizens of the town complex when at least five hundred buses are circulating. Secondly, I insist that the task of the state-owned OSH to private companies - in this case the CBCs - can be carried out not by negotiation, but by means of a competitive procedure, if it is deemed that it should be entrusted with exceptional circumstances. So far I do not know whether we need to distinguish the exceptional circumstances in the SYRIZA period or in your current case, because your argument that in exceptional circumstances there might also be an assignment of OSH lines from the previous government. If you invoke exceptional circumstances, you will not assign much of the transport to the CBS. This is where we talk about 1/3 of the bus lines. And I suppose, too, that once the existing exceptional circumstances cease, then you will bring back the transport project to OSH. Will the government, once the exceptional circumstances cease, reinstate - according to your logic - the transport work in OSH, regardless of its legal personality? I'd be happy if you said so. This is all related, Minister, to the fact that there must be a comprehensive concept of passenger transport in Thessaloniki. Because I'm afraid that as things go on in the subway, it won't be a time of delivery in 2023. Mr President, after many years' delays, the original metro line is being carried out as a project in Thessaloniki, but creating serious problems for the Thessalonikis, especially in commercial traffic due to the dating construction sites. And now we are faced with this problem: it is the conflict of two views on what needs to be done with the Venizelos station. The government's view is that, in order to become the metro station in Venizelos, antiquities should be seconded and, after the works have been executed, returned. The view of the city's Officer and social institutions is that the construction of the metro station must be done in situ, i.e. the project to proceed, the station to be built while all the antiquities of the complex found at the Venizelos station remain in place. If I judge the council meeting a few days ago, the conflict, Minister, will be frontal, and that will have to be noticed. I can diagnose arguments positively or negatively on the one hand and on the other. I do not have the time to insist on this, but I must stress that it is good for the government to consider alternatives, in addition to the conflicting two sides, because I fear that at the end we will end up with a complete deadlock because of this frontal conflict, and the work will not go any further. Whether the metro delivery is delayed or not, you should have an alternative strategy for what you are going to do with a problematic organisation, as OSH has just come down with recently. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. I would ask the Minister to tell us clearly - that is my final wording - that is: Will you remain in the institutional framework of statism or not, if you change it, in what institutional direction will you do that? Do you think, for example, of exploiting social actors or participating in the first or second grades of Local Government? Urban transport anywhere in Europe is not private. Urban transport in Europe, primarily, is a task for local authorities, authorities, that is, self-government. That is what we would like to know, because they obviously have positive or negative effects on the whole strategy for passenger traffic, on Thessaloniki's transport project.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I should like to start answering one by one of your questions. You refer again to the reason why the government has decided to give the transport project to the CBELs and whether this is something that will continue or not. Our aim is not to continue. But let us come back to where we are today for a while. Today - as you rightly said - we have an ageing fleet of buses in Thessaloniki and Athens. In Thessaloniki, the situation is tragic and it is impossible at this time to have five hundred buses with the OSTH fleet to serve the entire municipality and the entire wider area of the city of Thessaloniki. So the solution we have chosen was - you will allow me to say - a one-way road. But I would like to mention something else. You said we're giving 1/3 of the transport project to the CBEL. Let's check out the numbers, 'cause I think it's interesting. We give 12.1 million voyages to the CBELs. The draft contract is ready and I have the feeling that it will be signed very quickly. Do you know how much the voyage cost to OSTH? It costs four euros per kilometre. The cost of the CBS is EUR 1,41. We've taken the data from the 3.3 million voyages, which are now executed by the Thessaloniki CCEEs, which show that the CCEEs can and are performing this project much cheaper. What we need to do from now on: We have a competition for new buses, which has been cancelled not by the government, as several SYRIZA Members have claimed, but by the independent authority. This means that we are at point zero, and we need to run, because we need to have a new competition to get several buses and serve both Athens and Thessaloniki. We must have legislation, we must increase the life limit of buses. The evidence says that in 2023 we need almost seven hundred buses in the OSH and OSH. So that's what we're doing. We're running the procedures. We are in contact with the European Investment Bank so that some part of the fleet is also electric buses, another place being thermal buses, because - as you can see - we cannot go directly to electricity, order seven hundred, eight hundred electric buses, because the cost is too great and we still have a transitional period until Europe reaches the full - if you like - cover for its transport needs only by electricity. So that's what we're doing, and it's understood that there won't be any extraordinary circumstances at that time. But we still need two years - at least eighteen months - to buy buses. The competition will therefore be ‘driven’. And we will soon be ready for this competition to run and have the results we want. Now, you ask me whether the agency will remain state-owned or not. Look at that, the answer is not easy for just one reason. Because Regulation 1370 speaks of public urban transport only for the Attica region. After 2019 the competitive procedures are released. And this is the responsibility of the previous government - you will allow me to say - because it has done nothing to prepare these competitions, so that we already have any objections from the Transport Commissioner responsible. And that means that Greece will be invited to pay fines because it has not run the competitive procedures. There is therefore an issue here as to what the response the European Commission will give if it considers that Thessaloniki is excluded along with Athens. If you want, my reading is that it cannot be excluded. Why then did he give the green light for the stacking of 2017? For two years? This is why Europe is also in need of the Commission's view, which, as I said to you, is responsible for the statification of the OSH and has to tell us. I would agree with you that private transport is also popular in Europe. In other words, we have many bodies involved in a city's transport project. And close up with the subway report. Look at you, you are right that this issue has been politicised for too many years. Let me take a step back and remind you that since 2010, on the basis of which the metro works are stopped. In 2013, an appeal is made to the S.T.E. And stop the play. This appeal was not finally vitiated in the S.H.E. A few people know that. The 2014 Decision on the secondment and relocation of antiquities was a decision approved by the CSCE in 2014. And then the government came and said we're going to another option, which is in situ choice. Conclusions? The absolute mess, if you want. One step, two back. Let me inform you that at the moment the project has not begun at Venizelos Station. Part of the so-called 'plan' has been built, but the station has not started for four years. Therefore, this proves a great deal of how wrong the decision was, because, if it were right, it would have begun. Studies would have been approved, passed through the CSCE and even started at 10%, 20%, the construction of the plant. The government's view is clear and says something very simple. It says that the 2014 decision is technically feasible. The same happened, I remind you, at the station of Agia Sophia, which is four hundred meters from Venizelos station and with more important antiquities than at Venizelos station. The same was done at too many stations when the subway was built in Athens. The in situ option is technically impossible, I dare say much more costly. Another issue is raised here, which we have not discussed in Parliament: As long as we are delaying the work, we risk ending up and paying from national resources, from the IGC, the completion of the metro projects, and if it is not over in 2024 or 2025, we risk the European Union coming and asking for all funding back. So we have a race to fight. I have the impression - and I will disagree with you here - that the situation on the municipal council was not the way you describe it, because now too many actors are in favour of this solution. The Technical Chamber of Greece is in favour of this solution, the local TEI in Thessaloniki is in favour of this solution, the Mayor of Thessaloniki is in favour of this solution, the Region of Central Macedonia is in favour of this solution. We are not saying that this solution is technically easy, but it is possible and we will try to do so. The third option that we examined, Mr. Kastanides, do you know what it was? To abolish the Venizelos station. There's no other choice. Well, then, we don't want to think about it, because you understand - because you are and you are dealing with years in Thessaloniki - that Venizelos station is the most central station in the metro of Thessaloniki. So you understand that if it is abolished, it is like abolishing the station in the Constitution in Athens. This solution is therefore a solution which we cannot discuss at this stage. The legal implications, which will also have this issue, will be enormous. So at the moment we have to get into a process of getting this issue out of the political controversy. And I think the people of Thessaloniki because, as you quite rightly said, they have been living with a construction site for over ten years - the commercial world in the area suffers there, I have visited the region many times and the grievance of the world is 'faith now, when will the suffering end?' - What he wants is subway. We want, Mr. Castanides, and metro and ancient ones. That is the goal of the government, and that is how we will go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much. The Minister will keep him a little further to answer the last of these questions today. So we move on to the debate of the fifth under number 747-10-2019 on the second-round question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Serious deficiencies in antisemitic shielding in the schools of the country". Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our question concerns, as you have heard, the earthquake and protection of the school units of the country. Of course, the issue of earthquake shielding concerns society more widely, all public and private buildings, but here we focus on school buildings. This summer's earthquake of 19 July has come, recently, and has once again highlighted the perfect, total lack of anti-Semitism shielding of our country's school buildings. And I'll be more detailed: Twenty-five, at least, schools, based on service documents, from the western districts of Attica were found unsuitable for use after the earthquake and remain closed. Let us mention some: Four primary schools in Aigaleo, one of which is also a special school, two kindergartens and a high school. Six school buildings in Haidari. In Menidios a high school, a primary school, except that school-leaving buildings are still in operation since the 1999 earthquake. In New Heraklion, a high school, two primary school. We are talking, Mr Minister, about thousands of children and hundreds of teachers. In all events, the Attica schools, which were characterized as 'inappropriate' after the earthquake, as we said, of the summer, even in those which had damage to their organism, for no one - look, for no one - were ordered an anti-Semitism study, according to the modern regulations, only restored or - I would say - they were hidden as - like the lesions, so that the school could function. Of course, this endangers, as you can see, the lives of thousands of pupils in a new and stronger earthquake which, of course, no one can rule out and no one knows when it will occur. Our questions are very specific, Mr Minister: what measures will your Government take for those schools which have damaged the recent earthquake, for the schools in Attica in particular, and have been described as 'inappropriate'? When will this "serious" pre-insurance check be completed - will I refer more thoroughly to my dentology - of all the schools in the country and when will secondary earthquake control begin in those schools - on the basis, of course, of the findings of the primary pre-insurance check - it is decided that further repairs are needed? Finally, what money does your government intend to give to municipalities and regions - why are they also involved in the general earthquake shield - for this secondary earthquake control by the state budget? We're waiting to hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your question, because I fully understand the interest that you and all of us must have in the effective anti-Semitism shielding of our public buildings and especially our schools. I think we all recognise that we are living in an area of intense seismic activity and need to be fully prepared and plan measures for earthquake protection. Let me focus on what we have done this time after the earthquake that took place on 19 July 2019 in Attica, but also the theories that took place in the Halkidiki Prefecture and we were called upon to deal with the first days that we took over the country's rule. Later, if you want, we can talk about the past, but in my first place I would like to talk about the facts of our own leadership, about our own effort. A few hours after the seismic event the technical tiles of the CCTP, i.e. the "Creative Infrastructures", were carried out, on the mandate of the Ministry, by primary post-Semitism controls. These checks were carried out in public buildings, in ministries, in services and in buildings within our framework of competence, with priority and hospitals in the affected area. In practical terms, to give you a scale of size, buildings in Attica more than a million five hundred thousand square metres have been controlled to date. Let's come to school bands now. We're talking about over three thousand schools all over Attica. So, in order to respond immediately, given the short period of time between the earthquake and the start of the school year, a direct order was sent - on July 25, 2019 - to every municipality of Attica and in this letter we asked to know whether the engineers of each municipality found damages requiring primary post-Security control. In this letter, Mr. colleague, seventeen municipalities responded to an urgent letter, such as Elefsina, Phyllis, Acharnon and Haidari and the technical steps of the CBYP, and the checks requested by the Municipality of Athens in the 6th and 7th district of the Municipality. We now come to the figures you have asked for. Of the three thousand more than eighty schools were judged to be in control of nine hundred and nineteen. All nineteen have been checked, while three hundred sixty-one checkpoints have been drawn up by the company. Of the three thousand more than eighty school units so far, only twenty-nine - a percentage of 1% - were damaged and the majority of them were not due to the recent earthquake. At this point I would like to highlight two things in order to understand the bureaucratic framework within which, unfortunately, we must function. Firstly, when we talk about primary post-Semitism control, we are talking about a rapid visual check that aims to inform the services responsible directly of any required repairs. It is only the damage that is being done in this control. The CBC shall not be competent to indicate how to replace. However, what we did, Mr Delis, and which, if you want, creates a situation that works for the benefit of speed, is that in emergency situations, as we did in several municipalities in Halkidiki, as we did in several municipalities in Athens, the Ministry can give direct credit to the municipalities to make repairs. And why are we doing this? We do because, as you can imagine, the municipalities have the ability to move, since they are in an emergency, with much faster procedures than the CIS. Secondly, this legislative framework that I described to you is a given, and it first provides for citizens to be addressed to the municipalities and at a later stage to the region. Only if the region fails, i.e. declaring weakness, shall a request be made to the CIS. This is the framework, which has existed all these years in Greece. However, we are trying to overcome the tangles of this framework with the so-called 'programming agreements' that the Ministry can make if each municipality so requests. In conclusion, I would like to thank the engineers, the civil servants of the CBYP, the human potential of the entire Ministry, who really since the first days we have just taken over the Ministry's sunshine, have really stood next to the Ministry's political leadership with incredible, unbelievable self-sacrificing experience. All organisations, in fact, once again stood up to the circumstances and showed an excellent professionalism. I would also like to assure you, Mr Delis, and the plenary that it is certain that, wherever our aid is requested, we will be fully assisted. Before I close, I refer to the second question concerning the funds. Mr. Delia, this isn't about the Ministry of Infrastructure. It's about the Ministry of Interior. I - to make it easier - have asked me and a reply has been sent from the Ministry of the Interior, which says that, in the national part of the PPC, a envelope has been provided for preventing and restoring damage from natural disasters. In fact, the Municipality of Haidari has submitted an application and has been financed with the sum of EUR 200,000 by the Ministry of Interior on 23 August. I put the official note from the Ministry of the Interior in minutes, which I think makes it easier to give you a more comprehensive answer to your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our question is, of course, on the occasion of the recent Attica earthquake but, as you can see, it is not confined to the earthquake of the Attica schools alone. It's about the whole country. In this sense and in relation to the "Building Infrastructures" - the company, which replaced the old School Buildings Agency - and in relation to its responsibility for the up-to-date primary audits, which are visual, as you know, we have a document from the company itself, the "Building Infrastructures", which I read: "To carry out audits in the overall building stock of the company's framework of competences, would require a multiplier of the existing skilled technical staff in engineers in the building sector." In other words, it acknowledges and acknowledges its inability to carry out first-level visual inspection. Minister, in Greece we have about sixteen thousand school buildings. Of these 25%, one in four, that is, it has been built before 1959. That is, in the absence of any earthquake regulation. 30% took place between 1959 and 1985 with a stubborn anti-Semitism regulation and the remaining 45%, from 1985 to now, was made with more modern anti-Semitism provisions. In other words, over half the school buildings are completely exposed and very vulnerable to seismic danger. That is what I think we should become aware of the state and not come here to present a idyllic picture of how the government faced the recent earthquake in Attica. We recall that after the 1999 catastrophic earthquake in Parnitha, the government then announced earthquake controls for all the schools in the country. From these buildings, visual prosthesis has only been completed for 25%, i.e. for the schools which were built before 1959, but to that extent nothing more - and without taking advantage of the results of this audit, even for those schools, that is, for 1/4, in order to make the earthquake studies and, of course, to lead to appropriate aid. Because studies are not done to do them, but we are doing them to strengthen the stagnation of school buildings. In other words, for the rest of the school buildings - that is, for the record of twelve thousand school buildings - the visual prosthesis has not yet been completed and twenty years have passed. I would say that we have to stop this outrageous situation, that is to say, that this primary prerogative is assigned to teachers, managers in particular, in order to determine the stagnation of the building. Mercy! What else will teachers become? They become bankers, are they also political engineers? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And of course, for twenty years in no school building has been an earthquake study, nor has the corresponding static aid, according to this earthquake regulation that exists, as if we are not living in the most seismic country in Europe, as if we do not have every little and little and even a strong earthquake here or elsewhere in the country. I would like to present a personal witness here from a legendary form - I would say - of the earthquake seismologists in Thessaloniki in 1978, who in a private debate said to me: 'Please beg when there is a great earthquake, that schools do not work'. Indeed, in the 1999 earthquake, comments were not working, they were a few days before they opened. In the recent earthquake, there were still no schools working. In the Mytilini earthquake, the image of the broken school is typical. I think that the responsibilities of all governments, like yours, are too heavy, because you have a political past, as a government I mean. So you have very great responsibilities, which are burdened with you, as are the state authority in general, that literally leave life and fate of students and teachers. I think that this is a political choice and it is, of course, the result of a policy, where projects of wider anti-Semitism and civil protection, anti-military and anti-nuclear protection are considered too simple a cost, are not selected for funding - it is well known - by the European Union and, of course, is considered excessive for both the State and the governments in the sense that they do not pay a reward. In other words, human life, as far as the earthquake is concerned, comes into the logic of cost and benefits. Finally, Mr Minister, I think that all school buildings should be immediately monitored. A certificate of suitability and stagnation should be assigned to them and, in fact, certificates certifying the suitability of the costs of escape, the safety of schools, the proficiency of yards and concentration areas. I repeat, we are living in the most seismic country in Europe, and, of course, we need to draw up a programme to build up new school buildings with modern anti-Semitism conditions. I think that's what they're already claiming. They will, of course, have to claim even more from parents and teachers and from the working people's movement, so that we can move to at least a situation - earthquakes are of course a certainty, they are made anyway - where we will be well prepared to deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u38	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u39	I would like to begin by saying to Mr Deli that, firstly, I believe that it does not help the debate talking about the wrong figures. I told you that out of the three thousand more than eighty school units that were controlled - and I am sorry, but anyone listening to this number that took place within a month will understand that it is a figure that shows that the CFP did, with the few engineers it has, a good job - only twenty-nine schools, that is, less than 1% of them had a problem, which is not due to the earthquakes. So let's not jeopardize, let's not sow panic and sit down and plan - I'll agree with you - a plan for earthquake shielding. One second thing I would like to mention is that, as you quite rightly said, we have sixteen thousand school units and it is impossible for the CFP to carry out an earthquake control over everyone. That's why there's a process that doesn't go to the school directors, Mr. Delis. In the municipalities and regions, they also have engineers and can, upon request, ask for the assistance of the CBC. Do not forget that the object of the CFP is to design construction studies not only for schools but also for hospitals and for court buildings. With regard to the '99 audits to which you referred, the then School Buildings Agency, the so-called 'CIS', because the three agencies were not merged to build the CIS, had asked for an audit to be carried out on the company's printed file issued by the CIS. I will inform you about this because I have not received an answer yet. However, these checks were sent to the municipalities concerned in any case. I would just like to stress that it has always been the exclusive competence to draw up the dangerous or risk-removal protocols at the time, and that responsibility has been passed on to the relevant building services, the HRM. You said something about the European Union. You're wrong. It is the European Union that is pushing Greece, also to arm the country for the huge issues of climate change that we have and for flooding projects. You ask what the government does. Here I will remind you that two weeks ago we and the Minister of Finance, Mr. Stavoura, signed a 150 million loan for flooding projects, which will provide a solution to this issue and protect a population that is more than half a million in Athens, Thessaloniki and the Peloponnese, and we will continue to give enough money to all five major motorways and all concessionaires to provide money for the projects themselves. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But what we need to do - and here is the issue, and here is the interesting dialogue - is that we came and gave money as a state after flooding and after we experienced the tragedy in Attica. So now we are in the process of discussing the European Investment Bank. You see Europe, Mr Colleague, is not bad at all, because it also gives money. The PPP is not enough to build new schools and any new school is done after European funds are contributed. Indeed, yesterday one of the issues we discussed with the representatives of the European Investment Bank is to get a loan. Let me remind you that these loans are twenty-five years at the lowest interest rate. They are, in fact, no loans, because the European Investment Bank is a bank of twenty-eight Member States that comes and in fact'subsidises', if you want major infrastructure projects and told us that it wants to help, so that we make a more general design for earthquake protection, so that we do not come back as we arrived on 19 August and do post-equal control. There are procedures. I think that our country is a country that has an earthquake experience. We've shown readiness in the past. With all due respect to the Communist Party, I do not think we should be at risk when the figures I mentioned to you are those, that is, when less than 1% were damaged. I think this shows that despite the old age of school units we are in a phase where the situation is not as tragic as you describe it. Yes, schools and school buildings are old, yes, we have to make a plan to build new schools - and that is what we do with Europe's money - and, yes, we are here to discuss with the European institutions and European institutions, how we can get into projects either on loans or on other European resources, to check the inappropriateness of school buildings and not just on hospitals and ministries. Let me tell you something else that shows the government's readiness, if you like, when the earthquake took place on 19 August. Officials from the Treasury building, here in the Constitution, right, people had left the building and didn't want to come back. Immediately a KICYP crewer went within two hours, checked the building, assured them of the suitability of the building and entered. I therefore think that in particular on the issue of earthquakes and the treatment of the CIS, what you are saying has an exaggeration element. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-11-S1-commons.u41	With the consent of the House at 12.02 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 14 October 2019 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
