ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate on topical and urgent questions, I would like to read a letter from Mr George Amyras addressed to the President of Parliament. 'Mr President, I would like to inform you that I am presenting my resignation from the position of MP in the second Athens Region. I do not intend to make use of the amendment that has been voted on to remove the Member's incompatibility with the status of candidate. Thank you very much for the cooperation we have had. Yours sincerely, George Amyras.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u2	Mr Amyras is coming back to the House, and I welcome Mrs Lymperakis - whose oath will be taken by a political oath and which will precede the topical questions. Mrs. Libertyraki, you're invited to come and give the nominated oath. [[This is where Mrs Antigone Lymmerakis comes in and gives the following oath:]] "I assure my honor and conscience that I will be faithful in my homeland and democratic city, I will obey the Constitution and the laws, and I will be conscientiously fulfilling my duties."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u3	Good luck! Have a good comeback! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 12 April 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP I Thessaloniki by the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Protection of citizens and borrowers from the abuse of legal offices as tax collectors". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 479/8-4-2019 is a timely question by MP I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Changes in PPC tariffs'. 3. The Question No 470/2-24-2019 by Independent Member of the European Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: ‘Finally, social pharmacies, grocery stores and piles since 2020’. 4. The Question No 468/2-24-2019 by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition, Antonio Balomenakis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of the need to regulate franchising. 5. The question asked by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios DRC to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "A call for a post by Professor of Shiro-Belissomy at Democritus University of Thrace". 6. Under No 279/15-1-2019, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the Transport Equivalent". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 5080/28-1-2019 by Mr Demetrios Kyriazides to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "with regard to the adoption of the necessary ministerial decisions to fill the organic positions of priests".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, let me inform you of the timely questions which will not be discussed, and for which there is also a letter from the Secretariat of the Government. The first, with number 478/8-4-2019, topical question of the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The time of the coastal races counts vice versa..." will not be discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The fourth under number 443/26-32019 topical question by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Compensatory benefits for the regions in the administrative limits of which the reservoirs/frames of Mornos and Evnos are located, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Member. The eighth Question No 447/26-3-2019 by Mr Nicholas Karathanasopoulos on "The Special School of Zakynthos and the late completion of the new building" will not be discussed due to a blockade by Mr. The second under number 472/3-24-2019 topical question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The opening of nine licensed RTD professionals based in the former Municipality of Henry Achaias and the inhabitants of the region" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The first, with number 477/8-4-2019, top-stage question of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Expansion of programmes of a public nature", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Konstantinos Barkas because of a workload. The third, with number 483/9-4-2019, topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Efis Ahtsoglou, on the subject: "Dangerous working conditions of the working distributors", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Minister Ahtsoglou, due to a government mission in Thessaloniki. Eleventh, under number 330/4-2-2019, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Evia Nikolaos Michou, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Continuance of persecution of Greek minority members in Albania", will not be discussed. The twelfth under number 284/21-1-2019 is a timely question for the second question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “Albanian street development of Great Albania”, will not be discussed. The thirteenth, with number 280/17-1-2019, is a topical question for the second of the Piraios I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The co-management of the Aegean is being promoted by the Government", will not be discussed. The fourteenth, with number 260/9-1-2019, topical question for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways”, will not be discussed. The fifteenth, with number 261/9-1-2019, is a topical question for the second question of the MEP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. Finally, the sixteenth question under number 263/9-1-2019 from the second question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the state of Skopje" will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, how many timely questions will not be discussed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u6	They'll be discussed six. 12 of them will not be discussed, of which four are due to a blockade of colleagues. For the remaining five, which are from Members of the Golden Dawn, you know that the ministers and the other four will not be discussed as a result of a failure by the Ministers. Mr Colleague, we are relatively well today. There will be a little more discussion. So now the seventh question of the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Bukouros, will be discussed with the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: 'The harmonisation of the age of admission to Creative Employment Centres for Children'. This timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Theanos Fotou. Mr Buquoir, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, you know too and we all know that the issue of pre-school education is a very important issue. You are also aware that we have the new Law 4521 of 2018, which introduces compulsory pre-school education from the age of four and not the five years that existed to date. This certainly increases the needs. In fact, this year's new ministerial decision includes all the municipalities in the country. Half of them had joined last year's ministerial decision. Of course, we also have protests and answers from many municipalities that they do not have the building infrastructure in order to accommodate pre-school children from the age of four. That, of course, is not your responsibility. I asked you today the question - because this is a request from many parents in my area - to change the age limit for infants to the JAPDs, since of course the problems arising from such a change are also addressed. Because in CSR we know they are watching and employing children in a larger range of ages, kindergarten and primary schools, and that is an important issue. However, I would like to remind you that in 2009 the age of integration in creative employment centres had changed again, and since the six years in which it was then in five years, because compulsory pre-school education had been introduced that year over five years. It is a sensitive issue, which is of great concern to many parents, who will be able to take their children to kindergartens if the issues of building infrastructure and staff are resolved, but they will not be able to get their children to CDIs and mothers to join the "House and Family Life Harmonization Programme". I would like to know what you are thinking about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u8	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Your Honor. This is a good question, because the CIDs really count for nineteen years of operation. It is time to appreciate their work and to see it in the new foundations that are now created through evolution and science, as well as knowledge and creative employment. I would therefore say in advance, Mr Papoutsis, that we are very interested in considering the possibility of coexistence of four-year-olds with premarital children in pre-publishment, twelve-year-olds. In other words, if such a story is to be considered very seriously, it is about the coexistence of children very young, four years old, and therefore the departments will not be single anymore, from four to twelve years old, because the children of twelve are in the pre-publishment. That is what we need to study. However, as you have rightly said, the first year of application of the two-year compulsory education, which was four years old, has not even been completed. Firstly, this time we must appreciate him. Secondly, as you said again quite rightly, we will extend to all the municipalities in the country, and today it is only a hundred and eighty-one municipalities in the country that are four-year-olds, and we will extend them throughout the country. However, I would remind you of something, Mr Papoutsis, that you seem not to remember. What do you mean? As you know, Mr Avramopoulos, Minister for Health and Welfare in 2006, with Mr.3518 of your own New Democracy government, introduced compulsory education for the first time in five years, in 2006. It took three years, Mr Papoutsis, and in 2009 five years in the CDIs. So does your rush not benefit children, since your own party, Mr. Salmas signed in 2009, three years later, the children, five years old, enter the CIDs? I imagine they studied it and said it was possible to coexist with the five-year-olds by the twelve-year-olds. I would therefore say that we also need patience and a great deal of scientific study on how to proceed, whether we move, on this step. However, I would like to tell you in advance that you are giving us the opportunity today to assess the "Family and Professional Harmonization Programme". Senate, we received, as we know, seventy-seven thousand nine hundred twenty children free of charge in nursery schools in 2014-2015. We reached it at a hundred and twenty - seven thousand, in four very difficult years, or forty - seven thousand additional children, we put free in baby - sitters. And that's why we did it? Because of the "Holiday Harmonization of Family and Occupational Life" programme, children of the unemployed mother and poor mother were excluded from you. And so, the problem arises, the children stay out of daycare. There's a lot of fuss from your favorite media every year. There are also lymphs: "We will give 1,800 euros and the children will get into the baby." You say it while you know that the problem is that there is an unequal distribution. Other places have, but they don't have, and that's why the kids stay out. Also, as you know, in 2015, we received 172 million, which you had paid for this action - that is, all together - with national resources, 12 million. Today, national resources are 236 million and the ESRB is only 50 million when your period was 172 million. So, we took the story, called "family stations" and "CIDS" on us. Because, indeed, the child is our priority, our care. Indeed, we increased the budgets for the child, within a very difficult four years, from 822 million to 1 billion 407 million and child poverty from 23% in the years of prosperity - where one in four children was poor, in good times - we dropped it in two years, 2015-2016, two units down. I am not inclined, poverty is a terrible thing, especially for children, but we are taking great steps and that is not to underestimate. Mr President, I have abused time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u10	I leave you to be able to answer and you will be exactly in your time in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. So, with regard to the CIDs, we have allowed forty-five thousand sixty-three children to go to CIDs for free this year and another three thousand seven hundred CIDs to go to CIPs - ACE, which is a very important institution, very different from CIPs. The CAPs are different. They were implemented for forty-four thousand fourscore seventy-five children in CSR, while we had given more voucher. That was a subject which we very much care about how it works. What do I mean, Mr President, when I say 'how it works'? You know the problem better than I do. How should we organise the CPD, so that it is not just that the child goes there and sits there and spends its time, but indeed, creatively work and learn skills, learn things, foreign languages, sport, do dances, gymnastics, and artistics, so that the child is not just there an hour that is wasted, but learn things. So the whole institution must be reorganised.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u12	Good. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor. You'll have a little tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, it is necessary and I thank you in advance. I asked a very specific question, and we should focus on it, because parents are waiting. The Minister took the opportunity, believing she would convince us of the benefits of her policy. It's a respectable thing to say, but you know it's from what perspective you see things. You said, Minister, to start from general, that you gave free access to children's stations to a hundred and seven thousand children a year, while the New Democracy governments gave seventy-five children. Is the four-year average twenty-seven thousand children, or is it the last year? Because I remember that the first, second and third years of your administration you were left with fifty thousand and sixty thousand children, outside childcare stations. You tell us about the poverty figures, and so on, but international organisations have another impression. Read the 2016 and 2017 OECD report on child poverty in Greece and, more generally, on poverty, see the disappearance of the middle class, which all international organisations confess that it has happened for your days because of the disinvestment and over-taxation that you have made Greece a champion of increased taxes. That, Minister, is not what the New Democracy says, but the international organizations. You come here - good what's going on for the child, I didn't say no, and if I asked the question, I asked it to solve a problem, and you are the one responsible for solving it - and you tell us what happened 16 years ago on Avramopoulos in 2006. Then he was late to harmonize the age of three years. But just because you have that experience and those conclusions about the change, you had to do it right away. If for every same problem we delay the same, we never go any further. What don't you understand? From that point on, I didn't finally understand, do you change the age of entry into the children's CIDs because they're four years old and the CIDs host children 11 and 12 years old? I mean, how huge is it that there's a difference between the five-year-olds and not four-year-olds? And in any case, the partitioning, which you have said, can be a solution. But allow them too, Minister. To harmonize working and family life, therefore, the New Democracy is clear, it is clear. It is the first measure, the first commitment of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for 1,800 euros to every child to have a place in children's stations and kindergartens, without conditions, for all children born in Greece. And a clearer measure than that, rather than reading the statistics and figures that this year are a hundred twenty-seven thousand, last year it was seventy-five, and the other could be sixty-five thousand, a clearer and more universal measure than every child's access to pre-school compulsory education, there is no, Minister. At least, Mr Tsipras said here, by addressing Mr Mitsotakis, that all the EUR 2 000 that you say about each birth is a good measure. Can you not say that the EUR 180 vouchers for all children are a measure in the right direction? Can I tell you something else, Minister? I am not in favour of benefits in these matters. I am in favour of institutional measures. Because all these issues touch the face of major problems, such as demographics. With institutional measures we must give the preconditions, Minister. Do you know why I'm telling you this? You may remark here that you are giving some benefits above, but on SYRIZA days, 2017 and 2018, Minister, we have the worst demographic performance, a demographic ruin, after World War II. Do you know that we are missing about forty thousand people a year, according to ELSTAT's figures, for the years 2017 and 2018, that deaths are forty thousand more than births? Doesn't that indicate anything about your policies? The statistics and figures can be read as we wish. The demographic collapse, however, cannot be ignored, Minister, nor can I nor any of you. I expect you at least to answer that. If we're going to make a general policy, we can do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u14	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u15	Your Honor, you have said too many things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u16	You more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u17	I'll answer first - first of all this joke about the 1,800 in every child you promised. When we give 2,375 euros to children and 2,945 with feeding and they don't find a place...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u18	Not everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u19	When we give 2,375 to 2,945 euros a year and find no position, it is ridiculous to say that you will give 1,800 and will find a place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u20	I didn't make characterizations!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u21	It's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u22	Laughs are your claims!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u23	What do we do now? Are we fighting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u24	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u25	You said, Mr Bukkoro, what you wanted, the Minister will say what he wants and those listening to you will draw their conclusions. Please, take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u26	One hundred and twenty - seven thousand children this year, Mr. President, last year we put a hundred eighteen thousand, last year we put hundred thousand. Don't give up on that. The numbers are overwhelming. Third, did we destroy her? Do you know what we received in 2015 with the OECD data? A million fellow citizens moved us from the middle class to the lower class. Read the numbers. Did SYRIZA do that? And all you say about child poverty and so on, it's a shame! And what you say about fertility is a disgrace too! For the infertileness of the House, you have come to a joint conclusion. Read it. Read the demographics about both infertileness. And because you're doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u27	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Buquoir, they're not written in the Minutes. You're just stalling. That's what you're doing now. They're not writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u29	And because you're also making a mistake, very small increase in birth rate, we've had over the past three years. Little - I'm very sorry - but we've had an increase...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u30	Are you sorry we had an increase?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u31	I'm so sorry she was small, Mr. President. It was very small, but it was an increase. Such a misunderstanding of the Greek people, I've never heard! Now let's go see some...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, it has spoken a total of twelve minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u33	What's gonna happen? Let me stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Buquoir, I've left you more than that. The Minister's time hasn't expired yet. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u35	Listen, Mr. Bukoro. There's the potentially full-day kindergarten. If, Mr President, five parents in one section, ten parents in the two sections and fifteen parents in the three sections are asking for the full-day application, then it is extended until 16.00. What do you think? In the best interests of the child, will we take it from 7 a.m. to school, will it end at 16 a.m., and then we'll take it to S.H.I.E.L.D.? Is that in the best interests of the four-year-old? [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I say, shall we do a scientific committee? See where we are?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u36	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u37	That's right, Mr. President. It's not a good field for the kid to become this spicula. So, as for all things, do you want us to consult all the parties in this House? How many hours should a four-year-old be in kindergarten and then the CIA? So we know exactly what is this is about children. Equality means it's the rights of the child first. First the kid!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u38	Good. Here is the second question by number 473/4-2019 of the second question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The contradictory and ineffective policy of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food (YPAF) puts at risk the new growing season in the areas of the former Agulinitsa - Mouras lakes". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have been in the same work of viewers for the last four years that you have been ruling and regulating the issue of granting the areas of the former Agulinitsa and Murias lakes to farmers at and including five at a time. But this year you overreacted. I feel that you have no knowledge of what is cultivated in each region and when it is cultivated. I had to ask this timely question last week. And it is a matter of urgency, because after your fraudulent trips, that is to say Mr Arachovitis' announcement in October, in the regions, you will not give an extension this year to the PHS 95/75 as you have given in previous years, but you will apply Law 4061/2012, you have noted after repeated meetings with institutions and farmers that you have not done any preparation to implement the law and that you will grant an extension with certain arrangements. So we arrived at tenths of a month and should have poured on corn, groundnuts, peanuts, peanuts, industrial tomato, and risk losing subsidies for farmers if they do not grow. And yesterday you reminded us that it takes some summer and on 17.22' you posted a press release saying that you will now give an extension at the request of the HSPE, but the legislation will soon come to Parliament to deal with the questions of young people - who have no rights to date - from the leftovers. So the question, and it needs to be answered today, is this: The people who have entered and cultivate, because they cannot wait, and the young people, who are waiting, may know from tomorrow in a document from your own to the regions that legislation is coming on Monday in the bill of the Ministry of Finance, which gives an extension to the old and settles the issue of the liquidation of the beneficiaries of pensioners who are dying and establishes the procedure for granting the remnants to young farmers. Is that what you can do today? Because if you do not do this today, I would inform you that, in fact, the new ones - because the old ones know what their parcels are - will not be able to grow. So that is the question, Minister, and we are waiting for a very clear answer, since for five years you have not been able to give it right. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after being informed about the history of the building and how the House organises forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th Elementary School of Nea Philadelphia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honourable Member, you mentioned in your question that we have not implemented the law for five years in recent years. But let's put things in place. The relevant law, L.4061/2012, regulates the distribution and use of property under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Rural Development, to the unemployed, to professional farmers. It's a good law. In 2013 it did not apply. In 2014, it did not apply, it was extended. In 2015 it did not apply. In 2016, it did not apply to the criteria it refers to. In 2017, it was not implemented again by extension. Three actions were taken in 2018. On 20 September a press release from the Minister's office that the law will be implemented. On 8 October 2018, the Minister’s circular will apply Article 7 to all regions. Third action on 30-10-2018, a new Minister's document to the regions according to which directives were given, clarifications on the application of the law. In which implementation of the law is carried out, I am appalled, Mr Papoutsis, that is why the regions are responsible for this. Therefore, three actions in time before the concession expires, with the exception of the meetings. And came the Committee of the Regions twenty days ago, which says: "Despite the effort made by the relevant departments of the regions, it is not expected that the procedure for the granting of the use of public agricultural land will be completed by the end of April 2019, in accordance with the provisions of Law 4061/2012 so that they can be exploited from this year's growing season. For the above reasons, it is necessary to extend until 31 October 2019 the validity of the decisions of the regional authorities’. It is the Union of the Regions, which expresses all regions, Mr Papoutsis. The regions, according to the law, are the sole responsibility for implementation. The extension was therefore a given one and is given up to 30 October 2019. Now, with regard to the wording, for what you said, I shall speak in my dentistry, about the content of the extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u43	I have here in the file the minutes of my current questions to the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Apostle, in 2015 in October 2016, in 2017, and he said that the law is always good, as you said, Mr. 4061/2012, but we will improve it, and we will implement it next year and this year we will be giving an extension. And it's always been said four years by your government. So incompetent? And you have received proposals from both young farmers and from the beaches and from the rest of the institutions. I've done too. So you have not succeeded in implementing the law. You remember in October, as you said, and you took out a circular that the law will be implemented this year, without any correction. The regions have told you that you have referred to the HNP document for 20 days, as there are a number of technical problems. For example, the areas of Agulinitsa, in order to divide into 100 acres, to have a share of each farmer’s land, want the spatial elements to do so. He needs a pre-process. Your services and regions did not have time to do so, after you remembered in October. It was natural, then, to go on an extension. Therefore, you should have informed the farmers who have the parcels based on the PHS 95/75 in good time to prepare them. Why, you know - you're from a rural area and you know it, I say it about Mrs. Fotio - you don't sow it like that, you remembered it this morning and you walked into the field. He needs a pre-process. So farmers should have been prepared. I told you that some of the products cultivated are very early, that is to say, at the beginning of April, the groundnuts, peanuts are planted. The fields should have been prepared for corn, industrial tomato, cloves and so on. Now you're saying you're bringing her on, and I'm guessing you're bringing her next week. I told you that there was a bill from the Ministry of Finance, and I happen to be rapporteur, and I tell you in advance that I will support it, but you must also do the transitional arrangement, which says that until Law 4061 applies to the criteria either we apply its criteria for young people who have no right or we find something else. You have no room for that, Minister, to delay this one day, seeing that today it is April 11. Therefore, my proposal to be a creative debate is, today, the Ministry to send the document in official form, not by a press release, as you did last night to the regions, and to say: apply the PHS to those who have a legal right, that is, they are professional farmers on the basis of your previous decisions, and the procedure for young people is expected in the next week. We must do this today, because - I repeat - we risk losing part of the growing season. I am afraid of myself, as I live in a rural area, that these young people who will get new parcels will not be able to prepare themselves in order to be in time for the crops. Not to invite them to put autumn crops. Now they're springtime. Thank you, Mr President, we are waiting for an answer on the substance, Mr Minister, so that we do not play a ball with responsibilities. The reality now is that he wants answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u44	The Undersecretary, Mr. Kokalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. The first official and serious attempt to implement the law was made in September 2018. 'Cause I say that, 'cause the writings stay. Circulars have been deported to the regions, regardless of the orals, with the words of yours, mys, Mr. Apostle. The first serious effort was made in September 2018. You said the district should make a spatial partition. Other regions why did they do and are ready? Have you ever wondered? Why was Thessaly Region ready? Other regions were not. However, the extension could not be for two regions alone and for the rest it would not be. So we find that the necessarily irresponsible body is the region. The regions come and raise our hands and say 'we can't make it'. We sent the relevant documents on a time basis in September 2018, so the extension is also given within the days reasonablely - the Minister's office is responsible for tabling the amendment, each in accordance with its responsibilities for the date of deposit, Mr Koutsouko, to say things as they stand - next week will be submitted and extended until October 31, 2019. However, as there will also be indisposed areas, regional authorities will be able to give these indisposed areas to main-professional farmers in accordance with Law 4061/2012 and we call on the regions now to start to implement the law and apply it as from 1 January 2019, Mr Koutsouko. In conclusion, next week, according to information from the Minister's office to me, we will also have the legislation to resolve the issues you mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. Before we move on to the next question, I would like to announce the following Members' permits. MEP Mr Nikolaos Dendias asks for a short-day absence abroad from Thursday 11 April 2019 until Friday 12 April 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u47	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP Maria Antonio seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from Monday 15 April 2019 until Tuesday 16 April 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u48	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP Mr Theodoros Fortsakis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from Friday 19 April 2019 until Monday 23 April 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u49	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Congressman Christos Staikoras is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from Thursday 11 April 2019 until Friday 12 April 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u50	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from Thursday 11 April 2019 until Friday 14 April 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u51	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 30 January 2019, Thursday 31 January 2019, Friday 1 February 2019, Monday 4 February 2019, Tuesday 5 February 2019, Wednesday 6 February 2019, Thursday 7 February 2019, Friday 8 February 2019 and Monday 11 February 2019 have been distributed and the House is asked if it validates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u52	The minutes of Wednesday 30 January 2019, Thursday 31 January 2019, Friday 1 February 2019, Monday 4 February 2019, Tuesday 5 February 2019, Wednesday 6 February 2019, Thursday 7 February 2019, Friday 8 February 2019 and Monday 11 February 2019 were validated. We shall now proceed to the questions which the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer, Mr Christos Spirtzis. The fifth question under number 446/26-3-2019 is then discussed with regard to the second question of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and Members of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the "drug phenomena and disasters in the Dokos - Saint Heleousa - Liane Ammos - Outside Panagitsa in Chalkida". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. More than two months have passed, now we have reached the quarter when the question could have been discussed and been close to the event, close to these phenomena that have affected the world in the region of the Municipality of Halkidion. In other words, there have been postponements. That is what I say, Mr President. On this occasion, and to the Minister in question and to the Ministers present, I strongly urge them to come and answer the questions. This issue has also been addressed by the Conference of Presidents on several occasions, but it is not the ministers responsible for it. I say this in general, but I am not saying it for those who are present at the moment. For two and a half months now, there have been flooding problems in the Dokos, Agia Eleousa, Lianni Ammos, Outside Panagitsa of the Municipality of Halkidion, while the residents have been warning against the disasters that would come, in order to take action to deal with the problem at the time. The water level, of course, gradually rose, flooded houses, basements, yards, crops, micro-enterprises in the area. Many residents were forced to move, leave their homes. Others each day faced a Golgotha, to have access to their work, leaving the house or, respectively, returning home and many were driven to despair, seeing the disasters that occurred. The burden of the area, with its flooding phenomena, also posed and posed a danger to public health. It is dangerous, in other words, when the boths have been flooded and the waste water has been scattered throughout the region, threatening public health, as I have said. Indeed, according to the inhabitants, and also to the situation created there, the pumping of the sewer network in the area has flooded, so that it cannot be channelled towards biological cleaning, either the sewage or the sewage system's water. Of course, the people in the region expressed their anxiety, that is to say, also with the melting of snow from the mountains, these phenomena will be intensified. The questions are as follows: First, what measures will the Government, the Ministry, take to plan the implementation of the necessary infrastructure and flooding projects financed by the State budget without any charge on the part of the people? Secondly, all projects must be carried out on the basis of the protection of life, but above all, of the health and property of the inhabitants. Of course, we need to remove the waters that are ponding by, for example, carrying out sprays in the wider area there. And of course, you need to compensate the affected, as well as to exempt them, if necessary, from taxes such as HISPIA, etc. to be subject to residents. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lambroulis, my dear colleague, I am here to answer you, even though the essence of what you have said is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is only the compensation of the buildings affected. On 25 February, the Mayor of Halkidiki sent an urgent letter to the Ministries of Infrastructure and Transport, the environment, the interior and the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, to inform us of the problems created by the severe weather phenomena and asked the ministries to send scales so that we can assist the services of the Municipality of Halkidion to find the causes of the problems and the whole of this phenomenon presented to the region. We responded to this and sent a step of specialist scientists. I would like to say that the studies, the actions required, the powers that exist in these cases belong to the Municipality of Halkidone and the region. Obviously, we are present to give help. We also notified this letter to the Directorate-General for Natural Disasters to know and be ready for the incident and to assist our affected citizens. On March 7th, accompanied by the step by the mayor of Chalkida and other members of the municipality visited the areas of Dokos, Agia Eleousa Lianis Ammos and the others. Autopsy took place. As far as possible, the causes of the problem have been identified. The possibility of temporary discharge of pond water and the possibility of a definitive solution to the problem has been given. In particular, the conclusions of autopsy to know them are as follows: In the areas of Dokos, Agia Eleousa and Liani Ammos there were many flooded houses and uncovered areas. Even today, hydrogen is intense, which confirms that the phenomenon is under way. That is to say, the cycle of the phenomenon is not complete. It was also noted that there is water supply under the houses with water in many cases to expel into the home yards and in many places to burrow. Besides, in the area of Dokos there is a flooded area of about ninety acres where the water level reaches two meters. On this land, the Municipality of Chalkida installed a pump band with a capacity of 100 cubic metres an hour. which has to be operated uninterruptedly to empty an area. Nevertheless, drainage and water level continue to rise significantly. The affected areas have clear characteristics which are vulnerable to flooding, in the sense of the high water supply horizon and the inability to drain. Large parts of the area are within a town plan, without the basic infrastructure that those areas that have joined the town plan should have, so the consequences and geological risks you mentioned are strong. This year's landings of the sources of St. Eleusa are at unusually high levels due to high this year's rainfall. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I am not going to use my dentistry. However, the seasonal floods are well-known and the possible solutions that are being considered are as follows: First, the assessment of the scientists in our stadium for the long-term resolution of the problem requires a serious planning so that we do not relive it. A series of research and studies should be carried out where time has come to draw up their procedures to determine the precise measures and the projects required. That doesn't belong to us. It belongs to the region or to the Special Secretariat for Water. It's a hydrogeological phenomenon. As far as the additional recipients are concerned, we need to see additional recipients, the opening of passages to the sea and the adjacent rivers then, the creation of permanent landfill areas. Therefore, some passages must be expropriated to make these works as a concentration of water and their deforestation into the sea. We need to revise the town plan in the region. The investigation of possible solutions should obviously result from a thorough investigation and study in order to optimise technical, economic and environmental decisions, The initiative of these actions, however, does not, unfortunately, belong to us. It belongs to the Municipality of Chalkida, belongs to the region. They're their work of responsibility. We are also at the disposal of the municipality and the region to help. But, so far, I would like to inform you that we have not accepted a request either for the demarcation of the affected area by the local authorities or a table of self-government, so that we can help the citizens affected in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to the Minister. Look, this is the permanent answer, without being reproached or clipped at what you said. But now see what's going on. Members are coming and asking questions. The Ministers are coming in response and declare unresponsible. But look, the state has a follow-up. Isn't that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u58	That's right, it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u59	The state has a continuity. The state therefore has a sequence of institutions, as you call it, local administration I, grade II and state. Because, if you'll excuse me very much, the municipalities don't work independently...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u60	Don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u61	Excuse me very much, they've changed the data and you know it, just like the local administration framework now. Municipalities, regions and the state unite as a thread in all their decisions and all their functions. And here, on the occasion of this issue that has arisen in Chalkida, the enormous responsibilities, political responsibilities, mayors and regional authorities and, by extension, governments have emerged. So, where the municipality or the region does not care, why, for example, not interfere with the state by pushing in the direction of implementation and relief, if you like, of the problems that exacerbate or make life difficult for residents? Here is a fine excuse, if you like, and a ping pong game about what responsibilities are in the region, what responsibilities are in the municipality, what responsibilities are in the respective ministry, in the respective government. That's how it turns out to be what? For example, this subject we are discussing today is not today, it is timely. Alas. It's a chronic problem, indeed. There are time-consuming responsibilities here. We're talking about it in the question. The responsibilities of municipal authorities, regional authorities and governments which have not been involved in the problem are time-consuming. And now, look, there's something else going on. Projects necessary to alleviate people's needs, even at the level of funding - and you know that very well - such projects may not be eligible, in the sense of being included in a financial programme. We have a lot of examples. Others and others are spreading millions through the NSRF, through funding other programmes, in order to dive into business and investment projects that they themselves are interested in implementing and exploiting to profit and the people are condemning. Works like anti-military, anti-nuclear protection, anti-Semitism protection and go by and say. This results in people living, of course, in such phenomena. And see these issues have to do, beyond the problems of the people's lives, that is, the problems after these flooding phenomena, which are also regularly - are the specificity of the subsoil, they erupt water, so to speak, it is the area over there, known for too many years - which are created at regular intervals, through these flooding phenomena, serious public health issues. Here too, health services must ensure, not only in the area of essential drainage works and others - which must be done, but, above all, public health structures must work towards defending people's health from the problems that exist. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u62	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u63	I just want to say one sentence. I won't argue with Mr. Lambroulis. However, I must refer to the following: obviously the state has a lot to do. So from the previous governments, what the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has committed itself. This does not mean, however, that the Minister or the government can circumvent the procedures and responsibilities of local government. We are particularly sensitive here, we have proved that. In other words, we cannot go into a logic 'the central state, the central government', without respecting the procedures and the local authorities. Therefore, local authorities must assume their responsibility too. So you cannot go to an area where no energy has been made either by the municipality or by the region and say 'I come as a central state and do so and let it not be my responsibility'. The second is that we have never refused - and we have taken tests on this - when a municipality cannot respond or a region cannot respond either to a study or to a project's implementation level, with a programme agreement to implement it by a central body and, in particular, the Ministry of Infrastructure. I see Mr. Synchronakis. This is done in Crete now in a series of projects where we had natural disasters. This is also done in their preparation and registration, but also in their implementation. I will therefore agree with you that there must be a special one - at last - concern in this area, there must be a review of the town plan - which you understand what that means and what responsibilities those who have made this town plan, without having the necessary infrastructure, studies - so that we do not have such phenomena. So, we're at the disposal of local government, we're ready to help her work when she's ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u64	We move to the sixth, with number 434/22-32019, a timely question for a second question by MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The supply of seven hundred fifty buses for urban transport - three hundred fifty for Thessaloniki". Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, let us begin with a real situation, with the real picture that is currently in the city of Thessaloniki. Buses start from the starting point and never reach the end, are immovable in the middle of the route, passengers, citizens, but also visitors are suffering too much. There are buses that are not in good condition in their interiors, with shattered seats, buses articulated, of which the blowers, precisely because of the old age, when it rains, get water. According to a post of "ThessNews", Minister, which came out about a month and a half ago and took place on the specific question that I submitted to you, the hopes of the president of OSH for buses fall into the gap in May 2019. Obviously, I understand that this delay is due to the lengthy procurement procedures of such a large number of state-of-the-art buses. In 2020 and since the competition is smooth and since everything goes well, the city of Thessaloniki hopes to have the first piece, the first numbers of the buses that will actually be able to facilitate the lives of citizens. It has not been found, Minister, nor a government that has not promised in this city - nor one, of which you are obviously one - that has not talked about the possibilities of this city. However, no government can get through the citizen of Thessaloniki the bitter discovery that the city of lost opportunities remains. Minister, because exactly and precisely according to yesterday's papers which came to the press, the first part of my question may have been answered from yesterday and which was to set us the exact timetable for the completion of the competition, I will insist on the second part of the question, which is: What is the actions of the OSH Ministry and administration to improve the conditions of citizens' movement until the new buses in the city come? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u66	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Saridis, first of all, the "day zero" for the urban transport of Thessaloniki is not in February 2015, which this government took over. The "day zero" goes far back, in 1949, which became OSTH, which existed, that is, the creation of a form that essentially reproduced and "treated" and financed and donated the paradigm of a gray era, which we received in 2015 with a multitude of sins. One of the features, since you asked, is the renewal of the bus fleet. So let me say that at the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Organisation there had to be EUR 48,8 million in line with the ‘since’ contract that existed for the renewal of the bus fleet and there were EUR 614. To say again: 48.8 million had to exist and there were 614 euros. For insurance contributions a few days ago, the former president of OSH was sentenced to four years on parole. He owed about 24 million euros to the workers' insurance funds. And obviously, if we did not go to another logic, to a logic of statization or deprivation, as we say, because it is not just state-run, the local authorities are involved, at last, in the urban transport of Thessaloniki, simply Thessaloniki will not have buses. He wouldn't have the only means to be able to move. Or we should, as the previous governments did, give more than EUR 150 million to OSH and its administration in order to continue the party that was continuing. So obviously we will find and meet the OSTH administration, which clears the organization and operates at the same time, problems. Obviously, the buses that the body should have, you know, have been sold for scrap. In other words, 12-year-old buses have been sold for eight hundred and a thousand euros, many buses. On the substance, we found a hundred and fifty buses able to operate, the rest had to be maintained. This had created a very large deficit both in buses and in the critical specialities that had to exist in the organisation, in other words drivers and craftsmen, so that they could function. What have we done? The first and most important thing is that we found money that was not there, not a euro, not a ESRB, but neither was the Agency due to its reserves, for the purchase of new buses. In the next few days, the procedure is being completed - there are some bureaucratic procedures - by the managing authority so that we can get the competition out. What is the innovation of this contest? It is that buses will also be bought within their market, in their supply, by the supply of spare parts and heavy maintenance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u68	All right, the rest in dentistry. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, the Minister did not answer my question, because you will allow me to say it - you have cut it, you have stopped it. My question is what will the Ministry and the OSTH administration do from now on to better improve the movement and until we get these buses for the city. But I'm staying at another point. Clearly, Minister, it is your responsibility - I do not see - to look for the responsibilities that exist for OSH being driven where he was led. And clearly it is your responsibility to send them to court, although since these people have been misled by the responsibility they held. But it is also your responsibility, Minister, and the government's responsibility is to improve the movement of passengers, which has nothing to do with it all these years. There's a peculiarity in Thessaloniki, Minister. It's not like Athens is. Athens has subway, has tram, has other means of transport. The Thessaloniki of more than one million inhabitants in the city, Thessaloniki with more than a hundred thousand students, the only means of transport currently has OSTH, has nothing else. And let's not get into the logic of using cabs as a means of transport. Where we have been, in the economic situation that the Greek people are currently experiencing, there is not much people who can travel by taxi. Please, Minister, I will insist on this part of my question, namely what you will do, as long as you are government, until elections are called, to improve the movement of passengers to Thessaloniki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u70	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Saridis, I don't claim to be a magician. Neither I nor SYRIZA nor the OSTH administration. I'm telling you, we'd better build a new OSTH from the beginning than the one we inherited in connection with OSTH. One is that. Secondly, why doesn't Thessaloniki have a subway? He should have had so many years that the project was stuck. And now that a station is running out, there's the opposition that blames us for having, he says, mushrooms in the ticket offices that are in another play. Why doesn't he have a subway? Why isn't there a tram? Historically, why doesn't Thessaloniki have a tram? Who ripped out the tram lines and built OSTH to be in this mess? Why doesn't he have a suburban while he has a railroad? The people of Thessaloniki know this very well. We first of all say that we have moved to a partial reorganisation - we will go to holistic work - of urban transport for the simple reason: You will have seen with your eyes that the frequency of buses in the city centre is every two minutes, it is one thing behind the other and with known problems in the city's traffic burden. We have to go to another logic. The OSTH administration, as far as I know, seeks even used buses. Some of the ruptures that the former government had made in relation to the CBELs, to take over by OSTH and urban lines, even outside the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, are returning to the CCELs of Thessaloniki. From there we save in the first phase eighteen buses and fifty-seven drivers in order to captulate the routes to the areas that OSH does not have a responsibility to serve. The second thing we do is to finish the metro at last, so that very soon - in about a year and a half - we can give Thessaloniki from the railway station to Kalamaria and start work on extending to Western Thessaloniki. The third, which is the most important of all, is that we have found money to modernise the bus fleet and to have electric buses and gas, so that there is no other mess that we see with pollution due to urban buses in the city. There's nothing else we can do. If you have anything to suggest, suggest that we adopt it, we do not have any dogmatism. So the three basic principles are correct and holistic planning for the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, for the whole city, obviously. The second is to modernise the fleet. The third is to take - and there has been a legislative amendment - people in critical specialities so that the Agency can function properly. Because if we had a thousand buses today, we would not be able to operate them, we would not have any drivers or conservators and craftsmen. These are our concerns and obviously end the metro so that the problem of urban transport can be completely and definitively restructured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u72	We continue with the ninth with the ninth No 445/26-3-2019 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Hercules of Democratic Independence Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Dangerous “hot” in Apostlemi, in the Gouves - Hersonissos department.” You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, I have tabled a written question on the subject, I have received a written answer, but because it concerns, I believe, a very important problem, which has to do with the life and safety of drivers and passengers of cars which will pass through the specific point of the BOAK which is now being built, so I am bringing it up and up to date, to highlight the responsibility we have not to hand over this section as a trap for the life of transiting cars. And I'm explaining. In the Hersonissos Gouves section now constructed, at one point it has two walls on the right and left, which have been made roughly and of course without study, in order to contain the deeds that had collapsed in a previous year. In other words, there are two temporary constructions which have been made to deal with a specific problem many years ago. Unfortunately, in the study carried out and as the Crete Development Agency informs me, this point had not been modified, and as a result of two LEI traffic strips, at this point only two strips without LEI and, indeed, the width of the strips was smaller, in order to fit them into this point. In other words, we have a sigh, and there is a boulevard, and each sector has a separate passage. Very rightly, the study on the rest of the track has a separate left-hand crossing and a separate right-wing crossing, but at this point we have a sigh that will cause victims. And since the labelling of this point - and you are a technician - must be taken into account by the Ministry and by the BOAK and the study amended at this point, I call on you - if you have been given the same information as the written answer, I do not want an answer - for a commitment of your own to look into the issue that is still in the construction, in order to remove these two sketchy illegal brigades, to take place as it should and be without a narrow road.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u74	Well, don't analyze now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. The analysis needs to be carried out sometimes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u76	The Minister has the floor. We have a Minister of Engineering, that's what I said. If we had a doctor, I'd leave you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Kegeroglu, I really want to speak with you. What has been done with the constructions throughout Crete and especially the Development Agency of Crete, is to draw their hair. And that is why - you remember the intervention we made in consultation with the region - the Development Agency no longer has the power of road construction. These will be in the municipalities, the region and the Ministry, as they are throughout the rest of Greece. Now, the briefing I have from the services is that in 2011 this part of the road without LEAs had been approved. My view is that it is not right for all the sections of the motorways or the technical projects on the motorways to have LEAs. There is no reason, namely - and this is international practice - to tunnels, bridges and where we do not have a very large load of traffic. There's no need. We also used that logic in the Leuktros - Sparta - in other parts that we don't have that much movement. I would, however, like to commit myself, because you have asked, in the second phase of our examination of the BOAK competition, to look accurately at this part of the road in order to see the road loads and if justified within the next fifteen, twenty years, that we will have an increase in traffic load, to take the necessary steps to obtain this section of the motorway and the LEAD. We will, in fact, give you this information in public. If not required, as the OAS services say, the road will stay like this. The justification for not becoming LEA on this road is that there were very many technical works that had been done and there was no reason for the traffic load that existed, for LEA to become in this part. I accept what you are saying and it is our commitment to look into it very thoroughly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty one students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 1st High School of Attica. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor. I imagine today that you have been pleased with the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u79	Not at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u80	You don't? I have heard that he is committed to what you have asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u81	As a technician, Mr. Spirtz should have known the matter well. If you say whether the Minister should also be a technician, I would say 'no' to you, but here it is. So it's not meant to make technical mistakes. The first technical mistake is - and I am not speaking politically, I do not put it in political controversy - that it is neither a tunnel nor a bridge. It is a road without a tunnel, without a bridge and at this point it is narrowed for fifty meters, not for a long time. Now he told me about a road with about a mile [km] in the Peloponnese. Is that an excuse, Minister? Oh, no. It's 50 meters. There are two illegal walls to the right and the left, which this study here considered them to be data and lawful while it is not. It was temporary, just to contain the collapse. We make an ornament there, a road, which is really very good and modern because it has all the modern specifications - from the roadblock to the separator, the "New Jersey", etc. - and has a malicious craftsman, which is due to the unjustly bad prediction of the study. We have to deal with it. It's very little the cost. Minimal! We're talking about a few tens of thousands of euros! I mean, if I count on my own knowledge, it's about 50,000 euros. The project is 45m euros and we're talking about 50,000 euros! We will mourn victims, because this road leads to Eastern Crete and the new airport, which is under contract and has an increased load anyway than the one calculated by the study in 2010. That's for granted. So I ask, before the contractor's finished, before the work that is now being built, to see it as you said and to intervene. If you have your signature that there's security, your personal signature, okay. Or I'll buzz everything and send it to justice for what happens there. It will write on "Christos Spirtzis", "Kissis Kegeroglou", "Vardakis", "Syriac". I am referring to the colleagues who are here. Yes, we politicians here must make a decision to implement it by the technicians. Make the road right! It's just things, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u82	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u83	Santa, it's not exactly like that. The fact that there is no LEA on a section of the highway doesn't mean that the road is dangerous. There are many sections of motorways that do not have LEAs. And why don't they communicate? Let's explain it. Because where there's no L.A. doesn't mean he's got a stenosis. Where there is LEA, to say otherwise, we must not move. Another time we'll have to change...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u84	And the stripes are tighter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u85	...and Crete - even though I understand this is difficult - but the road is not narrow, which is the part to move. The second is that here I have pictures of the project "Gurnes - Hersonissos", and they show the first section here in Stavriana, which has no LEA due to the old bridge there and had to be built and thus greatly increased the cost of the motorway. The second section, we've got a bigger move, it's LA. In what you're saying, there's a bridge here, so there's no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u86	But it's unsolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u87	But let's say a few pleasant things. It is a very good motorway and, like the others who were unresolved, on Tuesday, they are being released to use it - at last - the citizens of Heraklion and, obviously, you will be invited to the opening when the Prime Minister comes down to launch them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u88	To make a comment outside Crete too. The request was - and first you accepted - whether the cost is EUR 50,000 or EUR 60,000, why should we not be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, if that were the cost, I imagine that the Ok has already done so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u90	Don't imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u91	Let's check it out. And not to say that in relation to the budgets of the projects now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u92	We move to the tenth with number 448/26-3-2019 a timely question from the second question from the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki and candidate republic - you see now how I specify, right? - to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject of "Direct restoration of damage caused to Chania by the catastrophic floods, compensation for all the affected". Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, Chania and Rethymnon, the inhabitants still measure their wounds, especially in Chania, from the recent floods that were, of course, incalculable and with five dead.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u94	He was a dead man.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u95	The situation in most areas of the prefecture remains bad tokasta. In Crete they were five dead. You saw you are neither informed how many dead Crete had. It was five: one in Chania, four in Heraklion. The state mechanism, therefore, without exaggeration, in municipalities and regions is nonexistent. Houses, neighborhoods in villages are still without water, without power, without phone. The rural network, like the rural network, remains closed, in many cases it is unaccountable. And since we've already entered the fire season, we've been told at the various fire department that there's a problem with fire-fighting vehicles having access to the various affected areas. The bridge of Keriti has become the "soft of Arta". Even the BOAK is in a dangerous situation. The landslides are constant. But disasters are not complete, Minister. The same phenomena five days ago we also had in the Prefectures of Heraklion and Lassithi, municipalities of Vianno, Oropedi, Ierapetra, Sitia and Phaistou. With the JRC's tiles, me personally and many candidates in the region, we have seen a situation that is truly incomprehensible. In Pigadakia, in the Municipality of Faistos, it is the fourth or fifth time they are flooding. The road to the Good Ports is completely destroyed. No one, but no one, gives any meaning. In Upper Vianno there are serious problems with the management of the rainwater, with the overflow of the rafts, the poor condition of the wells, with the overall urban planning plan within the settlement, especially in the town halls, primary school and health center. Creams overflowed to Arbes and the Fish Ford. The Easter river literally swallowed the Irish passage through St John by cutting the municipality two. In Myrtus, the thirty-year-old bridge is under collapse. In Makri Gialos the situation is similar, invaded streams, destroyed houses, property, incredible illegality and even legitimized by the tolerance and criminal synergy of all governments. I don't know if you know that Makris Gialos is a divided city. Half the city belongs to Sitia and the other half of the city belongs to Ierapetra. This is an unprecedented fact and no one takes responsibility for who will restore the individual damages to a divided city. Also, the river to Magula. He started there in Makri Gialos with incredible illegality, with tolerance of all governments, mayors, the district, etc. .....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u96	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u97	...heathouses, houses flooded, cars...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u98	We saw them on TV too. Not that detailed description. Ask the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u99	Watch out. The question of the disasters in Chania has been postponed twice, at the same time it has emerged for Eastern Crete, and you realise that all this must be put to the attention of the Minister, so that he can give an overall answer. We are of course also asking you about the producers who have been destroyed and it is a question of whether they will be compensated by the ELGA. ELGA no longer compensates. They've all gone, they've all stopped paying, and there's a serious issue about what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u100	ELGA is not a matter for Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u101	So we ask you what measures will be taken to restore the damage as a whole, to speed up the procedures for placing the military bridge in Certis at last. The delay so far is unjustified, and I think that there needs to be a speedy study, funding, construction with the responsibility of the state for a new bridge in this region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Symphony, you don't have any more time. In your dentistry, the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u103	The inhabitants, the farmers, the dwellings should be compensated...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u104	Well, you're asking your question. He'll answer, wait!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u105	The main point I want to make is to close down, Mr President. Allow me! You gave another five and six minutes. It's the last question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u106	I've already given you five. Two minutes, I gave you five.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u107	You interrupted me in four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u108	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u109	Finally, we must make all the necessary flooding projects, the opening, deepening of rivers, the settlement of torrentials, anti-corrosion projects covering all needs, so that we do not mourn again. That is it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u110	Minister, to the point, please! Points.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u111	Mr Colleagues and my dear colleague, you know that I have been down in the floods of February since the first moment. The five dead people you're talking about are included in other floods earlier. In the phenomena when I came down, which became the great disaster particularly in Chania and Rethymnon, there was a dead citizen, unfortunately. You know that in too many buildings of those that have been destroyed we have helped with the infrastructural blocks of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the municipalities and the region, in order to quickly make the recordings, to provide some initial solutions. And, of course, we must move on to the permanent restoration of these effects, not to make them happen again to the specific ballast laws and to have the same phenomena if there are major or severe weather phenomena. To say that I am truly surprised - I said it before - by the way in which specific bodies and agencies in Crete handle their infrastructure. Everywhere there was infringing behaviour or one, if you like, not normal behaviour in infrastructure in relation to maintenance. But in Crete it is beyond logic. I mean, you see things you might not have imagined in relation to the distortions you've encountered there. If you want, I'll be more specific in my second thoughts. What has been planned is a total of EUR 92 million from technical notes drawn up by the municipalities, the region and with the assistance of the Ministry of Infrastructure. For a large part of the infrastructure in which the municipalities cannot handle and quickly do these projects, they will be planned with the Ministry of Infrastructure. The table and final list can be given to you in about a week or so. I have the painting so we won't be late. A press release has already been published on the answer, about the distribution to the municipalities and the region. The region has already taken EUR 17.5 million. The municipalities will get the rest, and 15 million will be channelled into restoring parts of the BOAK, and not with solutions, because that is where we had made sure that we had some mature studies on these points, so that we had no such phenomena again. The first priority we have is to finish the section in the big fields, so that Chania does not have accessibility problems. More specifically, let's go to the bridge of Keritis. What happened is, in fact, a crime for both the monument and the way the monument fell. And don't say we're late, because it's a special spot. Yesterday we had a meeting with the Ministry of Culture. I think we'll break the record of rehabilitating the Plaka Bridge in Patras. It will be planned between the Municipality, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Region, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economy, as was done on the bridge of Plaka and local institutions of the university in order to restore the bridge of Keritis as it was, to serve the area. After a meeting we had with a group of residents and the Mayor of Platanias, we will also auction a study to see that there is a new bridge in the future and that the bridge of Keriti remains in one direction, so that we can use our monuments in another way, from the one we are used to today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u113	I will repeat that the dead in Crete were five, a farmer in Chania and four in Heraklion who were on a car.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u114	It was four in Heraklion, mid-February, and one in Chania. Don't drive me crazy now, one of them was in Chania.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u115	Don't have a dialogue, please. That's what Mr. Synthrakis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u116	I don't separate one of the four if one of them is in Chania and four are in Heraklion. I place myself in total for Crete, because disasters have been repeated and I cannot separate them. That is why we have had the dialogue with the President before. There are too many issues. You have confined yourself to a very specific place. The fact that they are preached in a state of emergency alone does not mean much. It's important, of course, but it doesn't say much. And I say it because, in a few parts of the disaster, there have been autopsies and recordings. It is so much the size of the disaster, which only in very few areas has been recorded, and I can tell you very specifically. What you and the region are announcing is, in fact, very little to nothing to say. So whoever knows well the extent of disasters will laugh, honestly, I'm talking to you. Do you give the Municipality of Platania 33 million? Tell me what the extent of disasters is from the first assessment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u117	That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u118	Nearly 100 million is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u119	Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u120	They then started and went down to 80 and 60, but the real disasters as a whole for their overall restoration and security in the area of road networks, bridges, etc., not to tell you that it can exceed all 100 million. To the municipality of Kissamos, how much do you give? You're giving 9 million. The municipality's estimates how much are they? It's 20 to 30 million. In the Municipality of Chania how much do you give? You're giving $3 million. What is the municipality's decision, its assessment of the damage? It's 17.5 million. But the region, since its first estimates, has been talking about 200 million losses, not including disasters in Eastern Crete, which you have said absolutely nothing about. Nothing about Eastern Crete. Why? So who is responsible for this situation? In our opinion, the governments as a whole and today, the mayors, the district rulers and it is wrong to separate them from them by saying: 'I do not have the responsibility, the regulator has it, the mayors have it or vice versa', 'No, what are we to do? The government is responsible for it, and one is throwing the ball to the other. It is an interministerial issue, you should have sat down to see it, put in front of municipalities and regions and sit down to plan. No civil protection measures were ever planned not in Crete but in total. You have never financed projects on the basis of the country's anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism shielding. That's the reality. Many of the disasters, in our view, could have been avoided by timely prevention and civil protection measures. You must leave the falses about 'climate change' to one side. These theories are very dangerous. And before that, there were intense weather phenomena, but the mess that happened now was not happening. And while you were aware of the dangerous nature of anti-military projects, you were prioritising projects and infrastructures to deal with large capital. Even one day before the disasters took place in Chania, you were photographed with the entire political and economic establishment of Crete for the airport of Kastelion, as if it were the number one to solve the problems of Crete! And you will destroy the environment in the area, including others. Finally, let me say this. Two years ago, Mr. Spirtzi, Mr. Skourletis, Minister for the Interior, we recalled the study, the flood risk management plan for the river basin across the water part of Crete. It was the Ministry of Environment and Energy that studied the dangers and problems that the whole of Crete will have from the severe flooding phenomena, over and over. In other words, it pointed out the same problems that Crete was currently suffering throughout the whole area. So here's where the responsibilities are criminally yours. You put the cost - benefit, the capital and the large business groups - ahead of the people's needs. Finally, here and now, speed up procedures, resolve any problems that can be solved immediately, based on the proposals that we made in the first place, and secondly, fund in a bad way, so that there are modern and safe infrastructures throughout Crete. That is the main demand. To compensate farmers and local residents. Operations have been destroyed, homes. Take a seat on these issues. You're talking about Certis. You are still saying that you will take the military bridge to Keriti - you have still not taken it - and the residents themselves have undertaken to build an improvised road to pass, and that is where you took them a police officer to keep them from passing. It's a road that goes through every day two thousand cars to go to work in schools, and so far nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u121	Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u122	If you ask me if I agree with this improvised road, he obviously has his risk. But you ought to have dealt with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u123	Please, close! I'm doing a hint, let's only be two in there! It can't be timely, someone wanting to include it in a timely question. Okay, it's the last question, it was very serious, but please, the parties, since they have the tool of asking, to use it. Minister, two are the main demands for funding and for the whole. Answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Synatiakis, because you belong to the JRC, I feel very close to you. So I'll tell you, Comrade Manolis, it's very good...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u125	Those of us who are not at the JRC or at SYRIZA, can't we understand the natural disasters?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u126	No, it's another KIC's perspective, and I'll explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u127	Oh, that's the point of view. So I see it with another eye the breakage of a bridge and you with another one! Don't go crazy now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u128	Now I'll explain it. It is obvious that it is very reasonable to always identify the problems, to make an analysis of them. Where the JRC was always in trouble, it was in that end. And that's why he answered today, gives an alibi to populism, gives an alibi to having phenomena like what you described. That is to say, obviously, the mayors, the district managers, the governments for incomplete anti-military planning and the anti-military armour of the country are responsibilities over time and not just. Let me ask you a question. First of all, I thank you for your good words, because this government after too many years has finished the studies a while ago - not all of them will be completed - the rest of the projects from the Ministry of the Environment and Spatial Planning - of the flood-risk basins and all the other studies, which are prerequisites for us to have a serious flooding plan. But the following thing can be said. If we had a mayor of the KKE in Crete - as we speak of this region - in Chania or Rethymnon, would it demarcate the streams? Where we have the mayors of the JRC, are the streams defined? And there's also funding. I will tell you after the meeting and specific examples. The answer is no, because we will not close our eyes, that certain citizens have trampled streams, have shut streams. They don't want to be - not everyone - delimitation. Or we go to actions like the one you said. Some people went, he says, one night - as if it's the secret school there, the whole world knew it - and they put a few tubes in from what I understood and made a rough passage. He rained in this space and took it all. So if he was a man, we'd be mourning another victim and another dead man. Keriti's bridge's down. From what fell, Mr. Synthraki, the bridge of Certis? Who diverted the river there? Who went and shot concrete without a study, without a mechanic, without anything? Platanias' bridge fell. Who went and broke the stream and also diverted? When I went, I thought the house that was there was arbitrary, but the house existed before the road. Another closed the stream from the opposite side. And they were citizens who shut them down and were municipalities that had previously shut them down, because they did other infrastructures. What I want to say in two words is that we must change our attitude as a society in this particular matter. Obviously there must be holistic design for anti-milling protection. We do too much for there to be both Athens and Thessaloniki. These large antimilitary projects that have been planned are about 500,000,000 from the Ministry. And as far as I know, in the region of Crete as well as in many regions, people are trying to sort out the streams and have serious flood protection. It is not easy, however, either to approve the studies or to delineate the courses or not to take into account infrastructures and town plans already approved and operating other facilities. For the last question you asked about Eastern Crete, I would like to tell you that I have contacted all four mayors you mentioned and obviously the district manager. There was no need for assistance from the Ministry, such as in Chania and Rethymnon, for the recordings and completion of the technical bulletins. First of all, as far as I know, the Minister for Agriculture has also come down and Mr Stathakis has come down for the previous flood, and for this he will send a few beads. I therefore believe that the response will be as fast. We do not have the damage we had in western Crete. They're much less. I also want to tell you that the money that has been given, I believe, covers the whole of the damage. It is another thing to make a budget in general with the invoices that exist - you know how flexible this is, how flexible this assessment is up to you - and it is another thing to make tenders, even in summary procedures, to restore damage and not to do projects that have never been done in Crete on the occasion of natural disasters. If we need to help with other money, we will. The Ministry of Economy has, in fact, ensured that these resources are available to cover such situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u129	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u130	You don't have the floor anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u131	He asked a question to the JRC, and he answered it, and it's not stylish at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u132	We're not having a conversation now. We're all aware of it. And I'm indestructible, I get it. In an elegant way, but he answered it the way he chose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u133	So I don't want to give the answer as a JRC?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u134	Tritology will you do? Mr. Coward, please, for God's sake! I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Priminal Responsibility of Ministers", as is the case, the 94-2019 criminal case law concerning the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Christos Spirtzis and the criminal case law relating to the former Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Stavros Kontonis. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-11-S1-commons.u135	With the agreement of the House at 11.22 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 12 April, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
