ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we begin, I would like to take some time, but a lot of thought on two important milestones that coincide with the time today. They may seem to look like heirocres, but they have the same axis of reference. The World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and our day of National Resistance have something in common, the strong and inspiring attitude they have inspired and which we must adopt against the violence of all forms, whether individual, collective or national. The International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women was originally introduced to honor the memory of the brothers Mirabal, who were wrestling against the regime of the dictator Trojan in the Dominican Republic of the 1960s. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Anyone who does not want can come out of the Chamber if he does not care about the two anniversary rates. Their resistance to the movement of 14 June made them known throughout the globe with the name "petals". Sadly, the end of three of them was a witness. On November 25, ‘60, the Mirabal sisters found a terrible death after being tortured and beaten wildly by the dictator’s capitalists. Their emblematic forms inspired the establishment of the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, but giving new broader extensions. That is why today a woman, not necessarily a revolutionary, has the same if not more likely to suffer physical or verbal or emotional violence, because she was only born. When one in three faces some time in the life of physical, psychological or sexual violence, when one in five will definitely fall victim to rape or attempted rape, when more than 40% of European Union women are sexually harassed at the workplace, when hundreds of thousands of women on the planet are smuggled every year to sexual exploitation and forced labour, we understand that the violence suffered by women's gender is an uncontrolled phenomenon, but which, all of us and everyone individually, can fight with small but also larger collective steps. The action and reaction of all of us is the key to combating violence, silence and tolerance is complicity, while dynamic resistance is an ideal response to eliminating the phenomenon. In short, we should listen and see around us, speak and denounce, not be complacent, not to cover, not to justify ourselves. Because, of course, there is no excuse and no delight in any form of violence, especially with regard to women. Only with uninterrupted small or large battles can we now feel confident and perhaps also proud that we will achieve strong and effective blows against the violence of women. All it takes is courage and strong voice, because silence and tolerance feed the pathogens, while daring weakens it and actually has the power to eliminate it. So this daring, as I have said before you, we honor you today in duplicate. Along with World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women comes the great day of honor of our National Resistance, which was established on the occasion of the anniversary of the Bridge of Gorgopotamos. This is a milestone exclusively of our own, since our homeland was the leading symbol of a struggle against the triple occupation that lived. From the north to the south and from the east to the west, Greece suffered the pandemics from the Italians, the Bulgarians and the Germans, who with unprecedented cruelty, with cynicism, grabbed, plundered, and plundered the place, the living and the lives of the Greeks. Just one month after the occupation of Thessaloniki by German troops in May of '41, our first resistance organization called "Freedom" is born. It was the beginning of a brilliant story written by the National Resistance and was even the first resistance organization at a pan-European level. The follow-up is now known to everyone. Small and large nuclei action, both locally and at an enlarged level, have been founded in the region and in the urban centres, achieving strong blows to the occupancy. Powerful and determined to move with coordinates but also with bold symbolic moves, such as the downfall of the Nazi flag from the Holy Rock of the Acropolis, thanks to Lakis Santa and Manolis Glezo, to which - I believe - we all wish that the House will quickly recover and be soon near us. From Macedonia to Crete and from Epirus to Samos, the Greeks struggled with the Lefkos, with self-sacrificing as well as with appalling losses. Near the fifty thousand souls were lost after they witnessed in the hands of Germans and Italians. When for a dead soldier, for example, the Germans killed ten Greeks, for a hundred and for colonists or generals over a thousand, we can see the extent of the massacre we suffered. No other people in Europe suffered, fought, dared, as our people did. No one stood up, no one was beaten, no one stood up like us. That is why our National Resistance is a precious legacy in our minds and hearts, because it inspires, guides and teaches. It inspires love for a free homeland. It guides the next generations with compass of faith and boldness. It teaches through its edge, but mainly through the subsequent darks of the civil war, that the struggles should be collectively given the ideals and homogeneity, always with a positive sign and away from divisions or divisions, which generally serve different interests. The National Resistance continues to be a lively and fertile piece of history, a guide to who we are, what we are and what we should never be. Anyone who has revered with respect and listens with sensitivity and clear mind to her teachings, can feel the greatness of the Greek soul and also its weaknesses, can be proud of the material from which our people are made, but also clearly see its vulnerabilities. If each of us kept this thought in mind, then together, with common dreams, even at different times, we could fight today for our own national resistance to all of the harmful things for our homeland, a resistance against plans, behind the backstage and in interests that steal little from the future of this place, a resistance that will bring the uplift of an entire people and a country that still awaits its resurrection. Thank you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Parliament's decisions: Debate, at the level of the Heads of Government, and decision (vote) on the revised provisions of the Constitution, in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure. Today's sitting will start with the speeches of the Members of Parliament' s groups opposite and will close with the Prime Minister's speech, without abstractions, and then the voting procedure will follow, as decided in the Conference of Presidents. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, at the top of all, this is the time when, as parliamentarians, we are reviewing words, phrases, articles of the constitutional framework, within which the state monopoly on legal violence is called upon to restrict the power of the powerful against the powerless and the oppressed. This is, after all, the role of each Constitution, making state power an obstacle to other private powers, but also an obstacle to itself. In the process of Revision of the Constitution, which has evolved over the past few days, we have noted with interest the attitude of the parties that were drawn up in the Memorandum, which, for eight years now, say "yes" to all those that have essentially led to the expropriation through the "decide and order" of the troika of a large part of both public and private property, now come in a procedural way, we monitor the proposals of the major parties, without great ambition, to change working and many times for party interests, adding to the lost opportunities of the Memorandum Greece another lost opportunity for a systemic and systematic constitutional review. In total contrast to this tired attitude, we in Mera25 have tabled and tabled measured proposals, which systematically prejudge a constitution of the great struggle necessary to protect people against expropriation, alienation, authoritation and the total loss of democratic control over what is important to the lives of citizens. In other words, on the one hand, we have fragmentary, machine-to-work changes and we oppose a systemic review. In the constitutional fantasies, which we hear very often in this Chamber, on constitutional freedoms and rights, we oppose a realistic and strengthening approach to all of this, which no Constitution can guarantee itself when the oligarchal superpower collides with insurmountable state authoritarianism into a regime of governmental colony. For us in Mera25, the Constitution is two things at the same time, it is a tool of understanding the structure of power today, including the propaganda of the powerful with which they hide and strengthen their lawless authority, and at the same time the Constitution is a useful tool for the majority of citizens and for minorities, who strive to protect themselves from the powerful. Our proposals, the Mera25 proposals, fall into three different categories: firstly, radical equality in civil rights; secondly, return of the municipality to democracy; thirdly, maximum freedom, immunity from all forms of power, state, oligarchy, employers' and fourthly, a new interpretation of rights as a new three-fold freedom. I shall begin with the radical equality of civil rights. It is important that we use this process of constitutional revision to "democratise" the beliefs. And I start with the relationships of State-Church. John Stewart Mill said the majority was entitled to believe that her beliefs are the right glory. What the majority is not entitled to do is to believe that it is entitled to force consensus with these beliefs, even one person, even if that one person is wrong. James Madison, one of the parents of the first Western Constitution, the American, said: "The less the relationship is between the Church and the State, the more exterminated both institutions will be". As far as Article 3(1) is concerned, we are the only party that supports the state's full neutrality. the removal of all references to any religion, not official or predominant, and with any legitimacy of the state to engage in and engage in the way in which a religious community, a church, manages and organizes its home. As far as the oath is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we at Mera25 say something very simple: it is an anachronistic institution. There's no reason to swear for anything. We are the only party that proposes abolishing the oath's anachronistic institution for graduates of universities, for MPs. Enforcement of office is sufficient. Equality against the law, which we all agree on. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take you back to 2001. We had just entered the monetary union, the waves of loans from the banks in Frankfurt, Paris, City of London, to our country, both in the private and public sectors. It had started building the bubble that would blow so much bronze in 2010. The complication had begun to take exponential growth rates. It was then that you of the New Democracy and of the PASOK passed the law on the responsibility of Ministers with two hundred and eight votes among you, a law that was as if it were made to wash the complex that was built from 2001 to 2010 and whose bubble broke in 2010. We say something simple: abolishing parliamentary immunity, abolishing the immunity of Ministers. In the third part, with regard to the radical equality of civil rights, we welcome the change introduced by the Government in Article 54, with the introduction of the idea - and practice - with the relevant legislation of the electoral regions abroad for the displaced Greeks. At the same time, we will oppose this interesting alliance that we see among you all in limiting the right to vote and stand for election. Is it possible to import assets, E9, to connect the right to vote with the assets? Is it possible, in particular, for left parties to link ownership to the right? These were the remains of feudalism and we bring them back here for our emigrants? I'm closing this parentheses. I'm coming to second chapter. The second chapter concerns the return of the municipality to democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the modern defence of the oligarchy has been integrated from the outset, codified, in all constitutions beginning with the Constitution of the United States. He had said James Madison, whom I mentioned earlier, "no matter how small the population of a state is its representatives must be enough to avoid oligarchy". We don't disagree here. And he added, "On the contrary, when the population is large", as in a modern society, more than a hundred thousand, "the representatives must be few in order to obtain from the confusion of mass". In other words, modern representative democracies in capitalism aim to evict the municipality from democracy, one magazine every four to five years to exercise electoral right without, however, being involved in decision-making. The result is a democratic process that not only in Greece, but in all Western societies it is declining with apathy, with disgrace. As Mera25, you will hear it again and again from us. We are proposing a new approach to the problem of degressive democracy by introducing into the institutions of the democracies of constituencies. The legacy was a well-proved tool of democracy in ancient Athens. Today remains the impact of this with the jury in the courts. We propose our revised Constitution to include the possibility of setting up co-chairs and elected citizens that are institutions alongside Parliament, with the regions, with the municipalities. In the case of Article 101a on the independent authorities and the question of planning the national strategy for education, for education, for health, for the media. We believe that if we, the parties, are simply defining our representatives at the National Broadcasting Council, to the various independent authorities, what will happen is nothing more than the reproduction of a failed and degressive democratic legitimacy, which is ultimately not legalised. We are proposing the DISCIPs, the CouncUs and Elected Citizens' Consultative Councils, which will consist of a third of elected and two thirds of deputies, who will operate like the Assembly of Citizens in Ireland, who has found the way to break the deadlock on the issues relating to abortions, a process that I do not want to be particularly involved at the moment, but which shows us that the combination of judges and elected is a combination that must enter our Constitution and must govern the way in which the municipality returns to democracy. Let us take another example, the election of the President of the Republic. Today's process - we know most of us, I think we are almost all agreed - is unacceptable. Party games cannot be played with the election of the President of the Republic. On the other hand, the throwing of the bar to fifty-five of a Member of Parliament is putting in particular the standards that we demand as a society to elect him or her to integrate, to personalise the country's city. The universal suffrage is inconsistent with what we have, because we will end up with a Prime Minister who has received fewer votes than the President of the Republic. We propose something simple: voting procedure as they exist. If we do not reach the hundreds of eighty-eight Members, we should add to the three hundred Members of this House a six hundred-strong body, and this body in which Parliament will also be involved - it will be one third of it - to decide and vote for the President of the Republic. More generally, our proposals are aimed at involving citizens in decision-making, the return of the municipality to democracy. In Article 44(2), we consider that, in the context of such an EPC, it should be possible to propose even a referendum on budgetary matters. In Article 73, the right to propose laws, we are again the only ones who are proposing a referendum on the popular legalisation of such an interparliamentary council of deputies and elected citizens, provided that there are 100 000 signatures. And I now come to the third chapter, the chapter of freedoms, the maximization of the freedoms of the citizens of that country. For three hundred years parliamentarians have been talking about constitutional revisions in a conflict between the concept of freedom and the concept of equality. We believe that the only way to strike a balance between these two concepts is through the redefinition of the word coercion. There's one way a robber can force you with a revolver, to deprive you of your right to consent, but there's another way to take advantage of you when you don't have the ability to say no to a contract that's extremely exploiting, but you have no chance to say no. On the one hand, we are talking about strengthening the freedoms currently in existence in the Constitution by extending the concept of freedom as immunity from exploitation, extending the freedom to say 'yes', consensual to the freedom to say 'no'. But what does it mean? It means you need alternatives. That is why we include social security, labour rights, the right to collective bargaining in the context of strengthening freedoms and not simply rights. We are giving a new interpretation of rights as a positive freedom to develop talent, personality, physical health, which requires public goods from water to books. And finally, expanding all freedoms to those who step on Greek soil. We are the only party, in relation to Article 5(2), who put forward proposals to guarantee corresponding rights of refugees and migrants. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, what is the biggest threat to our democracy today? To us, Mera25 is the feeling of the many that we are mocking them in this Chamber today. I want to give you a taxi driver's opinion last Thursday. He wasn't a Mera25 fan, I assure you. In fact, he voted for a new Republic. He told me: “Dear, we have a special division of labour in our country. We send you to the House to legislate in favour of the few, who then disguise us the powerless and with this money they buy publicity for you so that you can convince us to vote for you again." Ladies and gentlemen, in a normal country there are two constitutional accounts. The sovereign constitutional account has its roots, of course, as we all know, in Locke, Montesquier, Adam Smith, James Madison. This account is a map of the protection of the freedom of the individual, an immunity from the breach of the individual, the property, contracts both by others and by the state. There is, however, a radical interpretation of urban constitutions as a tool to limit the municipality and to protect the minority of the occupants from the State and the State repression, a repression that the occupants need to limit the people and ensure the privileges of the occupants. But Greece is not even a normal country. Some last week you were annoyed when I said that our Parliament, our state, has been degraded after ten years of monumental procedure, that it is a sublete state, with one of our people being on the floors of quadruple bankruptcy, that our ministries are full of holes with basic services to be fully delivered to creditors. Ladies and gentlemen, the work of truth does not flatter hypocrisy, especially the memorial hypocrisy. If I are mistaken if we are sovereign in this House, Mr Stakoura, Prime Minister, legislate - and you will have our vote - for a reduction from tomorrow morning on the primary surpluses. Legislate the abolition of 100% of tax advances. Finally, create the 'bad' bank that will stop the looting of private property from private funds. Take back from the Financial Stability Fund the colonial selection procedures of its executives and the way in which they are paid and the level of remuneration. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are not ready to deal with the truth, we will not succeed - this House and our Constitution - in recovering our credibility. Yes, it is the top moment of the Constitution's Review, and that's why it gives us the opportunity to be faced with reality. Our urban constitution by definition provides a fairy description of equal rights and obligations for a class society of inequality of rights and obligations. It is not just that reality fails to meet constitutional requirements. No, constitutional cheques help to hide the dreadful reality of Greek debt, parasitic, para-state capitalism. A crisis question: When does an ideal become an obstacle to its realization? The answer: When citizens have this ideal to confuse it with a description of what is in place, a reality that is far from this ideal. The proposals of PART25 aim to give room for new concepts and processes, which respect not abstractly ideal, which have nothing to do with reality, but to respect the reality, namely what does who, in that country, has been struggling for a decade now without real popular, democratic sovereignty, to become sustainable again. The Constitution alone does not guarantee anything. It's like a court of law in a exhausted, entrepreneurial state. But it is an opportunity, a wish, an important declaration of dignity, a potential human being of freedom from suppression of state and private power. It is a lever to restore the "Municipality" in the Republic, for example with the institution of the confiscators involved in decision-making. Who will preserve this wish, where is the Constitution? Whatever we vote today, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is patriotism among the Greeks, such as the legendary '1-1-4' we have been lactated. Take note, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, which today, while in this Chamber we are talking about fine words, great words, while there are increasingly dangerous forms of illegal repression in the name of the law: the basic principle of constitutional legitimacy is the right and duty of citizens to resistance to the spectrum of violation of the spirit and very often the letter of the Constitution. Before you say that this is a disgust to a subversive, I would remind you that this is the beginning that Adam Smith was the first to touch. Shortly after James Madison, in 1787, said the spirit of resistance to the government is so useful that I wish we could keep them alive. The responsible disobedience of Mera25 today takes the form of responsible democratic proposals here, as part of the constitutional review, while tomorrow and every day, he will take the form of struggles for democracy, dignity and the recovery of popular sovereignty out there, where the battle for our democracy is given in real time and place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u3	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because we are talking about democracy, Parliament's image shows that we ourselves are not convinced that what we are doing is correct. There are many colleagues who are absent on a very important subject with huge aspects for the next few years. This makes me sad, because we are once again proving that we are not just inadequate, but we are even turning the back on what we need to do right. And I honestly say it with so much grief! And I will tell my friend, Andreas the Loverdo that, "With a Lover spring does not come". You're alone in the Constitutional Review!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u5	They're coming now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u6	Spring will come after a few months, Andrea. And I'm saying that for everyone. And I repeat, for everyone! And when I say for everyone, I mean for everyone. And to be consistent, Prime Minister, I am saddened that we have spoken of a constitutional review, but the proposals of the small parties have not been heard at all. You only bring SYRIZA's suggestions and yours. For what? Then why did we have the infamous dialogue? And you are a man who has - at least so I believe - a reformist concept, believe in consensus. Why was there not one good suggestion, to say from the JRC, not to say from the Greek Solution? Why does it have to save and well to constantly feed yourself from your choices? How democratic and constitutional can that be? How serious, if you want, can this be as a proposal? Any suggestions from the Greek Solution didn't like you? But no one? You're the Peninsulas and the Almightys who know all about it? Let's not do it at all. You should come over here, vote for it yourself and leave. So he's got so much trouble for nothing. Of course, what I think - and I must say - is that it applies to the New Democracy, is that you are suffering from an ambush. Abnormism was a choice of the Abderians. They had made very nice water fountains, they made very nice things, but the city didn't have water, Prime Minister. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] 'Abstractism', Mr. Colleague. You know that, Mr. Javarra. Why am I saying that? We are talking about our Constitution, we are talking about a top reform when the state is under comitology, that is, when Greek laws are subjugated by Europeans, directives and comitology. Isn't that some kind of aberration, my Prime Minister? Clearly it is. And it's because I told you that you're making fountains in town, you make nice waters, nice basins, but there's no water in town. You are going to make a Constitution good in your view, bad in our view - as is, of course, the case of a majority as usual, because that is democracy, we want, we do not want the majority to decide - but listen to the voice of reason, listen to the voice and the suggestions of our own. It's not bad to hear. It's a bad thing not to hear, Prime Minister, and to think that New Democracy knows everything. Because if New Democracy knew all about it - half the people here are twenty years of MPs - you would not go bankrupt with Greece. If you knew everything well, we wouldn't drive mathematics in the bankruptcy of New Democracy, PASOK. Later SYRIZA put his little fat too. So maybe you don't know everything well. We have told you, Prime Minister, that we as Greek Solution are in favour of private education. Why were you afraid? Why have you been afraid, ladies and gentlemen? Aren't you in favour of private education, Prime Minister, yourself? What scares you and does not legislate properly, correctly and to talk about non-profit-making universities, but private education? Let me tell you. Fear them here. You have a stereophobe ideoleptic in the New Democracy. Afraid the so-called Left won't rise. Understand, there is no Left in Greece. If there was one, most of them wouldn't stay in Great, they'd stay in Keracini. A few of them live there. I can't understand why you're afraid. Also, fear the teachers. Teachers are very important to us. You know what a leading German said: Bring me teachers, break up the state. That's why Greece was dismantled. From the teachers you're afraid of. Mr. Gerapititi, it's not personal reproach. You have been an excellent teacher, a teacher, but you know how many teachers have been in Greece for decades. Because he was Bajanakis' brother, he was the lover or the mistress, and most of them become teachers. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Don't laugh. That's the truth. This is Greece, Greece of 1974. Unfortunately, that's true. Of course, they're not all like that. Sometime, though, we can see who they are not like that to get them out of there. Why don't you do private universities? Tell me a reasonable argument to hear that'my child, we did not do it for that'. Fear to rule, fear to put the knife in the bone. This has been the problem of the New Democracy for decades ago. You have been trembling for decades of those who, as long as they govern, had five six steps and as long as they govern a right-wing party - as long as you may be called Right, in any case, you are light-right, in my view - you have had fifteen, twenty rallys and marches. I'm telling you, because I want to talk a little bit seriously. Let's take it seriously. Tell me, why don't you introduce the incompatibility of the union? Why didn't you introduce it? What's the point? You tell me. Qualification of political executive, party identity and trade unionist. Why should I have trade unionists in ELME, OLEME, universities, student groups and conflict with each other? What does education have to do with this whole thing? Let me make it straightaway so we can make it clear to each other. A party executive grows in the party machine and later in the party state in this way. Wear the party from the state. It is not possible in Germany - we both know it well, Mr President - for the government to leave, but for the state to operate. In Greece, the government leaves, the state does not work. And now you all have in mind the elections that are coming. You're thinking, he says, you should go to an early election. Imagine going to two congresses at the same time. But when you act with your mind in the elections, you can't make a constitutional review of proper and worthwhile reasons anyway. Listen, we have a vertical perception, you don't. Is it possible to trade the Greek police and the military? Are we all right? The trade unions at the Greek police and the military? We're saying something else. There is no need for syndication if these people are paid very well and have the logistics infrastructure to work better. You can't do that. They are contradictory to democracy. They do not stand in a state which, in any case, wants to speak with a reformist perception and put forward proposals. President of the Republic. I've said it a thousand times, we've had it all worked out. Since 1974, everything has been done on the basis of your party - yours, the PASOK earlier - line. What was it all for? He was right-wing government and chose a centre-left for the vote by others, because it was thought that others were hostages and had to vote. What did we have? Left government. We put - not to say the man's name - a centre-floor, so that we can all vote together. If this is not called a coup d'état or an agreement under the table or hostage of the President of the Republic, what's it called? We say, directly from the Greek people, that the President of the Republic should be voted on. Why is it bothering us? France is also a number of other states. And I'm telling you to change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u7	It doesn't change.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u8	Constitutional Review, change it. Presidential, why? I don't understand. And to tell you differently, we can change it. We've changed everything here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u9	It's forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u10	Is it forbidden? And for the wages cut, it was forbidden. The courts have basically given the wages back, but you have not given them back. Isn't that forbidden? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But it suits you, forbidden, Mr. Gerapetti, when it does not suit you, it is not forbidden. I don't understand that. It is a matter of your democracy. It's forbidden, the Constitution says so. The Constitution says other things, however, which do not apply. He says you can't cut my payroll, the court can vindicate me, but you can keep cutting my payroll. It's not like that. I can say more. On the other hand, agree to the hundred and fifty-one, that it's a majority number. Why don't you put the other one, Mr. Gerapitri? Three parties, one hundred and fifty one votes. Three parties, why two, why one? To vote a hundred and fifty Members of Parliament for the President of the Republic. I'm telling you, diffusely now. Put three parties in. So basically you have the stigma, the justification for the consent of the rest of the parties. So you say “we are a hundred fifty - eight, they may leave us five - six, we will have a hundred fifty - one. Hey, we're going to vote." That's not reasonable. Honestly, you put democracy in the balance. You put the constitutional procedure in the balance. He is hostage to the President and to whomever President has come out, he will still be hostage to this party that will support him. Also, the selection of maxims three years. I had heard the current Prime Minister say this before, namely that the Member should stay for three years and end. We cannot be here eternal MPs. We cannot be twenty and thirty years of parliamentarians and not change the composition of Parliament. And I'm not just talking about faces, I'm talking about ideas. We want new, fresh kids, whatever their retirement is. We want young people who are not essentially from family rule or partisan rule built up, born and raised. Does the party designate the MPs? Three years and at home. It's over! We are not eternal MPs. Why not return, says the Greek Solution, Mr President, the institution of the revocation by the citizens themselves of the electorate, an institution which has too many states? For us, the proposals of laws - I will tell you straight away - must be made by thirty thousand citizens. Thirty thousand citizens to make a law proposal. That means direct democracy. Why do you have to know everything and just legislate? Why should you do all the laws, as you please, to appoint whoever you want and to legislate? And when I say you, I mean whatever government. Thirty thousand citizens want to legislate. They're suggesting something. We have said so in our proposals, we have not been heard. There was no Greek solution. It is foreseen in Spain, Italy, and even in Skopje. Even in Romania! I'm not telling you about Spain and Italy. Thirty thousand signatures - which are many millions more than us - and citizens can make laws. Here is the citizen's involvement in the legislative process. Here is the active citizen, how we will actually have him in vigilance, so that he can identify himself with democracy. Now the citizen is just asking for ruffles. He runs in the Minister's office, at the MP's office, to ask for a rushphetti and is the Member's servant for this service. Oh, no! The citizen must be an active citizen. I'm not talking about the law on the responsibility of ministers. This is where they laugh - how many years - and marbles. No one was punished, no one will be punished, for granted. Committees, committees of inquiry. The account number, according to a large prescriber, in the armaments era was a phone number. I'm talking about Ake Chochazopoulou. All of this has deported us as Members, as a Parliament, as a democracy in the eyes of the citizens, who of course are not ruthless of responsibilities, because unfortunately they are coming every time and they are voting for the one who has destroyed them. Most citizens suffer from suicidal idealism, which is in my own sense a little irrational. The New Democracy and the PASOK cannot destroy them and vote for them again. Something's wrong. Something's not right in logic. I may have another perception of logic, and they know better. And the worst part of all is that we are the only country without a constitutional court, Prime Minister. Why don't you do that? Constitutional court by five supreme judges, five legal professors and five lawyers from the Ice Bay. We proposed it in writing, tomorrow morning. Why don't you do it? To know which laws are illegal or legal. What law is compatible with the Constitution or incompatible. We must not go to the Council of State and wait five years for a law to be constitutional or unconstitutional. Russia, Bulgaria, Romania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, a number of countries have a constitutional court. Why shouldn't we? Why shouldn't Greece have a constitutional court? Tell me one serious reason or argument to understand it, but to be together, not because I think so or so. I do not want to say anything about the revision of the constitution, but I will say about the electoral law. We are nature and position in favour of mere analogy. I've said it a thousand times. But there's one thing that puts us on the brake and it's Thrace. So we have to be careful about simply proportional. To enter the House with 1% - 1.5% we will not play games with Thrace. Some people in here know what I mean. We won't give anyone the right to talk about other things. Yes to the simple analogue, but always looking at the national interest. Above the Greek Solution, the national interest is invaded and not under the Greek Solution, the national interest. Clear things, because you don't play with fire. Whoever plays with fire burns himself. So let's see him and the law to talk about it. Let me tell you now why your proposal to review the constitution is a cowardly one. You have not dared the election of the President of the Republic directly from the Greek people. You don't dare. And you know why? Imagine suggesting that you or others would suggest someone else would come out. You'd be in trouble. That's how power parties work. What are they afraid of? The verdict of the Greek people, the post-election. Why? Because seeing that you are plucking, you would have a result of 30% -35% today. From 40% you had, in five months, five units down? That's what you're afraid of. The reflection, the image of defeat that can happen. So you're not democrats, you're neo-democrats looking at chairs. It makes a difference. I am another democrat and I am a neo-democrat who looks at my chair - and that of course refers to all parties. Of course both New Democracy and SYRIZA agree here and say that the president's election should be disconnected. For the constitutional court, as I said, you have not dared. The incompatibility of the Member and Minister. I'll give you an example, Mr. Gerapitris, so you know that. In Germany there are sixteen different constitutional courts. You know that? Every state has a constitutional court, Mr. Gerapititi. Every State of Germany has its own constitutional court. Every state!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u11	It has not been revised.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u12	Let's do it. Do we agree to do it, yes or no? Let's start, Mr. Gerapitri. Listen to something, 'don't have, I can't, I don't do', if I don't start something, what do I do with it? Let's have a dialogue. Why don't you have a dialogue to see how many people agree with the constitutional court? Expose the rest of them. You know, I like 'do not do'. There's nothing going on in this place. In fact, nothing happens when the law says so. But, of course, the law catches the little mussel, not the huge tarantine. And whoever understood, he understood. Unfortunately, the laws are in Greece, not to exist, not to be implemented, but to be invoked by some for their inability or reluctance to do something new. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We are going to go to another story, to Article 86,'since the responsibility of the Ministers'. Well, all right, that had to be said, “Article 86 “not about the responsibility of ministers”.” And that's what bothers me. Prime Minister, do you want to stay in history? I'm telling you, because we've known each other since the past. Do, finally, the National Security Council of the country. You want to stay in history? Take this first step. Make a National Security Council, as Turkey does, as Germany does, as France does. Not only should the Prime Minister decide and whenever he wants to call the Heads of the Parties or the generals. National Security Council. Do it! Put it on, finally! Is that so hard? You know, everything I'm saying to you is proposals that were rejected by the New Democracy and SYRIZA because they didn't like them. Perhaps now that the Prime Minister hears it - because I imagine that much might not be carried back to him - he can hear it and accept it. The National Security Council, because we are actually going through a difficult period - you know what I mean - both with Turkey and with Skopje and Albania and with what is happening around us, is now more necessary than ever. It's happening now, not to say yesterday! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] I'll need two more minutes, Mr. President. I won't talk about the economy. But I'll say something very simple. Yesterday, Austrian Kurts issued a new law. He puts a padlock in the mosques and sends out imams, Prime Minister. Read his announcement, Mr. Gerapitris. And Denmark decided to take asylum seekers to an uninhabited island. And read that. And if you don't want to read, you'd better go to Spain with the gag law... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I have something to say to you. I can invoke what I want. But when I'm here, I know very well what I'm saying. Trust me. And I'll tell you something better. If you cannot do these, copy the successful ideas of others, the Greek Solution. ‘Gag law’ is the legislation of Spain since 2015, which effectively prohibits asylum. Read, study and come. Don't tell me it can't be. It's things that happen. Why would people do it and we shouldn't? So when the others close mosques, Prime Minister, you want to mosque the hot spots. And I'll give you some advice, know something. The Afghan with Pakistani can't go to the same mosque. You should know that. Ask your advisors. They never go to the same mosque. It'll need a second mosque and a third mosque and a fourth mosque. It will take many mosques, believe me, because it is not Islam a single religion. We're gonna need a lot of mosques together! If you want to make Greece Muslim, we have another view. Greece will remain Greek and Christian, tolerant of both Christian and Greek. It's over and out and out and whoever it is! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Is it also possible, Prime Minister - do you have a seriousness - to put me on Ms. Darryl Irene - beautiful the last name - which is co-operating with George Soros, from Cyprus, at the University of Cyprus, which is owned by Soros indirectly and directly? Your consultants didn't look into this? So much worship with Soros? So much love? And I say it because George Soros has a ban on Israel, because this guy wiped out Jews, sent them to the hangars. When he was seventeen years old, by his own letters, his gangs, his nation, were going to the hangars. And we are dealing with Greece with the non-governmental organizations, and we are putting Mrs. Meridakis, who is now directly addressed to you, all of a sudden and out of nowhere, this lady has the post of Minister. And because I want to give numbers, I have the answer of the Minister of Public Order, Mr Chrysochoidis. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In Thessaloniki in the nine months of 2019, we had six thousand nine hundred eighty-five arrests for illegal immigration, illegal immigrants. The perpetrators of theft and recurring robbery of 52.1%, 44% and 30% are people from Pakistan, Morocco, Bangladesh, Algeria. The answer is in the document I submitted. Are you bringing them, Prime Minister? Are we bringing them to Greece? And it's not your fault. They just don't have papers, they don't have passports. They throw 'em, they kick 'em. How do you invite them in here and tell them, "Come here, the unaccompanied children"? Let's get things cleared up. What does "unaccompanied child" mean? I want to hear it, Prime Minister. An unaccompanied child is the 20-year-old mantle? Kid's under twelve years. The other is a minor, Prime Minister. The sixteen-year-old's not a kid, he's a minor. Another child and another minor. And when the juvenile's 20-year-old, but he says 17-year-old and the state doesn't know about it, the services don't know about it, don't tell me all of them unaccompanied and underage. You know, there are terrible contradictions. I hear colleagues from the New Democracy saying that they cannot guard the sea borders. They remind me of Mr. Tsipras who says that the sea has no borders. That's a world originality, of course! All seas have borders, as long as the state and the state want it. The military know that the places from which illegal immigrants come are eight places in the Aegean Sea. Eight! Talk to the people in charge. Eight of them are where they come from. If our country can't preserve eight points at sea, then I'm afraid! Close the shop, unlock the windows and the doors to shut everybody in here. On the other hand, it is forbidden - and I will tell you directly - the push up, the push back. Why shouldn't I push back? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Uh, yeah, you made all Greeks do push ups and they've gone crazy in push ups without getting anything. Let's do a push back now. Let's actually go. Fragments from our own ships at sea borders can and must be done. And one question, Prime Minister: is it true what was written in the press, that in Levitha, on this uninhabited island, it was the first place these people would go and suddenly did you back, why did you fear Turkey, which claims from the 25th mediterranean and east many islands? Is that true? Written in the press. All Type Boss, that you heard the Greek Solution and would take them to a semi-inhabited island. That's a good choice. On an uninhabited island. You did, however, back because you feared Turkey. You're saying he informed you of the State Department. Let's actually go and close up here. I have a question for all these intelligent - the "intelligent nothing", as Pericles said - very important: the Congolese has a per capita income of EUR 446 per annum - the Congolese! - these are data from the OECD, and it gives 5,000 euros to come to Greece. I mean, he's been working for twelve years to get to Greece. That's what the Syrians and all these fake progressers and everyone else think. You think he's been working 12 years this guy with 446 euros a year to give this money and come to Greece. If you don't understand what's going on, look a little bit longer. With 50 euros ticket from Algeria and from Morocco and from Congo, Erdogan takes them to Istanbul and from there they come to Greece. That's the reality! We have an invasion, a real invasion, a peaceful invasion, but an invasion! And it must be prevented!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u13	You've been in 23 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u14	In conclusion, I would like to say, Mr President - unfortunately, the Prime Minister is missing - that today in Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u15	The Prime Minister is listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u16	...forty thousand homeless people are counted, Mr. Kalafatis. Today forty thousand homeless are counted in Greece, Mr Kalafatis! That's what you hear now. Forty thousand homeless! No care for them. You've got them thrown away. Fighting with SYRIZA for the 200 euro heating allowance - it's unbelievable! - when you give 550 euros to every illegal immigrant. So all these behaviors show something. In Samos there were two and twenty - six children, ninety - six of whom are illegal immigrants. Greece's ending! You finish it demographically, finish it politically, finish it as Greek politicians. Understood! Give incentives to the Greeks, to solve the demographics. The Prime Minister's mind - I tell you now - is in the next election, which is coming soon. Because they're talking about double elections. It is not on the issues that we all have to deal with together. That's the accident. And when you have that mind in the next elections, unfortunately the next generations end for both Greeks and Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u17	He has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u18	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u19	Mr. Loverdo, there are no interventions today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u20	What are no interventions, Mr President? Corrections aren't past here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u21	Today we have the speeches of the political leaders. The speech is given by the Secretary-General and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas. Here, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u22	Many times during the Constitutional Review and in this Review House and in the previous, the Proposing Parliament, it was heard by almost all parties that the Constitution is a field of consensus, convergences and that the current political debate must remain outside it. For the parties defending this system, this exploitation system and oathing faith in this anti-grass constitution is indeed so. The constitutional review process, despite the differences of the parties, which in any case have to do with their payments and with the audiences that are addressed and with the various purposes of the moment and others, is a process of convergence and consensus. Besides, they're parties of the same cut. Fighting on individual issues cannot hide the shocks of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAAL in a number of critical articles, regardless of how this will be expressed in votes. Convergences reflecting their overall political strategy. For example, there was a coincidence in the major issue of changing the election of the President of the Republic and of decoupling from elections, despite the fact that you do not find them in how the election is to take place, because that is where micro-party purposes are involved. But what does the overall coincidence express? It expresses your common desire that government stability, the continuity of the state and government should not be disturbed for any reason, i.e. that the exercise of the sovereign policy, whether because of internal contradictions of the system itself or under the pressure of the people's factor, of the people's movement, should not be interrupted. There was also a coincidence on the issue of so-called independent authorities that play a more role as wheeled-up business, but also political interests, several times as precursors of new anti-grassroots choices based on European law, since they cannot, in fact, fulfil the role for which they - supposedly - were constituted. There was a coincidence of opinion among you not to completely abolish the unacceptable law on the liability of Ministers, but which was a constant request, since, despite any improvements, the House still has public powers. And, of course, there was a coincidence in rejecting all the JRC's proposals and, above all, in today's Review House. Proposals by the JRC concerning the extension of the country's popular, democratic, rights and sovereign rights by abolishing the provocative privileges of shipowners, foreign capital, by abolishing even some anachronisms that survive in the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that we have no delusion that there can be a truly democratic progressive constitution within the framework of the present power of capital, the exploitation of human beings, which is the source, the cause of the suffering of the people. From the New Democracy, this attitude was absolutely expected because it simply expresses the conservation of an authentic and traditional party of the bourgeoisie class. Since then, however, the placement of SYRIZA is progressive when it dares not accept the abolition of the anachronistic interdependence and interdependence of the State - Church with their complete separation, which in other countries has taken place decades ago, even a century ago and put it? This, of course, supports and cultivates the anachronistic right-wing priesthood within the conservative New Democracy party - and of course - with its positions, enabling SYRIZA to manipulate radical forces more easily in the name of this so-called left-wing call. Indeed, where and how is SYRIZA's proposal progressively when it comes to getting out of the German constitution articles, such as that on the constructive motion of censure, which actually leads to minority governments and indeed to the bogey in the Constitution? This is a real monument to a sanctuary for you of civil government stability to which you have joined. Even your proposals on social rights or referendums are falsified, since most of your proposals, for example on social rights, are based on the logic of minimum standards, which is nothing more than another self-disputing of your own, of course, and the civil constitution, since it cannot under any circumstances guarantee this real equality. It is a challenge for workers, the populace, the youth that one of these changes is the constitutional introduction of the logic of extreme poverty, the minimum level of living, a guaranteed income, which will only have an obligation to secure the state from there and beyond. You are also putting the issue of dignity unreservedly. But today it is a man's dignity to live on the basis of the potential offered by the season, the potential of science and technology. The logic of the recycling of extreme poverty, of the downward needs and rights, of the poor to pay for the poorer not to create permanent poverty, which may also be potentially threatening, is, of course, neither a proposal that is narrow and exclusively from the New Democracy nor SYRIZA. It is a whole strategy that exists at the level of the European Union and is being launched as the new model of the so-called social state. The challenge is your rhetoric, when you are trying to appear as defenders of the social state, social rights, when your signatures are still fresh in the third memorandum, in a number of measures that have smashed wages and pensions, maintained and increased the rafts, beat the right to strike, gigned sub-funding, sub-selling, shortcomings in hospitals, in schools, in universities. The proposal for referendums is a caricature that can very easily cancel the will of the people at any time, whether you are being closed as minors or as adults in the rooms of your institutional partners and friends, and you are working on plans and memorandas against our people, like what we have known. Like the referendum and what you've done five years ago, krone, you're losing, you're losing. Therefore, the process of constitutional revision is not a neutral and independent process of political controversy. It is simply a question of seeing what the main controversy is, what the real dividing lines between the parties are. And if we approach the constitutional review with these criteria, we will find that the main objective of both the New Democracy, which currently has the parliamentary majority and SYRIZA, which had the majority in the previous House, the Proposing Parliament, is to make all these necessary changes to the Constitution that will shield the urban state and its governments from the potential risks of instability that will certainly arise in the future. Besides, despite the climate of euphoria that you are trying to cultivate to the people, developments disguise you. And what do these developments show? First of all, the figures show a slowdown in the world economy. Secondly, the contradictions between the imperialist states and their international associations are exacerbated. Thirdly, war preparations are intensified, especially in the Middle East, the Eastern Mediterranean. All these developments are sure to affect our country, which is actively involved in these designs and competitions. It is certain that they will create greater or smaller instability problems. We seek to tackle all these possible developments without fear, without fatalism, but to deal with them in terms of movement, organisation, united popular struggle, in terms of conflict with this rotting system. Your stress is to shape the right legal arsenal at the level of the Constitution, not to mention these developments, too, threaten the stability of the bourgeois power. And this legal arsenal is not just exhausted in the Constitution. There are other initiatives by the government, such as the bill on the final state, such as the abolition of asylum and repression, such as the new Criminal Code, with all the reactionary provisions that incorporate, such as the trade union law and so many more. The Constitutional Review is therefore the necessary legal foundation for the state's adjustment to the above conditions, the basis for the storming of new measures to further attack the people's and young people's rights. As far as we're concerned, that's the real content of the question you're all asking. What was the Constitution's endurance during the crisis? Because the question is not whether the Constitution has protected people's rights, because at the same time there are clauses in the same Constitution, loopholes, exceptions, the invoicing of public interest, public order, the interpretation of the Constitution based on participation in the European Union, so that at critical conferences, when the needs of the system require these rights to be literally thrown into the basket of the unpurposed ones. We saw this in the years of the crisis, how, for example, constitutional barbaric class measures were considered, since in many cases, when it was necessary, it was thrown into the basket of unusables and the Constitution itself. As things have evolved, it is a key article in this Review, which deals with changing the election of the President of the Republic, which, as a fundamental objective, is not to have recourse to the polls from a failed election of the President of the Republic by Parliament. And that's how everyone's dead ends. SYRIZA says election by the people, a proposal that even the SYRIZA Members rejected in the previous parliament, because it poses great risks. Such a possible election of the President of the Republic by general elections is the fact that he would objectively assert his role, that is, the role of a single representative institution, even with the limited powers that he currently has under the Constitution. Countries which would, in fact, also open up the debate to increase these powers in the future, because the power given by the general vote to the President of the Republic would objectively open up the debate that this power cannot remain naked, but should be dressed with additional important and substantial responsibilities. A similar proposal was previously made by the New Democracy. What for? Because this proposal - which I repeat, in our view, is a reactionary proposal, however much as it appears to have a democracies - also reflects more general considerations. Problems regarding the transition of the President of the Republic's institution to an institution that is more decisive in ensuring government's stability policy of the system. The New Democracy says 'election by absolute or appropriate majority'. In fact, your original plan predicted an election of the elder or a draw, which you did, of course, withdrew. It is such that your commitment to the anti-grass objective of renowned government stability, which, in order to achieve it, you are resorting to either jokes or dangerous shapes. In our view, the institution of the President of the Republic is already among the hard core of power. The President of the Republic himself is a guardian of the prestige of this kernel and its highest expressor. It is precisely because it plays this role, which is why it is intended to be surrounded by this halo of consensus and you are all looking for - I repeat, of course, in the particular interests of everyone - ways of ensuring this. Unfortunately, however, the President of the Republic in question is obliged to move within a given anti-popular political framework, to ratify anti-popular decisions by the majority of the House, to express the general anti-popular objectives of the sovereign policy both internally and abroad. The ruling class, especially today, does not care primarily whether this person will come from the first or second political space. She cares, above all, that this person observes this context. If, in fact, this face also has the sign of progressive, leftover and goes by saying, so much the better. Of course, the ideological and political role played by the President of the Republic with his institutional presence and with all his speeches. And this role does not change if the President has those or other responsibilities, which are smaller or larger, and this role does not change if elected in one way or another. The substance remains the same. That is why we, the JRC, do not consent to the President of the Republic, not because we focus on the person, which is proposed every time or on the responsibilities that he has, or on the way in which he is elected by the Constitution, but because we do not agree and agree on what the institution expresses in this context of the existing system. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, you are claiming that another objective of the constitutional review is, as you say, the effort to save the price of the urban political system, which has been hit by the years of the crisis, the memoranda, because of the policy implemented by all governments to date. In other words, you are actually seeking make-up. Because anti-grass policy is not a matter of morality in general, but it is a matter of class. It stems from your own system and policies. And there may be honest people as politicians, but who support barbaric, unfair policies. Another thing, of course, is that this system also derives from misassis, corruption, complexity, because it is - how to do so - a system that has as its oxygen only the profit, which is also legally and illegally pursued. So you are limiting the debate on these matters to Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers. And while the request was its complete abolition, you finally keep it, even with some improvements. Because both the proposal of the SYRIZA and, even more so, the proposal of the New Democracy does not touch a key core of this article, which was the delegation to the House of Prosecutors, which, as experience has shown, are not used to make substantial research, but to play various political games. What are you afraid of, really, and do not go ahead with its complete abolition, as the JRC suggests, so that ministers like all citizens are tried, and that each time a government majority decides to prosecute them? The JRC, in both the nomination and the Review House, tabled proposals for a number of constitutional provisions. Some were praised and others rejected in a more deafening way, both by the New Democracy and by SYRIZA. So you rejected the proposals to ban the granting of sovereign rights, with the repeal of paragraph 1 of Article 27 of the Constitution, which allows changes to the limits of the Greek state. You rejected the ban on crossing our country and the parking of foreign military forces, the ban on the granting of bases and other facilities, the ban on the production, acquisition and residence of nuclear and chemical weapons in our country, and the abolition of Article 28 of the Constitution, which recognises the supremacy of international law and international conventions with regard to domestic Greek law. It seems to be a common acceptance of what the Minister of National Defence cynically confessed a few days ago, namely that Greek soldiers will be bleeding again - it says - on the side of American killers, in order to promote interests of transnational and Greek monopolies and finally blood the peoples. You have jointly rejected the proposals for broadening social, trade and civil rights, such as ensuring the confidentiality of personal life and a total ban on the collection and processing of data relating to trade union and political action, such as the extension of the right to strike, the full safeguarding of free collective agreements in the public and private sectors, the safeguarding of the right of trade union expression of the permanent staff of the Armed Forces and their full political and social activity, and the full safeguarding of the sole public nature of education, with a ban on the functioning of private education institutions in education, training and full guarantee of the free provision of education for those in our country. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You have rejected the full safeguarding of the provision of health care services exclusively from the public sector for free, with a ban on any business activity specifically in this crucial area for the people of the neuro-algal sector. You have rejected the safeguarding of the public, exclusively, of the nature of social security. You also rejected the full guarantee of the right to meet and meet those in our country, while abolishing any restrictions on public meetings. You rejected the amendment of Article 18, so that the country's mineral wealth, social goods, public areas in mountainous, Aegean, archaeological sites, etc., cannot in any way be granted to third parties, which are sown for exploitation. You jointly rejected, as a permanent electoral system, the mere unadulterated analogy, because SYRIZA also tabled his proposals, and the bonus for the first party in 10% also maintained and others did not touch. You rejected the proposal to abolish the choice - that is to say, the appointment - of the leadership of justice by the governments concerned, as well as the abolition of the unacceptable Article 48 on the siege situation. Your joint rejection of the proposals of the Communist Party of Greece is an element of your identity on these issues. We did not expect anything different, of course. After all, the value of these proposals is not ultimately judged by the fate that they will have within this urban Parliament, but by whether they will eventually become a matter of struggle and change by the Greek people themselves. The defence and expansion of rights, to be matched by the real, modern needs, require overall deeper changes in the economy, the power and radical change of the current constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, before I summon the President of the Movement of Change, Mr Gennimata, I would like to ask you for a small legal correction. In the draft revision of provisions of the Constitution, which you have before you, in the third column on page 9, that is to say, where Article 54 is, where we have added a new paragraph, we have in the New Democracy's proposal in the last row the wording that ‘Under the law referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, one or more electoral regions may be established’. As Article 54, where we have this proposal to add, uses the verb 'defined' - it says, in other words, Article 54 in the first paragraph that the electoral system and the constituencies are 'determined' by law and says in paragraph 2 that the number of Members of each region is 'determined' by a presidential decree - for the identity of the word we change the verb 'determined' and put the verb 'defined' again. In other words, 'The law of paragraph 1 of this Article may define one or more constituencies' instead of 'they are established'. So this small correction has been made, so that we have the same verb in all the provisions of Article 54. Therefore, after this, Mrs Fotini Gennamata, President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate concludes the top parliamentary process of the Revision of the Constitution, a process of time-consuming value, which requires consensus and responsibility for collective decisions that withstand the time and meet the needs of society and the new era. So, did it finally need this Review to be done? From early in the past difficult years, the Constitution was discussed. Some people possessed it, others made it. Many were those who charged it with responsibility for the outbreak of the crisis itself. They said that it did not guarantee the country's fiscal stability, that it did not withstand the shocks of the crisis. Many saw it as panacea. They believed that in the body of his orders they would find the solution for all sorts of diseases. The Change Movement was the first party to speak clearly about the need to revise the Constitution, which will obviously not solve all the problems and is not responsible for all the sufferings in this place. After ten years of polarization and division, created by the artificial diploma of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, we have indicated the need for the debate on the Review to take place with soberness and in a climate of consensus. We have taken the initiative, from too early to begin the debate in this House - I stress this - and we have tabled a coherent and comprehensive draft of proposals for a revision of the country's Charter, in a climate, unfortunately, of constitutional populism and verbalism. How we arrived at today's sitting is of great interest, from the famous public consultation that tried to circumvent the House and the procedures provided for by the Constitution itself, to the election debate on the Constitution and, of course, today's second Review House. All this, ladies and gentlemen, belongs to history. Today, it doesn't matter yesterday, but tomorrow. The country acquires the fifth edition of the Constitution's post-military constitution. What matters is the contribution of the constitutional text to the country's progress in the future. What is the importance of the Citizen Review? What's he got to do with him? Can it guarantee individual and social rights, political participation, stability and endurance of our political system, the liberal rule of law? In ten years from now, when the debate on the next Review will be understood, we will also give an account for the bold but necessary 2019 review. Is the opportunity gone? It's not all we need, it's all the citizens expect. This Review, however, is not a new 2008, it is not a lost opportunity. The project finally has a positive sign, a short but substantial process. I am also very proud that our party has actively and in a manner essential to the formulation of the final proposals. All of our Members took part in the top parliamentary procedure in a productive way. Of course we did not agree on everything, but that is also the quintourism of democracy. Although we did not have the required number of Members, we contributed with proposals that were responsible and realistic. Of course we cannot say that we are satisfied with the final wording in all the provisions, first and foremost on the issue of the President of the Republic. From the outset, ladies and gentlemen, we have made it clear that we need to disconnect the President's election from the dissolution of this House and here we have made concrete proposals, with two assumptions: Firstly, we disagree with the direct election of the President of the Republic by the people. Given the limited powers of the President, especially after the '86 Review', refuge in the electorate can cause a disastrous situation for the country with constant conflicts and, of course, the unwanted and unnecessarily partisanisation of the institution. We would be able to see candidate presidents going up to the balconies and ask for the people's vote by representing specific parties. On the other hand, it is a downgrading of the institution to vote by an absolute or relevant majority. We said not to dismantle the House, but not to relax the institution. It is not a union election nor can it be accepted that we have a head of state elected by fewer votes than a simple law needs. We believe - and we have said this in every tone - that it is appropriate to extend the term of office of the President to the next elections, even if they do not come after at least a hundred and a half Members of Parliament are present. Unfortunately, it is clear that the issue of the election of the President of the Republic was dealt with by the majority in fear of the dissolution of this House. The proposals of the majority and the Officerial Representation result in a different path to the same result, a party-controlled President of the Republic. I would remind you that Mr Tsipras, with his vote in the previous House, has given Mr Mitsotakis the opportunity today to formulate the final provision and vote only with his own majority. As we have said many times, he is his best political sponsor. We are not going to consent to this proposal that undermines the prestige and supra-party mission of the supra-party ruler or, of course, to solutions which threaten to change the nature of our presiding civilisation. I come to the notorious Article 86 on criminal liability for the members of the government. Firstly, we agree with unreservedly on the revision of the article, so that we can end with an issue that has been afflicting our political system for many years and undermining its credibility in the eyes of the citizens. We are implementing what we have asked for with our proposals from the first time. Today the demagogic exploitation of Article 86 ends. We agree on the abolition of time-limits, i.e. early limitations, so as to apply to the offences of the ministers as to every Greek citizen, a decisive step in our political system. We dissolve the myths and conspiracy stories that have developed around this issue in particular at the time of the crisis. Now, as far as Mr Tsipras' communication tricks are concerned, I will not deal with just because he knows that retrospective interpretations do not have any power, but because we all understand that he is attempting desperate diversions in relation to research, which he has already started to reveal in his courtyard. It is indeed a challenge that this proposal should come from a party whose executives and ministers have been hiding many times in recent years behind the protection of Article 86. For Rule 62 and parliamentary immunity: we want to limit immunity. Protection should be strictly applied only to cases of political persecution and not to any common criminal offence. In Rule 54, other corrections should have announced today and we have told you to all tons during the debate. Article 54 has gained a central place in the debate after the consensus, which appears to exist in relation to the vote of foreigners. We understand the need to revise it in order to ensure the two-member parliamentarians, but it can simply provide for the possibility of restrictions by law. It is wrong that restrictions should be reflected in the constitutional provision. We are in favour of revising the provision with this spirit and looking at the common legislation that should follow in the next few years to finally bring about the exercise of the electoral right by the Greeks, who live abroad, the children of the crisis, the Brain Drain, the dynamic Greek communities abroad, the Hellenism Valley on every continent. We have gone a long way, it is true, with mutual retreat. We are now a step away from an unprecedented Greek occasion: a provision of the Constitution and a common law with absolute acceptance by our Parliament. Foreigners registered on lists must participate equally, with an equivalent vote in the national elections. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] But there is a final objective - we do not abandon it - the schizophrenic vote and the wider involvement. That is why, Prime Minister, and the restrictions should not be in the Constitution. It's wrong. You have time to see it again. Was it all necessary, ladies and gentlemen? Yeah. But was that enough? Oh, no. Indeed, under the responsibility of the previous House, the Review failed to respond to key demands of society and of citizens for the new age coming. He disproved of the modern world challenges. Despite our proposals, no explicit reference was added to the Constitution to the state's obligation to take action to combat climate change and to protect biodiversity. Article 24 shall remain out of review. The Constitution will provide for nothing to ensure human rights and a fair distribution of the wealth produced in the modern environment of technological development and artificial intelligence applications. And of course we will not even discuss higher education this time, the establishment of non-governmental universities, and the upgrading of the central pillar of the public university. We have been trapped in an anachronistic reading of things, blindly denying any change, and I really wonder how this profound conservative choice can be forged as a progressive educational policy. Don't we see what's going on around us? As we have also not discussed justice. We have tabled a framework of proposals for the modernisation of the judicial system and for ensuring the independence of its officials with transparency and evaluation. It wasn't accepted. We have not talked about controlling the constitutionality of laws, and of course we have not even discussed the process of selecting the leadership of justice with an active involvement of the House. We have done nothing, unfortunately - and I stress it - once again for self-government and its effective administrative and financial emancipation by the central state. Also, Parliament has not shown the courage to deal with its own house, to tighten up the framework for transparency and control over the parties' finances, to eliminate the unnecessary amendments, to modernise its legislative and parliamentary control work, to introduce increased majorities for the framework laws relating to major issues, such as strategic investments, and to protect its functioning from abuse of the national interest, used as a tool to dissolve it, depending on the design of the government in question. A very serious issue, which, unfortunately, is still not solved. However, I would particularly like to focus on the fact that an important step is being taken, and this step is about adopting our own proposal for the introduction of the popular legislative initiative. This is a modern form of direct democracy, which stimulates citizens' participation in politics. As very important and hopeful is that our consistent proposal for the constitutionalisation of minimum guaranteed income, a major reform, bearing the PASOK seal, has been accepted since 2012. It is the minimum sign of writing in the Constitutional Charter for the preservation of a decent standard of living for every citizen and for the absolute access of all to social goods. Ladies and gentlemen, this review, despite its failures and discomfort, is the response of the political system to the challenges of the new era. If that answer is convincing, effective, sustainable, it is now left to prove itself. But she's not alone enough. Revision of the Constitution is necessary, but not sufficient. Yes, it is of paramount importance for the functioning of our culture and the safeguarding of our rights. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not live under legal and constitutional conditions. Life is out there, in society, in the economy, in the new generation, in the world of work and production, in the many communities of the Greeks, on the forefront of the refugee, where our humanism is being tested. The fight for a better tomorrow, then, goes on. It is all our duty to guarantee and implement what we have today. Acting equality, equality, freedom. Rebuild, slowly but firmly, citizens' confidence in politics. To work for greater participation, for the return of young people to the public, for social justice and solidarity, for a more broad, more tolerable and more open democracy, not for the few, not just for the many, but for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u25	Mr Alexis Tsipras, President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, is being called on in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in July 2016 we took the initiative, as a majority parliamentary then, to initiate the process of Constitutional Review by proposing a public consultation and an extensive public dialogue with citizens and with civil society, so that all parties, political forces, will be aware of the proposals, anguishs, the views of civil society before the reform process in Parliament begins. The starting point for our initiative was a fundamental assumption, with which, of course, there is an equally fundamental disagreement between our groups. Our admission is that the Constitution belongs primarily to the citizens, to all citizens, so the reason for the Constitution should not be left to experts and technocrats alone. Of course, they will too, but not only will they. Of course, not just the political and economic elites, but all the citizens, the whole of the people. The reactions to this initiative then by the parties, which we call 'the parties to the old political system', I believe that it was not just about an institutional impulse - let me express - but, above all, it was also a fear, that the political forces, who have just sold it from post-multiple, would lose control of the Constitution for the first time. The same political forces which have put Article 86 in the Constitution to ensure the impunity of their officials who have been in government positions. The same political forces, who have placed the right to retire in the Constitution to restrict the right to strike. The same political forces which have the following view of the functioning of democracy: to vote once in four years and then to watch an unowned person decide on his behalf. So since a long and fertile consultation process was preceded at every end of Greece, we tabled our proposal in November 2018. The proposal for review we have tabled reflects a comprehensive plan for the Constitution and the institutions, a plan for a "new Migration", as we called it, for a Greece, which finally leaves the weights of the 20th century and is finally entering, even late in the 21st century, a plan that puts before the citizens and the Greek people. Our plan has three pillars. The first pillar is the democratisation of the civil society. The second is the widening of public participation and social and individual rights. The third is the restoration of the credibility of policy. When we tabled our proposal, we were fully aware that we were taking a risk. Our group did not even have an absolute majority in this House and, of course, we were well aware that it would be extremely difficult to ensure for our proposals in the proposed House the required increased majority of eighty-eight Members, either in the nomination or in the Revision House. But we also knew very well that society cannot wait any longer, because in particular the demand for the resolution of the political system was and is more than a mature demand. It's an urgent request, an urgent request. That's why we didn't hesitate to take this political risk. We have decided to initiate the review process, without micro-political calculations and without regularization, with a view to society and the political system. Our plan, obviously, will not be implemented. Nevertheless, we do not regret that we have opened this procedure. We do not regret that we have laid the foundations of the debate in Greek society on the need for a progressive revision of the Constitution and a constitutional modernisation of our country. After all, first of all in society and the citizens, we have addressed and tabled a comprehensive and coherent plan for the Constitution and institutions, for which we are proud. It is a project that we are sure that if we put it in the citizens' judgement, the large majority would have adopted it. Against our plan, the other side, the conservative party, the New Democracy party, what did it have against? What was her plan? The counter-proposal of the New Democracy was an awkward and relentless stirring of scorpions. It was a monument of verbalism, with no axes and a central idea, no charisma and no ballast. We have shown and proved that we have a plan, you may disagree with that. On the contrary, the New Democracy has demonstrated that, in the Constitution at least, it is moving without compass and without a plan. I don't have to say much to prove that. A simple comparison of the proposal submitted by the New Democracy for the Revision of the Constitution in 2014, with the proposal it tabled in 2018, is enough for the truth. These are two completely different texts. Your proposal in 2014, as much as we disagreed with it, had at least one elementary structure and an elementary central logic. The 2018 proposal seems to be a cigar of diverse and incoherent regulations, which finally seems to be the only reason that has been proposed, beyond the current political purposes, is to cover up the one and only purpose to which the proposal seeks, which is the constitutionalisation of neoliberalism in education and the environment, with provisions that directly lead to the commercialisation of education and provisions that directly lead to the deterioration of the protection of the environment. Furthermore, what we have achieved in our own proposal is to prove that we are a political force of constitutional and institutional responsibility. Of course, our proposal - we do not hide that - has a left-hand and progressive mark. However, individual interventions that constitute it involve the element of consensus and compromise, as required in a revision process. We are not proposing, as the New Democracy does, the constitutionalisation of our political programme. We propose mature demands from Greek society and even demands that have formed a majority dynamic in public opinion. I must say that this in some cases also displeased our narrow party audience, for example in our proposal for Article 3, which we proposed a mild rationalisation rather than a radical break-up of State and Church relations. But this, like all our proposals, has become aware that the Constitution always represents a certain correlation between the socio-political forces, which we cannot exceed. How consensual and synthetic our proposal was, moreover, also the fact that we even adopted proposals made in 2014 by the New Democracy, such as the New Democracy's proposal that the President of the Republic should be elected after successive votes in Parliament, but always with an increased majority, and alternatively - your proposal was - by direct elections by the people or by the proposal - also yours - the establishment of a permanent electoral system. The oxymoor, however, is today that in these two proposals, which are proposals which are found, I repeat, in your package for the 2014 Review, it is based almost the main part of your war and your confrontation with our proposals, to SYRIZA, today. This proves your political poverty, but also your opportuneness, since not only do you refuse to vote for your proposals, but you are bailing against them with passion. We have also demonstrated our responsible and synthetic attitude in the work of the House proposed - and I am very surprised to see today that even that you are giving up - when, contrary to the position of today's majority, we have automatically accepted a number of proposals from the then opposition, without any obligation to do so, to which we have given the opportunity today to be among the revised provisions. I hope, Mr President, that you will remember that the proposal you have brought, as a mere Member of Parliament, to Article 96 and military justice, is now in the revised provisions only because it was adopted by the SYRIZA Members in the House proposed. I hope, ladies and gentlemen of today's majority, that you also remember that the proposal that you brought about Article 68 and the committees of inquiry is now under the revised provisions because it was accepted by the members of the SYRIZA to the proposing parliament. The same as for the settlement of the transitional provisions of the Constitution in Articles 112 to 119. So we had no problem adopting these proposals in the previous House and we have no problem today recognising that these are symbols of your own party in the Constitutional Review. But, I'm sorry to say, your contribution stops there. Anything else that the Constitutional Review has achieved today, even those few that you will leave, is due to our own initiative of SYRIZA. I will start with Article 86, because I think it is the top issue in civil society, in citizens. The Left had to come for the first time with a parliamentary majority to start a revision of this article on the criminal liability of the ministers. In the past forty years, as New Democracy and PASOK have been changing to power, we have not seen any relevant initiative. On the contrary, in 2001 we saw a bad law constitutionalized, passed into the country's constitution and cannot change. And you did this because you could undisturbed then switch to the government headquarters without stress about criminal liability. I think that here the political system as a whole should also make a deep assessment, because this is one of the causes that led us to bankruptcy. Of course, in the 2008 Review, the two sovereign parties at that time, together you seem to have forgotten about reviewing Article 86. And not to talk about the, supposedly, modernisation review of 2001, because not only did you then go through a lousy law in the Constitution, but you also argued that you were broadening the deadline. In fact, what you did was raise it for a year, but create impossible to change a law, which is a very heavy shadow in the political system and in the civil relationship with politics. I'll say it in a few words. There is this sense of injustice, if any Greek citizen commits a crime, this is recorded in fifteen and twenty years. If the "purpose-born" Ministers do so, it shall be recorded at the end of the second session of the next Parliament, i.e. not more than two years after the election or if elections are held, as took place in 2015, within a short period of time, immediately, in the semester. So SYRIZA had to come in and propose the abolition and this was done. And I would like to point out that our proposal here is pure and crystal. We call it self-evident. We say that the offences of the Ministers must be recorded as all other Greeks after five, fifteen or twenty years, as the law provides for everyone, not specific limitations. And today, you still have - I will say an expression that you may say is heavy - the courage not toward us, but to the Greek citizens, to come and say to us: 'You know, from now on. But if a Minister was bribeed, if a Minister got a plea before 2015 he will not be prosecuted, because his offences go under the old rules and have been dropped.” You tell us in a few words that any actions of bribery that were made before 2015 must be filed. They must stop being investigated by justice. That is why we in the previous procedure of the proposed Parliament did not only bring about the revision of Rule 86, but also a statement of clarification, feeling that it would benefit from the approval of a large majority. In fact, there was no controversy about this in the public debate during the debate that we are badly bringing it. And we brought it to it to be clear that no privileged limitations for Ministers will exist not only for offences committed by ministers since the Review, but also for bribes that have taken place in the past, so that justice will not stop the investigations in 2015, but will be able to go back in 2014, in 2012, in 2010, in 2007, until the time of limitation is reached, of the normal limitation that applies to all Greeks and not of this deletion that you made in the Constitution in 2001. And then, in the mosquitos, you have avoided voting without opening up this clarification and today you are continuing to avoid and refuse to vote on it. And I am looking to find out what the argument is on which you base this refusal, which the Greek people do not understand. You, however, are trying to create a legal argument in order to obviously keep your back. You are telling us that there is no interpretation of Article 86. We answer: Of course there is an interpretative discernment. You know that. That is why we are proposing this statement. Explanatory statement means an authentic interpretation of the Constitution. Authentic interpretation of the Constitution, only the Revision House does. What better chance, then, is there as a Review House and a political system as a whole to give a clear message? The second argument I have heard is that there cannot be retroactiveness to a criminal order. We answer: What retrospectiveness do you say? Other amendment of a provision, other authentic interpretation of the provision. A new criminal rule is not introduced here. And you know what? Our proposal at the end of the day - to make it clear - is clear. But it is clear for the simple reason that we too are clear! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As long as we exercise power, our government presence is not shattered by any suspicion of scandal, and on the contrary your attitude today is not only clean, but sad and shadowy. You are looking - I repeat - to find legal arguments and excuses. Why? Because, respectively, your country’s rule was shadowy and sad. That's why the place was led to bankruptcy. Really, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, of the New Democracy and of KINAL, do you know what the question is that will be on the people's lips after that refusal? What exactly are you afraid of? That's the question. Are you afraid of preconceived officials? That will be the question that will be raised. Or do you have any doubts - in any case, if you are not afraid - about the innocence of your ministers in your governments? In any case, I do not want to exhaust my intervention on this matter. I think the Greek people have already come out and will still draw their conclusions. I come in a number of critical remarks. There are a number of proposals that we made in the previous House, which I believe the average citizen could assume of itself that they would find a great deal of consensus, as would the proposal for an interpretation declaration under Rule 86, but now you refuse to support, in other words, refuse to enter the Constitution. And here we are in front of what the constitutionalists call a confirmatory function of the Review. In other words, when it is proposed that a provision should be revised, but this should not be revised in the end, the provision should in fact be postponed, relegated. It's like it's being voted and reapproved. He's getting a new life and a new legitimisation. It is not a provision that was passed forty-five years ago by some people who then belonged to other generations and to previous worlds. It is, however, a provision that is actually rebaptised today under modern conditions. Do you want to see some of the provisions that, in fact, they are revoking, re-confirming that the New Democracy refuses to vote for their revision, as proposed by SYRIZA? So let's go. We have proposed that Article 3(1) should be abolished not only but also Article 3(3). What does paragraph 3 say? He says it is forbidden - this word uses the article - the translation of the Bible without prior permission. And I wonder what century the country lives in. Are we in the 21st century, or are we left in the 1901 Evangelicals, which were the reason for this provision entering the 1911 Constitution? Where are we to ratify such provisions while they have been proposed to abolish them? Are we in Europe of fundamental rights and the European Convention, or are we somewhere else? Did the Enlightenment pass this way, or did it not touch? And Mr Mitsotakis, I sincerely also address you on this matter, because you are, in your statement, a liberal. You often declare yourself progressive, but I don't take it that far, I live in liberals. Do you want the country's Constitution to prohibit publishing books? Do you want prior permission to translate a book? Yeah, it's a sacred book. But that's your thing? You want this? Can you believe it? If you believe it, say you believe it. I have no objections. You know, no one's what it says after all. It's what he's doing. How liberal and modernist can you be, Mr Mitsotakis, and you gentlemen of the New Democracy when denying paragraph 3 of Article 3? Because, all right, I understand - I disagree with you directly - the choice of Members of the New Democracy not to want the first paragraph of Article 3 to be revised on relations between the Church - State. Although I disagree, I understand that you have a matter not to displease what is called your electoral clientele. I respect it, even though I think that's what you're doing. You are wrong, because I believe that much of society and much of what is called the church's electoral clientele - much more of what you think - and wants modernization, rationalisation of relations between State and Church. But let go of paragraph 1. Why not, however, paragraph 3? I'm waiting for an answer. Let's go down. Apart from confirming the function of the Review, constitutionalists also speak of the so-called opposition argument. What does that mean? That if something is proposed to enter the Constitution, but eventually the Review House rejects it, one can argue that Parliament rejected it because he wanted exactly the opposite. I do not share that, but I say it can happen. So let's see some of our proposals that New Democracy rejects: The New Democracy rejects the proposal to introduce a ban on discrimination on grounds of sex or sexual orientation into the Constitution. It has been proposed, but you liberals and progressives reject it with praise. The New Democracy also rejects the proposal that the principle of equal pay for equal work, irrespective of age, should be introduced into the Constitution. It was proposed, but you reject it. It could therefore be argued that, if proposed, but rejected, this means that the Constitution allows us to bring back the underpaid wage or to make other discrimination, even worse, not only because of age, but also because of sex or sexual orientation. I do not accept this, but on the basis of this argument, the argument against it is what you do, if you do not know it, with your refusal to take two speeches, which I believe would find the vast majority of Greek society in agreement. But you're afraid. You are afraid that all your political attitude, and in the Constitution, is about the balances you want to keep within your party. I should like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with what I consider to be the last example of anticipation on the part of the New Democracy, but also of a fall in institutionalism. I said this before, it concerns your formal proposal for the Review of the 2014 Constitution, for the election of the President of the Republic and your attitude today. I want to read to you what you proposed in 2014 for the election of the President of the Republic. You said that the President should either be elected by unrestricted repetition of this third majority, of course with the same majority - I would point out the last sentence - a majority of eighty Members - or by appealing to the electorate to elect a President of the Republic directly from that. You said that. A variant of this proposal is what we have brought, that is to say, one semester, until a majority of eighty Members are gathered, and if they do not, then only then direct election by the people. And in any case, the President retains the high legitimacy and the prestige that is required to play his institutional role, because either he has been elected intergrouply, he will have - let me say - 'extorted' the consensus, if there is no agreement, if it cannot be created, or it will have been directly elected by the citizens. What is the New Democracy proposal today? The proposal from the New Democracy - because what KINAL is proposing is clear - I could understand it, but what is being proposed by the New Democracy, I am sorry, but it is unthinkable. What do you suggest? Up to five votes to elect a president. In the first and second, there are two hundred MPs. Third, a hundred eighty. In the fourth, a hundred and fifty, one: party president! And in the last vote, there is a majority of them: the President of the ECJ! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But is that possible? Honestly, will you vote today for such a provision? Honestly, I feel that by voting for such a provision, not only do you not respect the institution, the process, but you do not respect your past, your paradox, your history, the history of your extradition. When did the New Democracy express such an opinion about a minority president? So many revisions have been made. Could Constantine Karamanlis and Constantine Chatsos, when they made the 1975 Constitution, imagine that he has a place in our minority city? Would Karamanlis and Chachos ever accept being Presidents - who did - if they knew that if they were to be elected, the majority required to approve a TEC? And really, Mr Mitsotakis and other colleagues of the New Democracy that you signed the 2014 Review proposal, so much value do you give your signature? What you signed back then, today you come here and argue about exactly the opposite? Unless you had no counsellor at that time, Mr. Gerapitris, so you signed, and now you have discovered Mecca of Constitutional Law and you have another perception of things. But honestly, I feel that here you are committing a great foul and I do not think I need to say a lot about this proposal, nor that it is unconstitutional, nor that it rejects the presiding nature of the constitution and the regulatory role of the President of the Republic, who is acting with the majority or even the minority who has elected it. I will only say that if this proposal passes, it will remain a black stigma in the history of our culture but also in the history of your own party. So choose with your vote today. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the sole responsibility of the majority Members, the process that we, with a vision of constitutional modernisation, started before 2016, but within the procedure in the House a year ago, the revision process is very afraid of ending up with a miserable and clandestine review. If you do not insist to the end and to the refusal to adopt the 86 interpretative statement and the unthinkable proposal for a 36-member president, then we will not simply have in the eyes of Greek society a crazed review, but also a review of parody, which not only does not adopt any of the urgent demands of Greek society, but also creates further problems, leaving stigmas to the political system. Your resignation and you personally, Mr Mitsotakis, will, if you insist, have the sad privilege of being charged, after the 2008 parody review - you ruled and then - and a second failed Constitutional review. You will remain in history as the fact that it has denied even the least, elementary, self-evident for the constitutional modernisation of the country in order to satisfy its internal contradictions and demands of the current juncture, such as fear of the 'NOVARTIS' investigation, and that is why you insist on the refusal of the interpretative declaration and the contradictions within you to elect a President of the Republic by a large majority. That is why you are leading to this humiliation of the institutional process, but also the prestige of the institution. The main thing, however, is that your decision today will, if you like, extend the shadows and the crisis between the citizens and the political system. But I believe that the people are seeing, judging and remembering and that is why I decided to close my speech, Mr President, positively, with our positive proposals on the Constitution that are rejected today, but it will be the proposals concerning the constitution of the future of the country, which you are now blocking with your refusal, but you are not canceling them, you are simply postponing them. Because no matter how much you wish to prey on the road forward, you will not succeed in the end. Progress will sooner or later, as always, beat maintenance and progress are our proposals to extend individual and social rights directly of interest to citizens. We therefore propose that you, too, refuse to establish the political oath as the sole type of oath for all state officials and civil servants, from the first citizen of the country to the last civil servant. We propose that you, too, deny that within Greek territory no one should ever suffer discrimination and discrimination again because of their sex, or because of their gender identity, or because of their sexual orientation to finally give the message that Greek society is open, is tolerable, is light, is colorful and is not expressing it black and dark. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We also propose that you refuse to guarantee a decent standard of living for all not in the form of a poverty benefit, but above all by ensuring normal social services for all and supplementing income support, of course, where they are needed. We also propose that you refuse universal access to the National Health System, that is to say, that we have legislated and you are now slowly falling. We also want to ensure in the Constitution that it does not jeopardise your neoliberal and anti-social obsessions. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We also propose that you refuse the guarantee of the public redistributive social security system of universal coverage, so that we can permanently rule out any thoughts of transferring the insurance system to unharmed insurance companies and funds, which deprive savings and sweat of the ordinary world to give provocative bonuses to Golden Boys and when the time comes and "heavy cannon" to leave retired people on the road. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We also propose that basic social goods, such as water and electricity, should remain under public control to be provided to all citizens, so that they will never be cut off again on water or electricity to any citizen. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We also propose that you refuse to guarantee the right of the trade unions to resort unilaterally to arbitration so that they never again abolish the right to arbitration as your governments disqualified it and forced even the Council of State to judge your law unconstitutional. We also propose that you refuse to make sure that the minimum wage is fixed only by collective agreements and not by a legal or ministerial decision, as your own governments have legislated to establish hunger wages. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We also suggest that you refuse to introduce equal pay for equal work regardless of age discrimination so that this reproach of the underpaid wage, which is your reproach, is never repeated, you have legislated for us to abolish it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We also propose that you also refuse to ban the abuse of the qualification as a strike mechanism in order to ensure that the unprecedented attack by your trade union movement on your governments is never repeated again, so that we never again live up to the shame of banning the right of strike on seafarers, on transport workers, on middle-education teachers. That is what we propose and you refuse. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But we are proud of our proposals, despite the fact that they are being rejected today. You, Mr Mitsotakis, do not know if you can say the same, if you are proud of what your proposition proposes during the constitutional revision. We are sure that the citizens, the Greek people, will reward our consistency and give us the opportunity, will give again the opportunity to the progressive party of the place to begin and complete the next Review. To implement this plan of the progressive modernisation of our constitution. We must at last reduce the burdens of the past, broaden democracy, rights, popular participation and restore the credibility of policy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I repeat, the story will sooner or later justify us because it goes forward. The story with what you choose to do in the Review, Mr Mitsotakis, no matter what result I think he has already condemned you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u27	Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u28	Mr Tsipras, your proposals are not today rejected by the parliamentary majority of the New Democracy. The Greek people rejected them in the elections on 7 July. That is why the popular verdict between the two phases of the Constitutional Review is mediated. It was the object of the elections and the constitutional review, Mr. Tsipras. And if you had the courage to endorse my proposal, in order to put an increased range of provisions in the Greek people' s judgement, we would have the opportunity to explain to the Greek people why the elections of 7 July also concerned constitutional revision. You didn't, because you obviously knew what the result was. We will be very late, Mr Tsipras, to have another review procedure. Because the next Review, as you well know, can only be completed if it actually takes place a decade. Therefore, it is an opportunity today, as this debate is being completed, to make a as calm as possible assessment of exactly what happened during this process. Because everyone has said so, the revision of the Constitution is the most important moment in every parliament. Not all Members have the opportunity to participate in this process. Many Members have passed the parliamentary seats without being given the opportunity to take part in this debate. Today, a process is being completed, which started in Parliament - because the Parliament is a natural area of the review process - a year ago and tomorrow the country will have a new Constitution, the 2019 Constitution. It will bear the seal of today's parliamentary majority, but it will also be a product of cross-party consensus, as the Constitution itself demands. The overall balance sheet, despite the individual objections, doubts, concerns - I shall refer to them below - is positive. I regard this as another major step towards democracy and parliamentarianism. I cannot comment, Mr Tsipras, that the tone of your speech was out of the climate of the general debate and of the debate, which took place at the level of party leaders in the House - you have not heard any political leader, you have only come to make your speech and listen to me - but it was out of the climate, in relation to the debate that took place in the committee. At the stage of the procedure, I must point out that for a relatively small number of provisions, some eighty hours of rich dialogue have taken place. A hundred and sixty-eight MP interventions from all the wings. And this controversy of arguments proved to be fruitful. I would once again like to forgive the President of the Commission, Mr Euripidis Stylianides and the rapporteur-General, Mr Kostas Javara, but also all the rapporteurs for counter-population. They faced this process, each with their own eyes, from their own perspective, with the seriousness that is being imposed. As we were committed, we approached the constitutional review in a different way from that of SYRIZA in the previous period. The review process began in its natural space, in the parliament and not as a mass party figurine in its yard. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Fortunately, what your rapporteur said, the rhetoric of a constituent assembly, like the announcements of a so-called constitutional referendum, have been forgotten. They proved unscientific, but also demagogic manoeuvres. Secondly, Parliament has now worked productively over time. Why has he been inactive for thirty and a half months, Mr. Tsipras? To remember the Constitutional Review in advance just before the previous elections? It is a question you did not answer. The majority, unlike what you claimed, did not ignore the position of the minority and, in its revised composition, Parliament has examined the provisions which have come to it from the nomination parliament. Besides, he didn't have a chance to do anything different. I would remind you that there were provisions - such as Rule 16 - which could not be discussed in the Review House, because very simply, they did not concentrate the required majority in the House. The conclusion is, therefore, that the rules have returned. The review procedure was followed and the steps which the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament themselves were our guide. The process sparked the necessary productive dialogue between the political forces. By a majority and with few exceptions it has avoided turning into a cheap micro-party tool. At the same time, however, different concepts in the field of the substance, namely the content of the recommendations for the new Constitution, have been embodied. I would remind you that in the previous House, the broad and brave proposal for a New Democracy Review, which you have despised to describe as a stitching of provisions, was based on four axes. In response to the major challenges of the twentieth century, it provided for the establishment of private universities and horizontal environmental protection, which would integrate the private economic initiative and the development of the country into a modern environmental balance. In fact, Mr Tsipras, I had asked you in the previous House too: did you not consider a reference to the Constitution to tackle climate change necessary? Mrs. Gennimata told you. But you did not think that Article 24 had to be reviewed. You, who are a friend of the environment, felt we were covered by an article that was written - and was very innovative for his time - in 1975. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In search of greater parliamentary function and improved legislative work, we called for a more valid scrutiny of the constitutionality of the laws, a symmetrical extension of the powers of the President of the Republic, but above all for the establishment of stable electoral circles. By calling for a flexible state, fiscal consistency, but also economic development, we have proposed a wide range of provisions from public policy rules and resources to self-government, to conditions of safe investment environment and a ban on retroactive taxation. Finally, by strengthening the independence of justice we proposed - we were not alone and other parties agreed with this proposal - the disconnection of the choice of the highest judges by the government, while, for greater speed in the administration of justice, we qualified for specific judicial panels on important cases. As you will remember, contrary to the above, SYRIZA has insisted on a different direction, in our view, with unnecessary constitutional verbalism, as almost all the issues that you have raised are already covered by the established case-law of the courts, for rights, which are already guaranteed, with dangerous provisions of party and observance, such as the introduction of the mere proportional system of permanent elections. Where did you hear, Mr Tsipras, that we have ever proposed a mere proportional system? Who's telling you this? Haven't you even read the New Democracy proposal? Don't you know our consistent opposition to simply proportional? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is another constitutional guarantee of a stable electoral system and another thing that you said, that we have proposed simply proportionally as a system. But don't you have some social logic, Mr. Tsipras? Well, you're being written by some of the speeches. But put your own rating judgment on what you say, because sometimes when other scholars infiltrate, you may be subject to such mistakes. However, it has an interest: While we all recognise in this Chamber that a number of important institutional arrhythmias have emerged in the post-Culture process, your proposal - I would like to remind you, it has only historical value - did not include a word for public administration, a word for education, a word for justice, a word for the economy, a word for the environment. The result was that of the hundred and fifty-four proposals for changes, which were originally put forward, the Proposing House brought for revision only forty - and that, of course, was your decision - which, in principle, were concerned either with proposals from the previous parliamentary majority or with the abolition of obsolete provisions. This is how it is obvious that today's Dedicated Opposition, when it spoke of Revision, was not intended to modernise the Constitution, but to cancel for a decade a radical change, a "neo-liberal" Review, which would open the door to private universities. After all, these were the words of the cynical confession of today's rapporteur for Minority, Mr Katrugalos. You are now adding, without a trace of self-criticism, that this Review, which you yourself have limited as a previous parliamentary majority, you have shortened it by your own decision, is - it says - a juicy revision. Once again, you are inferior to the circumstances and smaller before the historic opportunity for the country. Despite this limited legacy, however, this Review House has reached agreement on nine crucial chapters of our constitutional charter. Of the nine provisions, which will ultimately be revised, the two were proposals made by the New Democracy in the previous Parliament. The first relates to the equivalence of the military with the ordinary judges, in order to ensure their full independence, and the second provides Parliament's minority with the opportunity to set up committees of inquiry. I would particularly like to insist on this second provision. I think it's important for the city. It finally restores the Committee of Inquiry as a genuine instrument of parliamentary scrutiny, as was the case in 1975 by the editorial legislator. Unfortunately, in the course of time, the interpretation given around these committees was that it could only be constituted by the majority. Thus, from an institution of time-consuming control by the Opposition, it reached an easy weapon of occasional government majorities against their opponents. I would also point out that we are bringing this provision in, while we have self-reliance in this House, which, of course, also confirms our commitment to the Constitution, regardless of provisional party benefits. I also consider our proposal for the constitutionalisation of minimum guaranteed income to be important. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is a firm commitment that the state will see to it that every citizen lives. So the question is reversed, Mr Tsipras. Why do you not today vote in favour of our proposal on minimum guaranteed income? I hope, finally, that you do, from the moment that we both agree that it is a necessary, the only effective tool, so that we can deal effectively with cases of extreme poverty. I hope and hope, in the end, that the logic and critical article will be voted on by a large majority. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I continue with the reduction of the privileges of Members of Parliament and of the Ministers, which are contained in provisions, which are indeed mature to be revised. We are proposing to limit the immunity of Members, only in acts relating to their political action and the abolition of the deadline for the responsibility of the ministers, so that Parliament can prosecute within the time limits of the common censure for any offence. In other words, the politician will have the same attitude as every citizen. Let us finally applaud the fact that Article 86 is changing with the cross-party support of the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I consider the provision in Rule 54 to be a separate chapter, which facilitates the exercise of the right of vote by non-resident voters. It is an initiative, for which we must be proud, both of the substance and of the way in which we consulted the other parties. I said from the outset that the New Democracy's will was to make it possible for this right also to be guaranteed constitutionally for Greeks who are resident permanently outside the borders. So, although we believe - and we did not hide it - that all Greeks abroad, who are Greek citizens, must vote on the electoral lists, without preconditions and - why not? - through the letter vote, we seemed flexible. We made concessions and responded with responsibility in the direction of consensus, which the Constitution itself imposes on us. Because we must not forget that the Constitution stipulates that, in order for this provision to be changed, there are two hundred Members who need to be changed. We were therefore obliged to make concessions to what we thought was right, so that we could finally achieve a great institutional cut and close a wound that has been open for forty-five years. Our homeland needs, as much as ever, global Hellenism. It is necessary for the children who have left the years of the crisis, but also for the older, who, although they are crossing the border in the name of Greece, have nothing to say about what is happening within Greece. Any evasion is an insult, but it also deprives the country itself of power and influence. Today, then, we are taking the first step. This step will become a leap, because the Greeks everywhere in the world are always magnifying. The New Democracy, following the vote on the relevant addition to Article 54, will immediately submit to a public consultation with a view to having been passed before the end of the year, the bill concerned. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There were too many discussions in the relevant ministry with representatives of the parties. As I told you, we made every effort to find a common place. We have come to a proposal, which I consider to be sufficiently satisfactory, and which is why we recommend it. I hope and hope, as I have said many times, that bill - at least this bill - can only be this bill that will be passed by this Chamber by three hundred MPs! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As far as the next provision is concerned, which is to be reviewed, I do not have much to say. Experience has shown that there is often a great weakness in setting up independent authorities from the selected persons. Our proposal therefore limits the required majority, from 4/5 to 3/5, of the Members of the Conference of Presidents. It provides for the extension of the term of office of the existing members for as long as it is not possible to re-establish them, in order to ensure their uninterrupted and legitimate functioning. It may sound like an intervention with a technocratic and functional character. However, it has a substantial impact, because it facilitates the action of the independent authorities, which are now an integral part of every modern democracy. Its content is therefore extremely political. With a consensus our group has incorporated in its final proposal and the popular legislative initiative proposed by the Opposition. We have agreed that the signatures of five hundred thousand citizens, with the right to vote, should lead to proposals which will be discussed in this House. Of course, a process such as this, which at first reading seems open to popular participation, also poses risks - it may be risky - for representative democracy. That is why we are limiting the number of such proposals to two per parliamentary term and we are putting some of them absolutely - I appreciate - self-evident limits so that they do not concern issues such as national defence, fiscal policy and foreign policy. We have, however, shown, by adopting this proposal, that we should make use of this long process and incorporate proposals, which we consider are moving in the right direction and which were not at the core of our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we have finally the provision that has caused the greatest debate in this Chamber, the change in the way the President of the Republic is elected. This is a critical provision, which has also suffered a serious mutation during post-multiplation. The original provision of the Constitution has always been in the search for political consensus. In fact, however, especially after the 2001 revision, it served as the prerogative of the opposition to the challenge of elections and the end of the electoral cycle. That is why the House proposed was also in the position that this provision should be revised. We are reviewing the provision, which disconnects the early dismantling of the House from the election of the President of the Republic. We are not reviewing the article, which defines how the President of the Republic is elected. It was so bad for you, Mr. Tsipras, that you did not even see to it that you reviewed Article 30, which states that the President of the Republic is elected by the National Representation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If we wanted to have a debate on whether the President of the Republic should be elected by the people, you would also have to propose a revision of the relevant article. The proposal we have tabled has been clear and clear. The existing provision will apply, which initially and repeatedly seeks large compositions. In the end, it results in a simple majority, subtracting the mediation of the elections. We are told that we have joined this position, contrary to our earlier proposals. It's a good thing at the hanger's house not talking about rope... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ... because since our proposal in 2014, he has experienced a dramatic experience, Mr. Tsipras, offering lessons and yes, he has reviewed visually. And that was no more than the brutal circumvention of the concept of the Constitution by you personally in 2014, when you provokedly refused to elect any person proposed for the position of President of the Republic. And if we suggested, we imagine you'd still be opposed! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So much you wanted to use the Constitution as a tool to dismantle the House. With declared then your provocative goal of interrupting the previous government's mandate, you interrupted its course and immediately led to the national catastrophic first half of 2015. It is interesting, Mr Tsipras, that you made references to Constantino Karamanlis and Constantino Tsatsos and you wondered whether Constantine Karamanlis could ever imagine that he could adopt such a provision. Again indisputable, Mr Tsipras, because he was elected with a hundred and fifty three MPs, Constantine Karamanlis President in 1990!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u29	No, a hundred and twenty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u30	And you didn't know, Mr. Tsipras, that this was the provision in the original constitution written by Karamanlis and Chachos! Indiscretion again? What about the constitutionally indisputable?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u31	No, a hundred and twenty...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u32	Again indiscreet! And that's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u33	And after an election your father caused.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u34	They're at Chiefs' level, we're talking about it. Some people are in a hurry!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u35	I'm sorry I can't take the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u36	Do you really think there can be a government with an absolute majority, Mr Tsipras, which elects a President of the Republic with a relevant majority and can stand here in this Chamber the next day? The solution, which we are proposing, is the only practicable solution which allows us to dismiss the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic from the early dissolution of the House. There is no other thing that we know at least - that can work in practice. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What you are proposing is, first of all, a proposal which, if voted on, would be completely waste, because you have not taken care to revise Article 30. It also refers to other systems, with a strong President of the Republic and would cause severe grief in our own city. Because we have no doubt that, in this case, the President of the Republic would become a person with a party identity. Its election cannot be part of the political agenda for those who propose it. Of course, it is strange, Mr Tsipras, that the President of the Republic, who can be elected by Parliament with an increased parliamentary consensus, is what we all want, that he, in the end, has less political legitimacy than a President, who will not have been elected by an increased consensus from the House, but will have been elected by the people. In other words, we will have two categories of president. If we wanted to have a substantial debate - I do not prefer it, which is why we did not propose it - on whether the President of the Republic should be elected by the people in the first place, that would be a legitimate debate. We can get out of here. We do not prefer, however, under any circumstances - and especially after the traumatic experience of 2015 - that the presidential election should in any way be involved in the scratches of the political process. That is the proposal which we are proposing to the House. And it goes without saying that the constitutional provision for the final election of the President of the Republic by a simple majority does not make it unequivocal - I repeat: it does not make no sense! - the political responsibility of each majority to seek a person, which will ensure the greatest possible consensus. Besides, this option will always be open to the citizens' judgement. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that, despite the arrows that some people very comfortablely launch against post-multipleism, this period has brought Greece a long period of constitutional normality, for which, knowing the troubled history of our country, we must be grateful. The economic crisis has added great challenges to our constitutional arsenal. He's got the right thing to do. Of course, the Constitution alone is not responsible for economic adventure nor, in any way, can a Constitution guarantee prosperity. However, the Constitution, which will apply from tomorrow - even without the extent that we would like - sends out a message of modernisation. There can be no constitution, ladies and gentlemen, to replace the process of mature society itself. This was done in a violent, painful way, traumatic manner. However, as Greece today, with steady steps, leaves behind the period of crisis, frames this Constitutional Constitution, the national effort for a Greece, which we deserve, with dignity for all, safely for all, with democracy for all, with growth for all. So I am aware of the history of the moments and our responsibility for the next generation, we are handing over Greece's new constitution text for a new era and for a new Greece! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the special agenda for the Revision of the Constitution has been concluded here. We will have a short break and then we will enter the decision-making process, namely the vote on the provisions of the Constitution whose revision is proposed. The break will be in the ten-minute order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u38	After the ten-minute interruption, we continue the process of the special agenda and we enter the decision-making process. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and the way the House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall, twenty-eight students and four teachers attending from the Municipal School of Agios Antonios Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause]] Follow the process of Revision of the Constitution, the most important law of the state, which the next time you change you will go to High School III. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats to announce the voting procedure, which must be done carefully and quietly. We are entering into a decision on the provisions of the Constitution of which it is proposed to revise, in accordance with Articles 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The subject of today's vote is the provisions of the Constitution, of which the Review is proposed, as determined by the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the IZ' and as their content was formulated by the Revision Committee of the Constitution and by the Plenary Assembly of this House. This is where a small account is worthwhile. In addition to the political leaders, the six Secretarys-General and Special Representatives and the six Parliamentary Representatives, there were two hundred and six MPs, some apparently two or three meetings last week, the Deputy Prime Minister and five ministers. All last week, from Monday to Friday, it has been devoted to the debate, which leads to today's vote and we have been discussing for sixty hours. This is the quantitative dimension of the Review. The text of the provisions of the Constitution, of which the revision is proposed, has already been taken into account by the House. As you know, the debate on the sections of the articles proposed by the revision with the changes made to them has been concluded, as set out in the text which has been distributed to you. Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to take this into account and ask you to pay attention. You have already been distributed a list containing the provisions of which the revision is proposed. The vote, which you have in your hands, has three voting blocks with 'yes', 'no', 'no', 'no', in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. If there is no note of the vote by the Member next to a 'yes', 'no' or 'no', this will be regarded as 'at present', even if the Member has not noted the 'no' box, because three are the options. As you know, the vote is roll-call, and it is clear and carried out for all the provisions, as they are reflected in the ballot at the same time, with a note of the Members' vote separately on each provision, in accordance with Rule 119(6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. When you read the list, which will be made by the Chair, in the words of your name, note your preference in the list, your name, the constituency and your parliamentary group, you sign it at the end of the second page and you present it to the voters who sign it and then collect it. For the provisions of which you accept the Review, note in box ‘yes’ and for which you do not accept the revision, note ‘no’. The cross, the ‘h’, or the ‘n’, that is, the tick, are acceptable symbols of voting. Similarly, if you wish, note 'the present'. When you hear your name, you will come, one by one, to my fellow Members, Mr Athanasio Kavada, from New Democracy and Mr Mario Katsis from SYRIZA, who will receive the vote, write it down, number it and check it in detail if it is already signed and the vote has taken place. I would like to add that the voters will make a first vote check in order to check whether their necessary formalities exist, namely names and signatures. If the name and signature are omitted, the Member shall immediately be invited, completed and initialled. That is why I would ask you, and I ask you, not to move away from the Chamber for at least half an hour from the time when all the Members will have voted. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy and Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA are on the list. At the end of the vote, eight committees will be set up to count the ballot as follows: each committee will be three-member and shall be composed of its chairman and two members. These committees will share an equal number of ballots. Each committee will draw up a counting protocol and at the end the outcome of each committee will be taken into account. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) has been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, in which colleagues report their vote on the provisions of the Constitution, to which the revision is proposed. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will then be followed. I would like to inform you that after the roll-call vote has been concluded, because it is not required for the resolution by the Constitution or by the roll-call vote, it will be voted on by means of a reintroduction of the resolution which will implement the revised provisions of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like the roll-call vote to begin by reading the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u39	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u40	Also, letters from Members of Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Thrafaniotis, Nikos Philias and Athanasios Pafilis, have been sent to the Bureau, making known their vote on the provisions for which the revision is proposed. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u41	The vote is adjourned. The Members of Parliament are invited to attend the Committees: Mr Marcopoulou, Mr Vassiliou Vassiliou and Mrs Ireni Agathopoulos. Mr Constantinos Kyanaakis, Member of the Committee of the Regions, Mr Ioannis Economou and Mr Alexandros - Christos Aylonitis. The third Committee: President: Mr Themistoklis Himaras, Ms Maria-Alexandra Kefala and Ms Kallipe Vetta. 4th Committee of the Regions: Mr Christos Dermenzopoulou, Mr Anastasios Bartzokas and Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou. President: Mr Evangelos Liakos, member of Mr Athanasios Ljutas and Mrs Sunday Malamas. 6th Steering Committee: President: Mr Pericles Mantas, members of Mr Constantine Maravegias and Mr Charalambos Mamoulakis. 7th Steering Committee: Chairman Mr.Ioannis Melas, members of Mrs. Catherine Monument and Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos. 8th Committee of the Regions: Mr Miltiadis Chrysomalis, members of the Committee of the Regions, and Mrs Rallia Christidou. The members of the commissions will sit on the front of all the parties. I would like to ask the members of the Committees to share the lists to make the counting, which is very responsible, of knowing and recalling that the result of the vote is announced by the Bureau. Therefore, no communication and no "defence" of partial effect by anyone is permitted during the count. The result will be announced by the Bureau. [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-three students and students and three teachers from the 8th Lamia High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, thirty-eight students and students and three teachers attendances from the Kanton Vurlos High School. The House welcomes you. I would like to inform the visitors that at this moment the House is very quiet because a vote is taking place. We had an important vote a moment ago on the change of constitution, a very important process, which takes place every ten years. Now the MPs are counting the ballots to announce the result. So you're watching right now that you don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House, after a cross-check and verification, the result of a roll-call vote on the revised provisions of the Constitution. A total of 297 Members voted for a total of 300 Members. Residents were 3 Members, according to the roll-call ballot protocol. The result of the vote is as follows: Article 3(1) on religious neutrality of the State (proposal SYRIZA) has received: 83 'NAH', 190 'OH, 24 'APARON'. It is therefore not revised. Article 3(2) on religious neutrality of the State (proposal SYRIZA) has received: 85 'NAH', 190 'OH, 22 'PAH'. It is therefore not revised. Article 3(3) abolished the paragraph (SYRIZA proposal) received: 124 'NAH', 170 'OH', 3 'PAH'. It is therefore not revised. Article 3 of the proposal to introduce an interpretative declaration on the term 'predominant religion' (proposal from the SYRIZA) has received: 83 'NAI', 187 'OF', 27 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. Article 5(2), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex, sex and sexual orientation (SYRIZA proposal) has received: 120 'NAH', 170 'OHS', 7 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. Article 13(5) on the adoption of the political oath, on the basis of a proposal from the SYRIZA, received: 83 'NAH', 170 'OH', 44 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. Article 21(1) of the New Democracy's proposal on minimum guaranteed income received: 190 'NAH', 107 'NOH', 0 'PAH'. The provision is therefore revised. SYRIZA's proposal, to guarantee a decent standard of living for all, received: 106 'NAH', 182 'OH', 9 'APARON'. It is therefore not revised. Under Article 21(3), the right to health (SYRIZA proposal) has received: 115 'NAH', 182 'OH', 0 'PAH'. It is therefore not revised. Article 21, adding paragraph 7, on public control of basic social goods, (proposal from the SYRIZA), has received: 125 'NAH', 172 'OH', 0 'PAH'. It is therefore not revised. Article 22(1) on the right to equal pay for work of equal value, irrespective of age, (proposal from the SYRIZA) has received: 129 'NAH', 168 'OFF', 0 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. Article 22(2) on unilateral referral to arbitration for the establishment of general conditions of employment and the strengthening of the most favourable conditions for regulated workers (SYRIZA proposal) has received: 128 'NAH', 168 'OH', 1 'PAH'. It is therefore not revised. Article 22(4) on the prohibition of the placing on the market of personal services on the ground of a strike (proposal from the SYRIZA) has received: 106 'NAH', 190 'OH', 1 'PAH'. It is therefore not revised. Article 22(5), on the reduction of social security rights, (proposal SYRIZA) received: 109 ‘NEA’, 170 ‘OF’, 18 ‘PARA’. It is therefore not revised. Article 25(3) abolishes the prohibition on the abuse of a right whilst introducing the principle of leniency (proposal by the SYRIZA) has received: 107 ‘NEA’, 190 ‘OF’, 0 ‘PARA’. It is therefore not revised. Article 28(2) establishing a referendum on a treaty or agreement providing for a transfer of sovereign powers of the State (proposal by the SYRIZA) has received: 94 ‘NEA’, 194 ‘OF’, 9 ‘PARA’. It is therefore not revised. Article 32(4) concerns the election of the President of the Republic. The proposal of the New Democracy for the election of the President of the Republic received: 158 'NAH', 139 'NOH', 0 'PAH'. The provision is therefore revised on the basis of the proposal of the New Democracy. SYRIZA's proposal on the same subject, concerning the election of the President of the Republic, received: 83 'NAH', 212 'NOH', 1 'PAH'. So it's not revised. Article 32(5) for the extraordinary convening of the absent parliament for the election of the President of the Republic (proposal from the SYRIZA) has received: 83 'NAI', 213 'OH', 1 'APARON'. It is therefore not revised. Article 33(2), introduction of the political oath during the oath of the President of the Republic (proposal from the SYRIZA) has received: 97 'NAH', 168 'OH', 32 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. Article 37(2) on the introduction of a compulsory parliamentary status of the Prime Minister (SYRIZA proposal) has received: 93 'NAH', 180 'OHS', 24 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. Article 38(1) on a constructive proposal for distrust (proposal from the SYRIZA) has received: 83 'NAH', 212 'OH', 2 'PAH'. It is therefore not revised. Article 38(2), on the definition of Deputy Prime Minister, (proposal from the SYRIZA) received: 103 'NAH', 182 'OH, 12 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. Article 44(2), a referendum on the people's initiative, (proposal from SYRIZA) received: 116 'NAH', 158 'OHS', 23 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. Article 54(1) (proposal from the SYRIZA) has received: 94 'NAH', 180 'OH', 23 'PAH'. It is therefore not revised. Let's go to Article 54, to which we have a proposal to add paragraph 4. The New Democracy proposal on this, concerning the vote of non-national voters, received: 212 'NAH', 84 'NOH', 1 'PAH'. It is therefore revised. SYRIZA's proposal on this, i.e. for the vote of the non-attached voters, was adopted respectively: 108 'WAY', 178 'WAY', 11 'UP'. It is therefore not revised. Article 54, introduction of an interpretative declaration on the definition of the proportional electoral system, (proposal from the SYRIZA) received: 84 'NAH', 204 'OF', 9 'APARON'. It is therefore not revised. Article 56, adding paragraph 5, for a comitology of Members of Parliament for three successive term of office, (SYRIZA proposal) has received: 84 "NAI", 202 'OF", 11 'APARS'. It is therefore not revised. Article 59(1), establishing the political oath for Members, (proposal from the SYRIZA) has received: 96 'NAH', 169 'OH, 32 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. Article 59(2) adopted the political oath (proposal from the SYRIZA): 97 'NAH', 167 'OH', 33 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. In Article 62, the New Democracy's proposal to limit the parliamentary impunity received: 179 'WAY', 117 'WAY', 114 'WAY'. It is therefore revised. SYRIZA's proposal on the same subject, namely the restriction of the parliamentary impunity, received: 117 'NAH', 171 'OHS', 9 'APARS'. It is therefore not revised. In Article 68(2), the proposal of the New Democracy for the setting-up of committees of inquiry exceptionally qualified majority voting was received: 189 'NAI', 94 'OI', 14 'APARON'. So it's being reviewed. [[Applause]] The SYRIZA proposal on the same subject, setting up committees of inquiry exceptionally as a majority, received: 106 'NAH', 166 'OHS', 15 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. Article 73 adopts a popular legislative initiative. The proposal of the New Democracy on this point relates to an addition to paragraph 6, and it received: 254 'NAH', 32 'NOH', 11 'PAH'. It is therefore revised. The corresponding SYRIZA proposal, however, concerning an amendment to paragraph 1, received: 98 'NAH', 189 'OH', 9 'PAH'. It is therefore not revised. In Article 84(2) we have the constructive motion for distrust (proposal from the SYRIZA), which received: 83 'NAH', 213 'OHS', 1 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. Article 86(3) abolishes the time limit for prosecuting Article 86(3), which is a joint proposal of the New Republic and SYRIZA, received: 274 'NAH', 0 'OH', 23 'PARA'. It is therefore revised. In Article 86, the introduction of an interpretative declaration determining the scope of Article 86(1) (suggested by the SYRIZA) received: 84 'NAH', 188 'OF', 25 'PARA'. It is therefore not revised. Article 96(5) has a proposal from the New Democracy on military courts. This proposal received: 189 'YES', 94 'NO', 14 'PARA'. It is therefore revised. On the same subject, the respective proposal by SYRIZA for military courts received: 103 'NAH', 180 'NOH', 14 'PAH'. It is therefore not revised. Article 101(1) on the regional organisation of the State (proposal from the SYRIZA) has received: 93 'NAH', 189 'OH', 15 'PAH'. It is therefore not revised. Article 101(4) on the specialization of state care for island and mountain regions (proposal from the SYRIZA) has received: 129 ‘NAI’, 168 ‘OF’, 0 ‘APARON’. It is therefore not revised. In Article 101 the introduction of an interpretative declaration on the specialization of state care for island and mountain regions (proposal of SYRIZA) received: 129 "NAI", 158 "HOI", 10 "PARA". It is therefore not revised. Article 101A concerns the selection of members of the independent authorities. The New Democracy's proposal on this issue, namely the selection of the members of the independent authorities, received: 158 'WAY', 139 'WAY', 0 'PARA'. It is therefore revised. The corresponding proposal of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for the establishment of new independent authorities with an increased majority of the Parliament and at the same time the members of the independent authorities received: 84 "NAI", 194 "OH", 19 "PARA". It is therefore not revised. Article 102(2) on the establishment of the proportional electoral system in the election of the authorities of the Local Government - popular assemblies and local referendums (proposal from the SYRIZA) has received: 105 "NAI", 190 "OTI", 2 "PANI". It is therefore not revised. Article 112(4) (common proposal of the New Republic and SYRIZA) has received: 297 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’. It is therefore revised. Article 113 (common proposal of the New Republic and SYRIZA) has received: 297 'WAY', 0 'WAY', 0 'KAY', 0 'KAY'. It is therefore revised. Article 114(1) (common proposal from the New Republic and SYRIZA) has received: 297 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’. It is therefore revised. Article 114(2) (common proposal of the New Republic and SYRIZA) has received: 297 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’. It is therefore revised. Article 115(1) - which is the subject of this - (joint proposal from the New Democracy and SYRIZA) has received: 297 'NAH', 0 'OH', 0 'OH', 0 'PARA'. It is therefore revised. Article 115(2) (common proposal of the New Republic and SYRIZA) has received: 297 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’. It is therefore revised. Article 115(3) (common proposal of the New Republic and SYRIZA) has received: 297 'WAY', 0 'WAY', 0 'KAY', 0 'KAY', 0 'KAY'. So it's being reviewed. Article 115(4) (common proposal of the New Republic and SYRIZA) has received: 297 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’, 0 ‘WAY’. It is therefore revised. Finally, Article 119(1) (common proposal, in the same way, of the New Republic and SYRIZA) has received: 297 'WAY', 0 'WAY', 0 'WAY', 0 'WAY'. So it's being reviewed. Ladies and gentlemen, the voting protocol and the votes of Members voted will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u43	The Revision House therefore decided today, on 25 November 2019, Monday, with the time required by paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 110 of the Constitution, in conjunction with paragraph 10 of Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, by a majority, to vote and act as a force for the following provisions of the Constitution, as formulated in the debate in Parliament and published and activating them, as provided for in its resolution. The provisions of the Constitution, as formulated or amended, will be included in the Minutes. Here I will read the resolution, which reads as follows: (Parliament adopted Resolution, publication and entry into force of the revised provisions of the Constitution. THE REVISIONAL WORLD OF THE HELLENES Having regard to the Treaty establishing the 1, Rule 110 of the Constitution and Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure; 2. the proposal of the President of the Radical Left coalition, Alexis Tsipras and 49 MPs of the Radical Left coalition to the Greek Parliament for the revision of certain articles and provisions of the Constitution, 3. the proposal of the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and 76 Members of the New Democracy to the Greek Parliament for the revision of certain provisions of the Constitution, 4. the additional proposals submitted by Members for the revision of certain provisions of the Constitution, from 18 January 2019, 21 January 2019 and 8 February 2019 in the Constitution; No 5. No. 14017/8812 of 12 November 2018 Decision of the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, on the establishment of a Constitutional Review Committee, Having regard to the report of the Revision Committee to the Greek Parliament, 7. the decision of the Greek Parliament on the revision of provisions of the Constitution of 14 February and 14 March 2019; No 8. No. 15314/8798 of 16 September 2019 Tsoula on the establishment of a Constitutional Review Committee, 9. the report from the Revision Committee to the Greek Parliament, 10. Resolution of 6 March 1986 of the Revision Assembly of the Greeks 'Transfer of the text of the Constitution to the Municipal Language', published in FEI 24 A/14-86; 11. in paragraph 2 of the Resolution of 6 April 2001 of the Greek Revision Assembly, on the basis of which the entire text of the Constitution was published in the Sec. 85 A/18-4-2001; and 12. in paragraph 2 of the Resolution of 27 May 2008 of the Greek Revision House of Greece, which published the entire text of the Constitution in FEK 102 I/2-6-2008. casts the vote. A. The provisions revised are as follows:...’ With your permission to submit in the minutes the provisions which are revised and which arise on the basis of the results of the vote, i.e. Article 21(1), Article 32(4), Article 54, Article 62, Article 68(2), Article 73, Article 86(3), Article 96(5), Article 101a, Article 112(4), Article 113, Article 114(1), Article 114(2), which means that Article 114 is repealed - Article 115(1), Article 115(2), Article 115(3), Article 115(4) - which means that Article 115 is repealed - and Article 119(1). I continue with reading the Resolution. ‘B. The President of Parliament shall sign and publish this Resolution in the Official Journal of the Government, as well as the entire text of the Constitution, including the revised provisions. C. In the event of doubt as to the provisions that are being revised the only authentic text is the text in which they were formulated and voted on by this Review House of the Greeks, and the texts of the Cleaning House of Greeks in force, in accordance with the Resolution of the F' Revision House of the Greeks, Resolution of 6 April 2001 of the Z' Revision House of the Greeks and Resolution of 27 May 2008 of the H'Revision Chamber of Greeks. D. The revised provisions, unless otherwise specified in any of them, shall enter into force by the publication of that Resolution in the Official Journal of the Government. E. This resolution shall apply from its publication in the Official Journal of the Government."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u44	I would ask the honourable Members, then, to adopt the resolution by lifting the hand. [[The adopters raise the hand of the Parliamentary Resolution]] The House therefore unanimously adopted it. Before declaring the revised work of the Revision House, let me express my sincere, deep and unwitting thanks and congratulations to all those who have contributed to two successive votes, the nomination and the review - that is to say the present - of the Revision of the Constitution, which has just been completed: the Secretary-General of Parliament, Mr Mylonakis, the Special Secretary, Mr Bagiokos, the Chairman of the Scientific Council of Parliament, Professor Mauri, the Directorate-General for Parliamentary Work, and in particular the Directorates for Legislative Work, Parliamentary Committees, Stenography and Practical Practice, the Department of Electricology - even this - for the proper and prosperous conduct of the meetings, the Secretary-General of the Revision Chamber of Konstantinos Javaras and Georgios Katrougalos, the Special Representatives of the Parliament, the Presidents of the Committee of Representatives and Presidents of the Presidents of the European Parliament. and Mr Gerapetiti, Minister of State and Professor of Constitutional Law, all of which have contributed to the completion of a serious, rare and critical parliamentary procedure - the supreme procedure under the Constitution - of the Constitution's Review. Finally, I would also like to thank the parliamentary authors, who have covered the meetings in committee, in plenary and in the procedure of today's vote and - I repeat - all the Members of this House who have contributed the work so that we can achieve the result today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Revision House has completed its review work in accordance with the Constitution and the decision of the previous House. In view of the above, I would ask you to authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u45	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Artemis School of Lower Lechion. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S2-commons.u46	With the agreement of the House at 17.52 minutes the sitting is closed for today, Monday, 25 November 2019 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
