ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 13-11-2019, the minutes of its PRACTICAL sessions, of Wednesday 13 November 2019, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law: ‘Amendments to the Criminal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure and related provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First, let me tell the House on Friday 15 November 2019. ‘A. (Article 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 214/12-11-2019 by MP Chania of the New Democracy Mr Manosou Voloudakis to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Evaluation of SMPs and ANFAs for financing public investment". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 195/11-11-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Britain and lawlessness in the center of Thessaloniki - SOS address residents, professionals, students and visitors". 3. The question by No 186/5-11-2019 of the Member of the Ilias MEP of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "An analysis of the government's proposals for the "Patras - Tower" project. 4. The Question No 210/12-11-2019 by Congressman I Eastern Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Giokas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Not in the construction and operation of new HYTAs at the Integrated Waste Management Installation (OEDA) Race". 5. The 204/12-11-2019 topical question by Congressman North Athens Division of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis, Minister for Health, on the subject: 'Critical risk of subsidization of the ESS'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 190/7-11-2019 topical question by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "At the General Mining and Metallurgy S.A. (MGM S.A.) LARKO and the safety of its workers.' 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 205/12-11-2019 topical question by Piraeus II Piraeus of Mera25 Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Experiments outside the University of Athens". 3. The 192/8-11-2019 topical question by the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'What is the government's plan for Megalopolis?' 4. The 206/12-11-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on "Privatization plans of public hospitals". 5. The 196/11-11-2019 topical question by the Deputy of State of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Elecsia of EL.AS. at the Economic University of Athens and generally issues of lawlessness at the AEIs." 6. The 207/12-11-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Efficiency of the old OSE train station to its Citizens". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 732/17-9-2019 by MP Magnesia of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Have the current and immediate needs of Achilopoulos Hospital of Volos'. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the topical and urgent questions within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny of Thursday 14 November 2019 that the timely questions to be debated are as follows: "The numbers 188 and 193 will be answered by the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. Question No 213 by Mr Mavroudi Voridis will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food. The Question No 187, addressed to the same Minister, will not be answered because of lack of competence. Questions Nos 211, 212 and 212 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Metarakis. The Question No 189, addressed to the same Minister, will not be answered because of lack of competence. And the Question number 203 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Theodoros Livanios.' So we begin the debate with the first under number 193/11-11-2019 on the first question of the first cycle of the Piraeus MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodorou Dricas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The abolition of the Ministry of the Single Administrative Sector (NPT)". The Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos will answer. Mr. Dritsas has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, you know, as we all know, how important the role of civil servants working and serving in the Ministry of National Defence and throughout the country with services that have a diverse effect. The role is not only a job, but it contributes and complements and assists the overall system of the National Defence. Many thousands of workers and it is no accident that top political actors, top historical political figures twenty-five years ago with a joint ministerial decision, then the Minister of Government Anastasios Peponis, the Minister of National Defence Gerasios Arsenis, the Minister of Finance, Alekos Papadopoulos, established the only interclining service of the Ministry with a mission to manage all the issues of civil servants in the single administrative area, a sector that was characterised by the principle clearly, transparently, targeted towards managing these issues in a uniform way. It worked, as it worked, for twenty-four years up and down, with weaknesses and gaps, but was formed on the days of our own governance in 2018 by clarifying specific organisational structures and responsibilities. It was thus established as it had been planned since 1994 by the Civilian Management Coordination Directorate and by Departments of Administrative Support for Education and Training Policy, Care for civilian staff and secretarial support. As we all understand it is a structure very useful and very rationally structured and your government comes in the context of the restructurings you have chosen and abolishes the position of the special secretary and restores the Secretary-General even by giving him powers with some form that I then commented on with a press release with public statement, with no creative ambiguity...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Dritsa, please be brief. It's your protology. Go on to the question why do you have the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u5	...and abolishes this sector and from there there, there is a gap that we waited for while we were waiting publicly in the next period for it to be covered, regulated, not so far regulated. The question therefore is why you have abolished the single administrative sector, whether you will replace it with another structure and what and why all of the responsibilities provided for in the Agency's Coordination and Management Directorate on the Ministry's website for responsibilities belong to an agency that has been abolished by it. It is contradictory and also raises questions of the legality of decisions taken during this interim period. It's a big deal. It does not only concern work issues, it concerns the overall structure of the Ministry of Armed Forces, which has a multiple impact on all its actions and all its services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u6	The Minister for National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, if this question is essentially aimed at raising some political staff's concerns and questions about their future and their functioning in the structure of the Ministry of National Defence, I will go directly to the point, while adding that the civilian staff are not concerned about this because they feel that they have been guaranteed in the existing structure. I'm starting at the beginning. The Ministry of National Defence has specific features, such as its staff, because it employs both military and political officials, who are subject to a separate legal framework for their operation and, on the other hand, special arrangements for them are often required, except for those generally provided for in the rest of the public sector. It is also noted that the civilian personnel of the Armed Forces are not directly subject to the Ministry, as you know, but are administratively members of the General Staff of Military, Navy and Air Force, of which they are paid for. It is therefore precisely because each staff manages their staff independently the single administrative sector which operated in 1994 until last July had precisely the role of harmonisation and coordination of staff in order to implement uniformly and smoothly the politicians involved. Now the single administrative sector of the Ministry of National Defence has been in place since 1994, i.e. since its establishment, directly linked to the position of the special secretary of the Ministry and makes sense. Therefore, the abolition of the single administrative sector came about as a logical consequence and as a result of the overall restructuring carried out on the administrative structures of the Ministry of National Defence and in particular the abolition of the post of Special Secretary. Of course, these do not mean that, with this move, the government's political leadership refuses the usefulness of a service structure for the coordination of the three General Staff in terms of their political staff. On the other hand, the Government recognised the need to upgrade the Ministry of National Defence in its role and decided to place a Secretary-General instead of a special secretary with wider responsibilities, more responsibilities and to set up an increase in qualifications in order to fulfil his post. The management of the single administrative sector is now part of the permanent administrative structure of the Ministry and its Directorates-General and is directly subject to the Secretary-General. The necessary advance has been made, and indeed remains to occur, to announce a draft and to sign the draft Presidential Decree which is currently being signed by the appropriate ministers and the control of the Council of State and which is against it, the responsibility of staff in general is maintained and the responsibilities relating to civil servants are increased. In any case, the continued flow and the order of their service shall be ensured as a matter of urgency. The position of the Special Secretary shall therefore not be abolished and, in particular, the care of such personnel by the Ministry. Political staff have been informed and there is no arrhythmia in this regard. The Secretary-General's door is open and everyone accepts this new structure. We haven't removed a duty place from the Department of Defense. That's not accurate. In fact, we have ensured them and ensure that the services handling civilian staff issues work in a uniform, direct, unresponsive manner and, in any case, in a spirit of upgrading the position of civil servants in the structure of the ministry. No administrative gap, just a structure that was abolished and we decided that, because its cycle was closed, it evolved through the position of Secretary-General, but through his responsibilities he fully covers all the issues and assumptions of the civil servants of the Ministry for which we agree that it is a group of workers that has a lot to offer and offers to the Ministry of National Defence. The rest in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u8	Well, there's a second one. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the answer or more appropriate for the answers. Still, I have to say you're confusing me. On the one hand, you recognise that there is a matter and there is a President-in-Office's decree which will set and redefined the issues pending and, therefore, we recognise that there has been a lack of openness, and on the other hand that all these functions and responsibilities can be exercised by the Secretary-General, which I would like to see put to the debate as long as it is time and since the President-in-Office is in the process of being represented. That should be the case. There can be no personal structures and I am not talking about this Secretary-General now, I am talking about the individual, about any ministry. Addresses and administrative areas are the basis, they are the structures and political responsibility, they are the Special Secretary, the Secretary-General, the Minister or anyone else. It is impossible to form a structure, and indeed, as you have said, with a cross-sectional dimension, with the specificities of the Ministry of National Defence and the Armed Forces in general, and all of this should converge in the competence and administration of a person, an institutional factor, such as the Secretary-General or the Minister and anyone else. They do not mean this to a model which, as I said, has this history and the validity of these names - Peponnes, Papadopoulos, Arsenis - and the process that has been historically formulated that cannot be ignored. They are structures designed, set up and operated with a view to rationalisation and coordination of issues, policy-making on training, education and organization. It is not just a bureaucratic process. These structures disappear unnecessarily, without sufficient explanation for why this is happening. From this point of view, and in the interests of fuller care, multi-faceted and multi-faceted care for the civil servants of the Ministry of National Defence and for the overall rationalisation of the whole system, I think that in any new choice to be made, because at the moment there is a gap - perhaps decisions taken over the entire period too, Mr Minister, and given the dismantling of the sector - it is not possible for any option, under the management of the Secretary-General, to incorporate this redefinition and reintroduction of the single administrative sector, which I say again is not a timely option. It is a historic option, which has been registered in the positives of the public administration in general and the Ministry of National Defence in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u11	What I would like to say, Mr Colleague, is that the Secretary-General is an institution. In fact, the position of the Secretary-General is a position, I would say, broader institutional scope than that of the Special Secretary. We felt that the government’s service structure could not remain committed to the needs of the past decades. Therefore, the single administrative sector and the position of a special secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together already with their recommendation twenty-five years ago, were decided to develop into another structure. We did this methodically and without the slightest administrative malfunction, with the Secretary-General of the Ministry of National Defence fully taking over the responsibilities of civil servants, the handling of their affairs. It does not feel demolished or derelict of political staff. Maybe he feels dismantled - and logical is - someone who has served as a special secretary. Political staff, however, feel fully covered. We have maintained all the positions of the civil servants. The Presidential Decree laying down the new framework for the operation of the Ministry of National Defence on these issues is now in the final phase. I understand some outstandingness until the President-in-Office is issued and the order is published. However, I can assure you that there is no question of any substance, namely any disruption or change in their position in the administrative structure and the general functioning of civil servants at the Ministry of National Defence, and I think that is the case here. The civil servants of the Ministry of National Defence have a very important role to play. It exists, it is part of a specific administrative structure, and it is precisely that administrative structure that we do not just guarantee, but we also increase, with all the assurances and consequences that this may have in its presence in the Ministry of National Defence. In addition, the staff themselves say they are satisfied with the turn of things and the way the Secretary-General is now handling their affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before going to the next question, let me have an authorisation for absence abroad. Mr Georgios Katrougalos MEP SYRIZA B1 North Athens seeks a short-day foreign leave from 15 to 17 November 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u13	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We enter the fourth with number 188/6-11-2019 in the first cycle question of the MEP of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Viliardou to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: ‘ELVO re-establishment’ Mr. Villander, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Introductory terms, the Greek Vehicle Industry is an important defence industry and a high-value production company for Greece. It is the only manufacturer of reciprocating vehicles in Greece, but also of an important automotive industry. At the same time, ELVO has built more than thirty thousand trucks, jeeps, armoured, refrigerant tanks and personnel transport vehicles. The company has important production facilities in Sindo, Thessaloniki, two hundred and seventy-three thousand square meters, sixty-six thousand covered with modern engineering equipment. I will not go into the financial figures. I've written them in a question I've tabled. I will only add that the major damage that occurred in 2013 was due to EUR 22.8 million, which appeared in its balance sheet two years after it was put into liquidation, without any explanation having been published. In the same strange way, retroactive forecasts of 14.6 million were considered for 2012. Competitions were subsequently opened. As you all know, they were fruitless, they didn't work. Here I will remain, in what former Minister of Defence said, Mr Kammenos, who made significant complaints about this development during a press conference at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition in 2008. He said at that time: "The main clearer, Ernst & Young, excluded the South Africans who were committed to maintaining all employees, for the immediate operation of the company and for the payment of a large part. He's doing it on purpose. He is slow to negotiate, as he is obliged to do after the competition, because it works for the benefit of the Germans who do not want ELVO to operate. As in the past, ELVO has been stripped by privatisation and is now trying not to work." I'll submit it to the Minutes. In reply, now, Mr Georgiadis said that the invitation to reopen the tender is imminent, perhaps within the month. It has been published that there are six interested parties, including, in addition to the above, Israeli and Greek companies. Our questions are as follows: Firstly, when will the inactivation of ELVO be brought to an end and when will it come out of the clearing system over the last five years? Is it not a big mistake to privatise such an important defence industry? Secondly, given that all defence industries around the world are interdependent with the defensive expenditure, which is further dictated by our obligations in NATO and the instability in the country's eastern borders, do you intend to commission armaments programmes to ELVO as well? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. We have two issues with this question. The first is that you asked us a question at the Department of National Defence. We answered you in a timely manner. You know our answer. The contents, I imagine, are the same as the question now being asked in time. So I do not understand why a reply in good time is being converted for some reason into a timely one. The second point is that the proceedings for ELVO do not make them by the Ministry of National Defence. The Ministry of National Defence is directly related to all defence industries. Logical and next is, since over there some of the armaments programs run by our Armed Forces are being carried out, with the importance of that, of course. However, it is supervised by other ministries, either the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Development with regard to the competitive process. The Ministry of National Defence is therefore irresponsible. So I made you well-known in answer to the question that this company is being supervised by the Ministry of Finance. I also said in the same reply that at this stage there are no programs of the Armed Forces that concern ELVO's interest. Could they exist? Probably. But, right now, there are no jobs. When a company in the Defence Industry, public or private, has no jobs, then its prospects are not good. The question at the Ministry of National Defence is how we will turn a company which does not have the ability to attract jobs, does not have the ability to carry out equipment, a company that has these qualifications, into a company that is viable and competitive for its own future and its future, of course, and the benefit of the Armed Forces as well. I should therefore like to point out that we do not care for the future of this company, which has been admitted for many years to support the Armed Forces with high quality material. As Ministry, we want ELVO to remain on the frontline of production and we are ready to work together - and we have already had a lot of discussions - with the company that is responsible and supervised by the Ministry of Finance itself, but also ELVO, in order to examine all these parameters which will lead to the re-activation and re-violence of the company. As long as the existing institutional framework for supplies allows us, which we intend to simplify, or rather to make, faster, operational and hence more effective by means of legislative intervention, which I put about the beginning of the new year, we will take all possible steps in this direction. You know that the priorities of the Ministry of Defence are to maintain and why not increase the operational capacity and the resilience of the Armed Forces, which is inextricably linked to ensuring logistical capacity for the Armed Forces and, of course, the revival of our Defence Industry as a whole. This is a strategic priority announced by the Ministry of National Defence. We are therefore in favour of strengthening the domestic industry, therefore ELVO. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] This assistance will be made by encouraging partnerships and examining proposals for cooperation between this industry and the private sector and with the defence and technology support sector in cooperation and with research institutes. ELVO must be allowed to revival. I said public character is neither taboo nor self-evident nor fetish. The point is that the Defence Industry is stepping on its feet. If this involves and finding investment plans for strategic cooperation with defence industry elements such as ELVO, we must look the way. The competitive process will, however, be carried out well or badly by the supervising Ministry and not by us. We will naturally have our full interest in this process of finding an investment shape. I'm afraid I can't help it. Otherwise, an industry, which has known very good days, but it has been devalued, which means that it has been wound up and cannot attract, if you like, jobs that will revive its future, will continue to be deceived. We need to stir up this road and to shake it, we need to look for the shapes that I described. That's our intention. The competitive process - the subject of another ministry, as I have told you - is in a process of planning and implementation. That's all I can tell you right now. Everyone's interest, I think, and yours - and I accept it - is to set up our defence industry companies on their feet for the benefit of the Armed Forces and the country as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Mr. Villard, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Minister, for the answer. Of course, for the benefit of Greece, it is what we say and we believe that the Defence Industry is necessary for our country to develop. In my question at the time, you only replied to me that, first of all, there are no Armed Forces' armaments programmes in which this company was planned to participate. And the Treasury to which I asked the same question, because you told me that it was competent, so far it has not given me any answer. So I thought that from somewhere the whole thing should be answered. With regard to what I have heard before, you have not commented at all on the sudden damages which ELVO has suffered, precisely because forecasts have been made which are unjustified. You also did not comment at all on what the former Minister of Defence Mr Kammenos said and on the complaints he made about Ernst & Young, for the Germans who do not want our military industry, etc. In this respect, if you are kind enough, I would like to make a comment. You too understand, as I have already seen, the importance of the Defence Industry, but also of the other armaments industries, EAA, EBO, etc., but also of others, for the economy of our country, not only, but also for the development of our country as well as for the protection of our borders from our enemies. As you can see, these industries in order to be able to make profitability and to be able to grow need work, as you quite rightly said, and usually so that they can survive they get armaments. Otherwise they can't survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u19	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u20	I think, Mr President, that we do not actually disagree. But you understand that the competitive procedures are not a simple case, but a case that must be invested in terms of transparency, impartiality and publicity. So you are asking me to comment on the statements made by the former Minister of Defence because it has always seemed that through a competitive procedure or through a winding-up procedure the alpha fiancé for ELVO and not the beta has probably been favoured. As you can see, that's not right. It is a superficial Minister to take a stand in favour of one and the other who comes to take a job, an element of the Defence Industry. It's something that I'd rather avoid. Mr. Kammenos didn't avoid it. However, I think that if we want to be accountable and impartial, in particular the institution of the Minister of National Defence should never take a position on where it is bleaking or not going through a competitive procedure or a winding-up procedure which is also accompanied by investment proposals for a company in the Defence Industry. As it does not prejudge or rather does not turn against a potential investor, this could be taken as a favor to another potential investor with what this implies. It's not our job to take that type of position. From there on, I repeat that the public nature of the defence industries is not taboo. And it is a question of pragmatic approach to things that our Defence Industry will only be stimulated if it finds investment shapes in strategic cooperation terms. Yeah, right now there's a competition running for ELVO with several candidates. This is a good point, it is a good omen, because it is precisely showing the prospects of this industry to attract investors first and through the investment process to regain status, to be able to claim and carry out business that they have to do with armaments. You know, these armaments programs, which could potentially attract a defence industry company, do not necessarily need to be just for the Armed Forces, but that is how they stand on their feet properly and fully the companies of the Defence Industry. At this time we are making a great effort to rebuild the Greek Air Industry, together with the large F-16 upgrade program. When this succeeds, this company will be able to attract corresponding airplane systems upgrades from other countries. And only then will it be internationally competitive, only then will it go from good to the best, only then can it fully support the needs of our Air Force with what that implies. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Talk about the Defence Industry is a great deal of talk, the problems that come from the past are too much, but now we have to make brave decisions. The minimum decision we have to take as a government and as a political system, because too many of them will pass through the House to be approved, is to support in practice and in fact the elements of the Defence Industry, so that Greece will acquire a defence industry commensurate with the operational capabilities of its Armed Forces. As long as this is not the case, there is a problem and the problem strikes directly, it is at the expense of the Armed Forces. If this condition is met, then our Armed Forces themselves will have a great deal to do. So you have an agony. I share her. We agree on that. This company needs to be refined and developed together with the whole Defence Industry. So let this competition run for ELVO. The omens are good. There are a lot of interesting people. Let's run from the Ministry of Finance, of course, and we'll watch it very closely. Because the next day of ELVO and the other companies in the Defence Industry is too critical for the whole of the country's Armed Forces. We are therefore well investing or want to invest in upgrading these companies and the entire Defence Industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u21	We enter the second under number 213/12-11-2019 in the second time question of the second question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Remuneration of oil producers and setting up a Scientific Committee'. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Makis Vorides, will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we insist on the question we put last week, because we see that the Ministry has not permeated the problem. Olive oil, olive oil in our country has been taken off the ground, an important national product is being devalued, and immediate measures need to be taken. The main causes are the failure of the plant protection programme for three consecutive year, with the main responsibility of the Ministry, of course. The second cause is the inertia of dealing with new risks, new enemies of the olive, which have appeared alongside the tomato. And the third is the signing by the previous government of the great increase in duty-free quantities of olive oil imported from third countries. I have asked the Ministry and I insist: First, to inform us of the process of submitting a dossier to the European Union in order to obtain approval for the payment of compensation for the lost income of producers three years now. Secondly, to set up a scientific committee to study the problem of olive plant protection, the new risks, and to propose solutions so that the problem does not continue again a year. Answers to these two questions I did not take. However, the question is more topical, because, as you will be aware, yesterday Victoria hit olive oil - not only in Crete, but also in other parts of the country - and ELGA should be supported in every way in order to be able to make personalisation of losses and to see the procedure for compensation for producers. Of course, apart from the crops, we have had problems in infrastructures and other issues, but these are other ministries. However, our question is more timely, unfortunately, because of these extreme weather phenomena which have again damaged our land and crops.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, the issue raised by your question is the tactics programmes and their effectiveness. You're imputing some responsibility to the Ministry. I have to say to you - I imagine you know this, but once this is the case, let us clarify it - that the Minister's involvement in the matter of tacosy is that he has opened the tender in order to have the supplier of the appropriate plant protection product. I have contacted Heraklion specifically to see whether there was any difficulty or delay due to the process of this competition. This competition last year took place in time. The plant protection product was provided to the regions and therefore, from the Ministry's side in this part, there is nothing to do with it. There is, from now on, the responsibility of the regions. The regions must carry out the tenders in order to have contractors carrying out the tacosy. The general picture I have, I must tell you, Mr Colleagues, in Greece on this issue is that in most regions, in many of the regions, this has worked last year. We did not, in other words, have any issues that appeared beforehand. That worked last year. There was a normal process in this respect. Now, as far as I understand it, this problem has arisen very sharply in Heraklion. So here we have to go and see specifically why in Heraklion what happened, what went wrong. After a series of legislative interventions in 2019, however, there does not appear to be any institutional difficulty in the tactics programme. We need to open up a wider debate, I will agree with you. Your thoughts and your idea for the committee will be considered, but I would just like this to be all started up and come in and raise real issues and not just to repeat issues that have been identified in the past. Claims for damages. As you know, ELGA does not compensate when the appropriate plant protection measures have not been taken. Compensation issues may be raised through the PESM mechanism where there are effects and losses due to weather conditions. That is an examination. And the last one, which is the recent issue, the current one, of course, will be ordered immediately to record the damages to see these matters which really have to be compensated for by the ELGA, because they fall under the ELGA compensation regulation. So I think that what we need to do - and I am closing my protology - is to invent what has happened to Heraklion in the tombs, because something has happened there in the tombs or possibly in the whole of Crete, because I hear it as a complaint from other parts of Crete, to see what went wrong with this programme. But it is no longer a central problem of the Ministry, at least as far as I have told you in its general procedural part.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I referred to three consecutive years. It's a huge problem. You admitted it and admitted it to the Ministry, because it was forced this year to correct the problems that had existed and unfortunately the producer had to lose income under the sole responsibility of the Ministry. I know what the political position is, but that is not my analysis. Because the previous government made an important, fat mistake. It was delaying for many months to transfer the corresponding appropriations in order to make the tenders possible in order to make the contracts. It's a crime offense! So for the past three years I have been talking about it is the main responsibility of the Ministry. Be careful, however, do not make the mistake of saying that the Ministry is only to secure the credit. As a representative of the State, as a responsible body, the Ministry is responsible for the collective program of lawlessness in all its dimensions. The fact that they are executed by regional government does not relieve you of your responsibilities. The responsibility lies with the Ministry of Rural Development. Does that mean what? There have been new dangers both from insects and fungi. They must be studied scientifically. The Ministry which collects the end of the homicide, the contribution in favour of the homicide programme - the Ministry receives, I am not the one who receives it - is responsible. It's a state program. So look at the new risks that have arisen and, of course, look at the effectiveness of the programme, because there are various scientific opinions. But that's not the time. The committee will examine all this. So recommend the scientists' committee to see the matter. On the issue of loss of income, I would like to say this: Excuse me very much, when the previous Minister in this Chamber, in my question, has admitted the mistakes and problems that existed - no, of course, his personal responsibility, but overall responsibility, he also transferred it to the regions and elsewhere - when he has admitted that there is a loss of income throughout Greece - see the figures of both Mytilini and Corfu and the Messinia and Laconia and everywhere, I am not talking about this year's production that we have the first samples, is not complete, I am referring to in the three previous years - and he said, 'we are collecting the data to file', he lied to us? Did he make fun of us? I'm questioning. You'll have to look into it, see if anything has happened. And you tell us if for this cause, which is the responsibility of the Ministry, we can file a file, give permission to you to make allowances. Excuse me, the Ministry is responsible for the past three years, the government, the state as a whole. So the state against the olive producer has no responsibility, does he not have any liability for compensation after he was wrong? Whether they will then charge it, as a state, to some responsible, that is another matter. The state was wrong and the European Union should be approved to compensate olive producers. That would be an honest attitude of the state towards the people from whom it receives a fraudulent contribution. Otherwise, what confidence will he pay for a murder charge? I am very clear, Mr Minister, because I think that this is a point which all of us must take care of, so that there is finally a consistency of the state with regard to producers. A scientific committee should therefore be set up to study the issue of tacosty, glossoporium, with the new risks. Of course, the issue of compensation and the dossier to be submitted to the European Union has an originality. For the first time the state will say to the European Union, 'children incorrectly and I ask your permission not to be regarded as State aid and to compensate people'. The third and final point is this: the damage is too great and we need to see it. Now, especially for Heraklion, we may have more damage. Be assured that in Chania is a chameleon, we say, the olives, but here we now have another problem. Hail has thrown all the production down. Olive oil has been completely destroyed because of the quartz. So we have lost income of rectified production - an object now - due to extreme weather phenomena, which is the hail. I can tell that, because it is a different matter and can be dealt with through the ELGA. I also thank you for the response, Minister, but you should also see the file, to see if there is anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u27	Before giving the Minister the floor for his denunciation, let me have a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Athens Gymnasium of Experimental Gymnasium. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u28	Mr Colleague, let's make it clear. I accept the responsibility of opening up a debate on whether the way in which the homicide programme is organised is satisfactory or not, and whether or not we need to reorganise it on a different basis. This debate can be opened. But, Mr President, I am referring to this point. I say that this would be more convincing and we could open up a wider debate on this if the problem still existed, which actually occurred in 2018. I don't have that image. So this year's program seems to have worked. A lot of people, I'm talking again. We may have failures here and there, but it seems to a lot of people that the program has worked. I cannot go into a process of rethinking and thinking about a programme, which, however, after the interventions made, seems to be progressing properly now. Especially for the year 2020, I have already signed the procurement contract. So they're moving on. We hope to be able to raise the new competition in time, perhaps by the end of the year, but at the beginning of January. So from the Ministry's point of view, the procedure is in progress. I repeat that if there are specialist failures in the regions - I do not have a general picture of failure this year - there may be specific issues. You tell me what happened in the past three years. Look, on the issue of the file, you understand - I suppose - that we must also find a legal framework for a file to be filed and ask for specific damages. Because obviously this failure is not part of the ELGA, it can be considered whether it can enter the ESDCs. There, however, means that there is a disaster due to weather, which is not covered by the ELGA or, from there on, to see whether there are any other legal instruments to cover this issue. Finally, on the subject of the committee, I must tell you that, regardless of whether or not it should be done, I will look into it, I do not know whether the committees are always the way to resolve the issues - there is already a programme which ELGO 'DIMITRA', with a budget of EUR 144,000, which looks at - and, in fact, applies specific practices, in specific areas, including Heraklion, Rethymnon, Chania, Lassithi, Triphyria, Fokidas, Samos and Mytilini - and is following the issue of the protection and the homicide programme. In particular, there is monitoring of tractors applying the bait sprays, storage in a database and management of all geographical and descriptive data for each pilot area. The question of optimisation and evaluation of a new electronic trap, where the torch will be counted automatically through an image processing system, is also considered. There is a monitoring of tooth resistance in plant protection products applied using modern diagnostic tools, bioassays and molecular tests. A computer system to support and improve chemical control of insects, weeds and phytopathic micro-organisms is hereby upgraded and updated. I say this because this pilot system is actually what it researches is to see if there are specific issues and problems that need to be addressed. On the issues of disaster compensation in Crete and elsewhere, obviously what we are going to do is that I now order that damage findings proceed immediately to see how much better we can deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. We continue with the fourth with number 203/12-112019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Stop financing of the Municipality of Petroupoli”. The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, this was the case when the city of Petroupoli was suddenly dismantled. It is a decision of the Ministry of Finance, but it is implemented by the Ministry of Interior. From the Local Government Grants Department of the TABs. In fact, a municipality with many peculiarities and many important problems remained unfunded, precisely because the account had not been opened at the Bank of Greece, as foreseen by the relevant law, until 1 October of this year. The bill has now been opened. What we want is for you to ask the OTA Grants Department to fully restore the financial flow, i.e. the amounts that have been retained in the past to be completed and entered into this account. But there is another central issue. We have a municipality with very specific characteristics, because it has - we would say - a proportion of young people to the total population of similar Muslim countries. In other words, that is what we would like to see Greece having to face up to the demographic situation, we have it in the Municipality of Petroupolis. We have too much students. Maybe one out of three residents is a student. This means to a municipality, which has huge financial problems in terms of infrastructures for education, culture and sport. So we must also look at the demographic, which is not the responsibility of your Ministry - but the issues of the funding of the Otto for these actions are - indeed, to see a specific framework for the financing of the municipalities with these specific features. I hear they say that there are other municipalities with a large proportion of the old age population, which creates needs. That's true. However, these needs are mainly covered by the National Health System. Here, we need the young population that is covered by the fixed funding of the ATTs. So it's a matter of your ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u31	The Minister has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Arsenis, I am very pleased with the question you have asked, especially the second part, because it is a very important issue and it is too high on the government agenda for the demographic problem. Especially the municipality of Petroupoli, indeed has a ratio, which is very good, in relation to the rest of the country. This not only must be maintained, but - I would say - and this indicator has improved even further. In order to do this, it needs a series of targeted actions which are mainly concerned with funding actions, infrastructures, which are mainly for the new generation. In what you mentioned, indeed, is the cultural sector, the sport sector, I would say - the children's stations, where it is a very important element, especially for working mothers, who want an incentive to move forward and to create a family or to raise a family. I would also say that they are school units, which must be well-formed, so that they can also welcome the increased number of children, but also be modern and environmentally adapted to the new needs and have a general opportunity to welcome these children. In this context, therefore, there is a series of actions by the Ministry of the Interior. At times, various programmes have been carried out - I would remind you of the 'THESE', 'PHILODIO I', 'PHILIDIMO II' - which went in this direction. A number of school units were improved. Some cultural infrastructures have been created. The political leadership of the Ministry of Interior since the new year will therefore launch a new financing programme, where its central axis will be the development prospects of a municipality, especially the improvement of schools' premises. I would remind you that there is now a two-year compulsory pre-school education issue, so appropriate structures must be available throughout Greece to accommodate the four-year-olds, who now have to go to kindergarten. And, of course, we are aiming to upgrade cultural and sports spaces, because the new generation wants sport as a basic area for the cultivation of their education. Of course, in a short time, these actions will be specified by invitations, which will be made available. Obviously, in invitations a criterion will be the number of beneficiaries, in relation to the total population. And in this, municipalities, such as the municipality of Petroupoli, will have - if you like - a better moleculation in the evaluation of tenders. The first issue is a matter of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance has the allocation of resources to all General Government bodies. It wasn't that sudden, let me tell you. In January, the obligation to open an account began. An extension was given until July 1st, if I'm not mistaken. Immediately afterwards, because it was the pre-election period, there was a further extension until 1 October in order to establish the new municipal authorities. It is pleasant that the municipality of Petroupoli has proceeded and the account has been opened. Obviously, once the Ministry of Interior has been informed, the CAP money will immediately be paid, so that there will be no problem with its operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u33	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased about your commitment to the immediate release of money as soon as you are informed of opening the account. This is very crucial, especially for the Municipality of Petroupoli, which also has these specific financial needs because of the young population. It was very interesting and your commitment to the new financial framework for sports, culture and education infrastructures. In fact, it is very important that there should be such a framework. But it is worth studying what we can do about a demographic problem, which is cross-sectoral and is not divided into ministries. Obviously, the Ministry of Interior has a very important role to play in strengthening the municipalities. Perhaps we should also see the part of the direct grant of the municipalities, obviously also in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, because this grant meets standing needs. The programme you have announced will cover investments in new infrastructures, perhaps even modernisation of infrastructure. However, there are fixed needs for the operation of these infrastructures, which in this case are increased. So we need to see a little with a creative open logic, how we can help these municipalities. There may also be problems in municipalities with a small youth population and we want to strengthen them for another reason. In this case, however, where we have the enhanced youth population we would like to see, how can we strengthen these municipalities so that they can provide their services equal to any other municipalities in these new fellow citizens? In other words, we need the Ministry here to see a bit more openly and the part of the central grant, i.e. the algorithm which calculates the grant of each municipality, to include the part of youth. I think this is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the permanent financing - and we are talking about central self-resources - I recently said in a speech in plenary that we must go to a system that reflects the actual operational needs of the municipalities and on the basis of a specific set of criteria which will result in a final amount. I also said that there was a positive step in 'CLISTEN' as far as the criteria are concerned. Unfortunately, however, for most of these there was no actual evidence to be calculated. In particular, as regards, for example, the road network which has the kilometres to the rural roads, up to the rate of unemployment, up to the share of GDP in the country. This is a number of factors which need to be taken into account. There we said, therefore, that the Ministry will now look at the application of the criteria from 2021, in order to reach a system that is fair to all municipalities, but which also gives development prospects, of course, within the framework of the budgetary policy that exists. As far as demographics are concerned, I can tell you - as well as the Minister present, Mr Metarakis - that it is the number one problem in the country at the moment, because that depends on a number of reasons. There are national reasons. There are reasons for economics. There are reasons for pensions. The pyramid is now inverted. Old people are more than young people. Births are much less than deaths. This is what you realise, both in the insurance system and in the ageing population and in the continuing decline in the working population, in the working population and in more contributions than in pensioners, obviously. Whenever special and demographic policy is needed, which is high in government priorities. For example, I mention the EUR 2000 child allowance, which will be paid from the new year, the Prime Minister's commitment to no child outside the school station, for which we are working very much, in order that from the new school year beginning in the autumn of 2020 it will be implemented at 100%. This is a series of actions which are too important to motivate young couples, especially to create a family and to have children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u37	And we thank the Minister. The third question will then be discussed under number 211/12-11-2019, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "SELONTA Yachts SAGE." The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Mr. Panagiotis (Southern) Metarakis. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Very recently, the SELONTA group - and more specifically the unit of the packet in Nea Epidavros Argoldis - proceeded to five redundancies, five unfair and illegal, in the opinion of the JRC. In fact, these redundancies came immediately after the elections for the Committee on Health and Safety. At first, four employees were fired. One employee of the four participated in the ballot for the election of the Committee on Health and Safety. The fifth dismissal of the trade unionist, elected at the branch of food and drinks in Argolida Prefecture, was followed, because he defended the fired and demanded the employer to reinstate them. Of course, this prosecution against the trade unionist has been holding in the particular packing room for years. Already in March a targeting attack has been launched. It is clear that this whole process begins with the perseverance of the employer to put on the plaster any moves, any trade union activity, to terrorise workers themselves from the activity developed by the Trade Union food and drink, especially for huge problems that exist in the unit and concern the health and safety conditions of workers beyond the other issues of labour intensification. And even the pretext of the company to make redundancies is that its work has been reduced. At the same time, however, in order to meet the needs of the package, workers are borrowed from other units in the area, at the same time they use a contractor to meet the needs of the package in question. So all this proves to be lame the employer's claims, that they are terrorist redundancies, which must be taken back. At the same time, the Ministry's audit mechanisms must enforce any elementary rights left to workers and trade unions, but above all for the working conditions in the particular packing room.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to discuss in this House very specific cases which we probably do not know about. I have listened with caution to what you have put forward on this particular occasion. If we look at the framework, it is a given that, first of all, freedom of trade is protected in our own country. There is Article 28 of the Constitution, there is Law 1264/1982, as it currently stands. The government with the recent development law has made arrangements to strengthen trade unionism strengthen the way the trade unions operate in our country. And with the register there is also a better transparency of what active trade unions are, and therefore there is a possibility for both the state and employers to have a clearer picture of who they are legalised by the provisions on freedom of movement. The company you are referring to, SELONTA, as far as we know, has a thousand two-two employees. It has faced great difficulties in recent years, major losses, major debt obligations, a thousand two-two jobs and what we have been aware of is also aware of the situation with regard to workers. Despite the damage it normally pays for, as every undertaking is obliged to do in our country. Why did the company finally dismiss five workers from the thousands of two hundred? It is something that the Ministry will see in the planned contacts that exist under existing legislation. Whether there were complaints against this worker on matters which are not related to his trade union activity is something we still do not know. There's nothing to show us the connection of dismissal to his trade union activity. I do not know for one thing whether this worker is actually elected, from what procedure and when, to what first or secondary trade union. However, we know that there is no primary trade union organization from which this trade union has been elected, so these are issues that we need to see. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the competent department of Argolis informed our Ministry on 29 October 2019. The local agency immediately invited the company and the trade union to come to its offices, a meeting which was originally scheduled for yesterday. The company's employee submitted on 1 November a request for a work dispute with regard to his dismissal - he claims and has every right to do so by trade union activity - which was also set for yesterday. We have been asked to postpone the procedure and will continue on 20-11-2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u42	You are causing me, Minister, to report to you as the Minister of Labour and not the Minister of Labour. And I say this because you were very specific about the accusations that the employer is making and very vaguely and in general and doubtful of whether this worker has a trade union status. You have fully adopted the agenda and the vocabulary of the employer, and that is a problem. That is the main problem. At the same time as you yourself contradict when you say that the Labour Inspectorate, the APRC, called the branch club, which you do not know if it exists, how it is elected. As if the first court in which the elections are held and the trade union is established is moving in other reasonable and procedural ways. But this is the anti-unionist and anti-unionist policy imposed by the government on the recent multi-legislative development plan, as it calls for. In other words, the government's electronic recording and control of trade unions and trade unions. In other words, to be a trade unionist, he must have the bogeyman of the state, the employer's license. That is what you tell us about the substance. So it is no coincidence that the employer there in the area, at "SELONTA", has taken so much air into her brains because exactly what she wants to break is the trade union movement. That is why there is no primary union, fearing that a factory union could be set up. That's what he wanted to prevent. At the same time there are huge complaints about working conditions, health and safety conditions. They had no drinking water and were carrying the water from their home. It did not provide personal protective equipment for the company to be able to do in a particularly unhealthy space, such as fish farms and, in particular, packing facilities, their work. And who's firing? The pioneer workers, those who are trade unionists, who participate in the mobilisations, those who claim and demand. Of course she's looking for several pretexts, just trying to create such situations through her cheeks, creating tensions. But there are very specific questions here, Mr Minister. And the trade union status is not disputed by the individual, and for trade union reasons he was fired because he complained about the dismissal of four colleagues. There is no reason here that there are no jobs. The contractor works properly. Loaning of workers is done. So what is the cause of these people being fired - and one of the four who were fired will come out of retirement in March - if it is not a question of terrorisation if it is not a question of dismissing the most innovative workers from the particular packing room? But, look out, he's going to come back with boomerangs. People say it has two ends of the stick. Let some people notice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u43	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u44	There is a case, Mr Colleague, which says 'no trials before you hear both myths'. In your place you were too subjective. You have tried the case, you have a final decision, you have decided. I was too objective. I didn't get anyone's seat. I'm saying there's a certain labour difference. That's what we agree. The OSCE has already been seized, so the Ministry of Labour has moved properly and legally, and there will be a discussion on the case on 20 November. You say that this official is an elected trade unionist and was released because of his trade union activity. I'm not questioning you. And I didn't say in my protology that you were wrong. I don't know the case file. It's a personal case. I do not know whether he has been dismissed for his trade union activity, so it is illegal and, of course, will be revoked, or whether there are other reasons why it is not a matter for the national delegation if they exist - I do not know if they exist - and I also do not know if I am hearing from you that this person is elected to a judicial body. I can hear you, I do not disagree, I simply cannot objectively confirm that before I have the EDP report. In conclusion, the Ministry of Labour will be initiated under its procedures, fully implementing the existing legislation, both for workers and for trade union action, will be judged by the relevant committee of the EIC because this dismissal has been made and if it is lawful beyond that, if the parties are not satisfied with the decision of the EIC, you know, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a way of civil justice to ask the employee in question if he believes that he has been wronged his legal compensation. The government of course continues and is a stable position in our country to support trade union action.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The first, with number 202/11-11-2019, topical question for the second cycle of MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Andreas Michaelides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Announcement of a document 2016 on the employment of pensioners of NAT to AEN", will not be discussed after consultation of the Minister with the MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u46	He'll be back in another day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u47	Yeah, yeah, maybe another date. Continue with the third with No 212-12-11-2019 topical question by MP B3 South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Illegal operation of the PHARMALINE S.A. warehouse" based in Koropi, 2nd Km. Laurel. Markopoulos (industrial zone)’. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that when a trade unionist is elected to a trade union sector, he will notify his election to both employers and workers' inspection. You were therefore required to know that this particular trade unionist is indeed an elected trade unionist in the Argolida branch. So there is no justification for what you said 'I do not know'. So to come to this question and it is worth discussing when it actually goes one step further or you are going to answer specifically questions relating to workers. It concerns the question of the illegal operation of the pharmaceutical industry "PHARMALINE S.A." for the last five months, according to the complaints made by the workers unparalleledly and on Saturday day, without having so far received the necessary permission from the Municipality of Coropio, according to what is, of course, the Code of Municipalities and Communities. This illegal operation has been reported on several occasions by the competent police department following intervention by the State trade union of the workers. It is obvious, Minister, that all this time this operation violates the established time of operation of the pharmacies set from Monday to Friday 8.00 p.m. to 16.00 p.m. and Saturday 8.00 p.m. to 14.00 p.m., according to the annual table of pharmacopoeias. At the same time, the company violates the working hours of the workers defined accordingly by the sectoral collective agreement until the last signed, while, as you know after the reinvigoration, these conditions are individual working conditions for workers in this area. We must, of course, say that the individual contracts signed by the company with the workers include these conditions. Individual contracts. So they too are violated by the employer. The Pallenipotentiary, in which the question was complained about by the workers' union, did not take a stand on this employer's violation even though it is clear. In other words, the company should call on the workers to work every Saturday, when it does not have a corresponding leave for that day. We ask you, Minister, what measures you intend to take in order to ensure the working hours of the workers, in accordance with the existing collective agreement and the individual contract terms of the workers in this undertaking, and to stop the illegal operation of the pharmacopoeia, because they are others in Attica, as are the company in question on Saturday. We're waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, as regards the question of the operating hours of the operation, the Municipality of Copea is responsible. The permit for the operation of a warehouse is granted by the EOF and the municipalities set the operating hours, start-ups and solution, and work on Saturday. But let's start over. On 23 September the sectoral syndicate reported an circumvention of the working hours of the above undertaking on Saturday, without obtaining permission from the Municipality of Copea, and requested a labour dispute. There is, however, no complaint from the employees of the company, to write it down. On 10 October the work difference was made in the presence of all the parties involved and on behalf of the company it was stated that the pharmaceutical store employs twenty-two employees who work with six-day hours from Monday to Saturday, i.e. forty hours a week. It was also found that the last collective labour agreement of 2009, which was in force on 19 January 2010, and also that the branch contract of pharmaceutical undertakings is not in force for the employees of the company as its business was established in May 2013. In any case, national general collective agreements establishing compulsory forty hours of work, either five-day or six-day, are applicable at the discretion of the employer. The decisions of the Region of Attica concerning the authorisation of the storage facility which is in force, as well as from the 20-4-2015 request for notification of the company to the Cope Municipality's licensing department on the operation of the store on Saturday day, were sent to establish the hours. Since 2015 - and this is a matter - the municipality has not answered. To date, the Municipality of Kroppia has not responded and thus the SPA of Palliani forwarded the file to the Municipality of Kroppio, a licensing department for health stores, in order to establish the relevant hours by the municipality. The Labour Relations Review Department of the Eastern Attica Regional Directorate on 9 November last Saturday carried out an audit on the PHARMALINE S.A. operation and found that the operation was closed and did not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you said there was no complaint from the workers. So, the sectoral syndicate itself, without a complaint from the employees, is making this appeal to the APRC, creating the problem, coming to you and putting a question? So on his own, without a complaint from the workers? What are you talking about? Who told you that? Who confirmed this to you, the employer? You confirm everything my partner Nikos Karathanasopoulos said earlier that you are an employer. You're saying that the operation has six days. The individual employment contracts signed with the employees are Monday to Friday. Did they bring you individual contracts that are from Monday to Saturday? Oh, no. So you're lying, that's Monday to Friday. You are also saying that the collective agreement of the Pharmaceutical Officers was terminated in 2010. However, these conditions are individual conditions of the worker's contract, since no other contract has been signed. Unless you think that's not the case. In other words, one more counter-terrorism on your part is that if the contract was terminated, no individual conditions exist for the workers. But what's this? Tell us and that we should know, that the workers know, too. You say that in May 2013 the operation was set up. So there was no contract then. In other words, these terms which sign the individual employment contract with the employer, which are the terms of the collective agreement, do not apply? What is it to say was created after the termination of the contract in 2010, when the terms of the individual contract refer to the terms of the collective agreement applicable to the officials of the pharmaceutical industry? You are also saying that since 2014, the company has notified the city’s licensing department of its willingness to operate on Saturday. So, with a notification, is the company working? Shouldn't it be licensed? Based on the framework to date, in order for it to function, it has to get permission. It can't work illegally. The municipality of Copea, therefore, did not give the permission, because it considers that it should not give the permission, while you consider that after it had been notified to the municipality its will to operate on Saturday, so it must work, even if it is illegal. What am I supposed to say about that? I can't understand it. I am beyond me, that is, this reasoning of yours, that of yours. You're saying the city hasn't answered. He didn't answer because he doesn't give permission. That's clean. You're saying the APRF has exhausted its ability to send the file to the municipality. What about the illegality of the APRC? For the illegal operation, for the illegal enforcement of workers' employment, and on Saturday what is he doing about it? Should it not impose at least the fines provided for? So why are you tolerated or imposed on the APRC not to impose the legal fine on the company or to close the operation on Saturday? These are all issues. They listen to them and to the workers, they draw their conclusions on what is really the policy, which defines your attitude towards the designs of business groups. It's the only goal and criterion of your policy. This is your objective and on this basis we are leveling every worker's working and insurance right. However, workers will not stop fighting, organizing and demanding what they are entitled to. And, of course, they deserve everything, even the prospect, which will completely relieve this problem that they are facing today, to produce the wealth and the others to fruit him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u53	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u54	First of all, Mr Colleague, this government's priority is to strengthen the Greek economy and to create better and stable jobs. That is our priority, and that is why we also started with the development law, which I referred to in the previous question. Mr Colleagues, like the previous colleague of the JRC who has raised this question, you are presenting a problem which you are dealing with at the same time and making a decision. This is something that we as the Ministry of Labour are not prepared to make up to the audit bodies, which are properly in place and operating, to reach a decision and cases which ultimately go to justice, to have a final judicial decision. That was also the case in the debate we had on SELONTA, the same applies to the particular warehouse you ask me about. I specifically told you it was an operation that we checked on last Saturday and found it closed. We have told you that it is an operation whose hours are fixed by a municipal decision, and it actually goes beyond me because for four years there is no decision to reject it, nor is there a positive decision. That's a big deal. A company in Greece cannot ask the local municipality in 2015 for permission to do something and for four years not to get an answer, nor to be rejected. If they rejected it, I would understand it if they were told after two weeks 'your application is rejected, you cannot do what you request'. This would be fair and would also have the right for the company to resort where it is entitled to, to the administrative courts. For four years then, they have not answered. That's something we need to see. It's very important. Now let's go and what we're doing as a ministry. On 13 November, the company and the trade union, cosmetics and related professions resumed their work to a second degree on Saturday. I am also passing on to you when I told you before that there is no complaint of workers, I mean to the Ministry of Labour. If the workers who went to the union...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u55	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u56	I'm not questioning that the syndicate, to intervene, did someone inform them? Inside an operation outside of business, from other businesses, other employees, someone informed them. In any case, however, I tell you that in the APRC, in the Labour Inspectorate, there is no complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u57	Excuse me, but what do you mean by other businesses? That the syndicate plays a role between business?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u58	I'm saying the syndicate is very specific...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u59	The syndicate plays a role between business?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u60	I said something very simple. Who denounced the syndicate means that anyone could have denounced the syndicate. Well, he did, the union's doing the job. If anyone informs the union with a complaint, he will not look for who did it, well he did, but yesterday the company submitted eighteen workers' contracts with six-day and 40-hour work to the secondary committee. So, they're eighteen employees they've signed that they want to work on Saturdays. Thus it appears that it has also been reflected in the existing electronic system. It is clear that the control mechanisms, which fall within the Ministry, control the legality of working hours, the working hours, whether they are forty-six days or six hours, rather than the operating hours of the firm, which is not a matter for the Ministry of Labour whether it has the local leave. To date, it has not been reconciled with the Ministry, as such a request is submitted to the APRC and even to the nearest service in the workplace, which can be understood on the ground. The Ministry's Collective Arrangements Directorate is not headed by the services of the APRC to examine the union's disagreement with the work paper or, most importantly, to be the subject of a conciliation procedure. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Before moving on to the issues of the special agenda in the legislative work, we will have a short break.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-nine students and students and three educational sessions, from the 1st Palama Carditsa High School. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the special agenda of LEGISLATION Discussion and vote under Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Parliament on the proposal by the President of Parliament: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, Part II and Part Parliament". Before I propose the structure of the debate, I would like to make a communication which reads as follows: Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 November 2019 and ask this House to approve the relevant decision on the provision of telecommunications equipment and information equipment, as there is a large number of new colleagues who must have the support as soon as possible and the necessary logistics. I said in particular to new colleagues and remind you that the last time new colleagues received electronic equipment from the House, electronic support from the House was in 2015 and the last time they all received a whole new or old MEP was in 2009. Therefore, given the development of technology, we have a long time to help colleagues on modern electronic equipment. At the same time, as I have informed the Conference of Presidents, the House will continue to support IT schools and structures in remote areas. Does the House agree with the above-mentioned decision of the Conference of Presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u64	So the House unanimously approved this decision. I would ask that the abovementioned decision of 7 November 2019 of the Conference of Presidents be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u65	We are continuing on the agenda on the proposal by the President of Parliament to amend the Rules of Procedure. I propose that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should take the floor, if they wish, for five minutes. That is the structure of the debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u66	The House has agreed. This is why the rapporteur of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Tragakis, a member of the Piraeus Region, has for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I take this opportunity to clarify a few things that concern Parliament's operation in general. First of all, I would like to reply - and to make it known to the public - about the empty chairs of this House which are often blamed for us. Let us explain that at a time when we meet in plenary there are six committees and there are eight other special committees, special standing committees, which have fifty members in the standing committees and the others are of twenty-five or more. So you realise that there are subcommittees, that a number of colleagues at this time, but they are always in their committees, and that is why the spectacle is being presented and comments are made on this. The second point I would like to make is that of Members of Parliament. I have been chairman of the committee for many years. Everyone believed that the control of Members of Parliament’s place was carried out by the Members themselves. Isn't that right? The Members of Parliament's ‘undertakings’ are audited by auditors as they do in all the public sector, the private companies that submit their report. The report also went to a committee in which there were judges from the highest courts in the country. It was then improved and the majority of judges were taken, and we say, let us go to the Court of Auditors, we have no objection to that in order not to give rise to that impression. The other impression that arises - and here I would like to thank the services of this House, especially those who are night together because many people think that once Parliament's circuit is closed, the House is closing. It's not like that. The officials of this House when the circuit is closed are more than three to four hours, all so that what we have discussed can be worked out and the report and the conclusions can be drawn. That's not all. So these three cases I wanted to clarify and I now come to the point. First of all, I would like to say that the committee unanimously - and it is to the credit of all the parties - has passed this amendment, the partial amendment, the slightest objections to the Rules of Procedure, and the articles which I shall make in order not to take the floor after that, Mr President, I shall continue working on the articles to facilitate the debate. When the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament were first elected in 1974, it was about thirty - eight pages, if I am not mistaken. I am referring to the parliamentary part. Now the Rules of Procedure are hundreds of pages because during the post-population period, and here all the Presidents, but all the Presidents, have contributed independently to the preparation, improvement, modernisation, of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the first concerning the parliamentary part, but also to the second part concerning the establishment plan and the organisation of Parliament. Now on the provisions which are to be discussed today. First of all, it's clarification. The President-in-Office's assurance that in a short time there will also be a considerably greater amendment of the Rules of Procedure concerning the parliamentary part, but the second part of the Rules of Procedure relating to the establishment plan will also be covered. In what we are dealing with today, I will make a few comments, first of all, on the one hand, because I said that I am not going to take the floor again: Article 1 allows Parliament's services to function better in the performance of the heads of state, namely horizontal movements which - please listen to me - have the principle of reciprocity, and that is of great importance, in other words, following the clarification of the President - that is, it makes almost voluntary, because there are many gaps which need to be covered directly. The second article regulates the vacancy of head of staff if, for any reason, the Head leaves. There is such a case and the way it was chosen is to give it potentially or to go through the board and to create those conditions. I shall now say that, as far as the evaluation is concerned, a great deal of work has been done in this House. First of all, we are the first to evaluate the public sector. So the evaluation, which is being carried out, gives the guarantees that we can say that a good assessment has been made. There are, however, cases where there will be some corrective actions. These corrective actions are referred to in Article 2. Article 3 regulates certain issues which are issues of the Ministry of Finance, wages, etc. It's nothing special. Article 4 applies only to three Members of Parliament who have taken political positions and for some reason can be used in parallel duties. It can be done. Article 5 refers to the possibility of a contract with the Greek State in respect of the tenders pursuant to Directive 24/2014/EC. The House has indeed acquired a system of electronic procurement monitoring, but because it is not yet complete - we are talking about KIMIDIS and EISIDIS - so that we can have it at the stage of the procedure, when the electronic system of Parliament is completed, they will also come to Parliament. Because the House has the self-interest. And I will repeat it once again: the House is self-sufficient. Article 6 is a matter of injustice, which I think is corrected. In Article 7, it is a matter for the Scientific Council, the Chairman of the Scientific Council and the Scientific Committee and the scientific collaborators on a point of order. Rule 8 again refers to Parliament's relations with the ADP. When our electronic system works, we will be able to access the AIA online. Article 9 removes an injustice which has been committed and which is corrected. Article 10 refers to the commitment made by the Government and implemented by the Parliament that it will give a place for the Commission "Greece 2021" and whoever has already been found. Rule 11 concerns the clothing of the security staff of the House. That's typical, too. The only thing that is in the parliamentary part is Article 12. Article 12 refers to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which we do not forget is a committee which is doing a great deal of work. Why don't you forget that all the reports, the half-yearly, the annuals of all the agencies, are being checked there and it has a great deal of work to do. In conclusion, I would like to make a request to the new Members. The Rules of Procedure of the House are not learned as much as to memorize it if you do not sit down to attend the sittings of the House. Parliament's meetings are the best teacher to learn the Rules of Procedure of the House. Believe me, this is a real experience and experience that I carry for decades. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Tragakis. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Zachariadis, is called at Step. Mr President, Mr Voutsi, whenever you want to speak, you tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in fact the climate of this committee's meeting over time and traditionally is synthetic and consensual, because this is the only way Parliament can function effectively. Indeed, most of the issues facing this change in the Rules of Procedure are procedural in nature and, to the vast majority, we agree, because they correct weaknesses which were in existence and make adjustments which have to do with Parliament's current functioning and future functioning. So we in the whole are voting in favour of this change. Clearly, and I will explain immediately - we have in relation to Article 1. Mr Tragakis was also told at the meeting in committee that as a parliament the previous administration completed with a remarkable system of crises of heads of organic units, according to a prototype prototype for public data, and brought the House very much ahead of a process. I say again that it is good that this is recognised by all the sides of the House. However, this provision, which comes to be added to today, cancels both the letter and the spirit of this well-known groundbreaking process that we had in the previous period. It has been said to the committee that there will be no unreasonable use of the provision, that there will be no great movements, etc. We in no way question intentions or faces. But when we legislate, we have to legislate. Today's administration in this House, which we supported with our vote, has a good intention, good option. We must look neutrally, and that is why, in our view, we also call it abrogated in substance and in the spirit of this innovative direction. We are opposed and I think that anyone in this House is aware of this. What do we suggest? We propose to leave the report 'without an opinion of a Board of Directors' and replace 'with the agreement of the respective collective bodies which have chosen them'. With this link, and with this provision, we ensure that anyone in the present or future will not be able to abuse the right that the provision gives without that security. Article 2 has to do with the extraordinary replacement procedure until the crises occur. In fact, many times such a point arises, and in such matters of a procedural nature, we need to speed up the procedures and we are positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u70	For the rest of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u71	Yeah. For the rest of the year, until the new crises occur and we go to the new process. Article 3 restores certain technical and bureaucratic difficulties and failures, so we are positive about that too. Article 4 makes use of a wealth which exists in the House of staff and known political and technocratic issues, so we are also positive. In Article 5, indeed, the House must have its own autonomy and independence with regard to its systems. At the present stage, however, we are facilitated by the use of the know-how of existing systems, until the House has created its own structures and infrastructure. In the previous period with the technical and technological modernisation of the Parliament, great steps have been taken and this must continue in the next period. With regard to Rule 6, we are positive about the standards of all the heads of the services in this House and where Article 6 refers to them, because of their increased responsibility, to enjoy the same jobs and relationships. In Article 7, which has to do with the suggestion of the Parliament's Scientific Service for the best operational organisation of services, we are positive. In Article 8, as has already been mentioned, which concerns the budget, the accounting systems of the AIA and the annual economic cycle and there, in order to avoid such difficulties, we are positive. In Rule 9 we are also positive because it enables the regional parliamentarians to choose where they want to make use of the infrastructure that the House gives to all Members, on the basis of their potential. Article 10 shall refer to the Commission ‘Greece 2021’. We are also positive. And in Article 11, which deals with equipment and clothing, we are positive. In Article 12 we are also positive. So we are positive in all the articles, positive in all and negative in Article 1, for the reasons I have explained. And I think that in a spirit of synthetic and consensual we can go to unanimity, although only if you adopt a provision that also gives someone who is cautious - because I do not believe that there are bad intentions in this Chamber - that it will not be possible to abuse the letter or the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u72	After Mr. Zachariadis, the special speaker of the Movement of Change and MP Artis Mr. Christos Gokas is called in Step. Mr Goka, before I give you the floor, let me announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the "Democracy Workshop", eighteen students and students and two educational escorts from the 6th Grade School of Painter. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr Goka, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament as the top representative institution of the service of the Constitution and of the functioning of our democracy must obviously ensure in the most excellent way and application of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, as it determines the organisation and functioning of its institutions and services, are a text strictly prescribed and the criteria for any change must be targeted, long-term breath, i.e. depth, perspective and time-consuming application and value. Of course, we understand that there are issues in need of intervention, correction and improvement. However, we will insist on our previous remark, namely the restriction, on the absolutely necessary interventions that address practical operating issues, covering unforeseen or resulting cases. In this spirit, it must be stressed that our ultimate objective, ladies and gentlemen, must be independence in the time of this most important instrument, which is the Rules of Procedure, independence from interventions with a short-lived horizon or under pressure which could in some cases be characterised as a case-by-case. The amended provisions should not be incoherent, fragmented, nor contain contradictory arrangements, in particular in relation to existing ones, in order not to cause malfunctions. They must be the product of a thorough study and consensual procedure resulting from the cooperation of all the institutions. On the basis of what I have said, we have studied the articles proposed for amendment and our decision is to vote 'yes' in Articles 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10 and'residences' in the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u74	We were surprised by Mr. Giokas in his assent. Mr Pafilis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u75	In principle, we agree. These are changes which improve certain things, such as operation, but also issues relating to the officials of the House. So, to be brief in terms of the articles, we do not agree with Article 1, which I said and in the debate that we had in committee. In Article 7 on evaluation, we are voting 'at present' in the sense that we have a more general political view, we have said it many times, on the question of evaluation, and it is not purely about the Scientific Council, but it is a more general view. In fact, there has been a lot of discussion over this for many years. That is why we shall vote 'the present'. We will also vote in Article 12 for the well-known view that there is no need for compensation for participation in parliamentary committees. This is a more general opinion we have. We don't think that's a terrible thing to do. As far as the other articles are concerned, we agree and vote on them. So I don't have to take any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u76	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u77	Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u78	In relation to the changes that are taking place, shouldn't we have something to let us know? The changes you are proposing here for the Rules of Procedure, Part II, Parliament, have not been shared either with the Members or with them. Only the rapporteurs have them in their hands, and the rapporteurs must take pictures of them and give them to us. So there's a sense, which I want to express to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u79	There's a bookie ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u80	Yes, there is a booklet - what is already voted on - but the changes have not been given to everyone. Do you have them in your hands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u81	There has been a report from the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u82	I understand what you mean, Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u83	There's no climate that's between us. That feeling is given to me, that we're going to not seem anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u84	There is an answer to that, Mr Colleague. So you compare to the bills. This is not exactly the procedure of the bills, because this is an internal procedure in Parliament. It has the type of bill, it has the validity of the law as soon as it takes FEC, but these have been given to the parties already since the committee meeting for days. In other words, it is not something that is revealed today. It's known what changes we're going to make. And it is a matter of the parties then to inform them. However, the Rules of Procedure of the House do not have the same procedure as the bills. But all this is accessible to everyone. I understand your suggestion, and I'll take it into consideration. Mr. Voutsi, do you now want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u85	If the rapporteurs are finished, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u86	No, we have Mrs. Athanasios from Greek Solution and then Mrs. Bakadima from Mera25. Mrs Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the proposed changes to the Rules of Procedure, I shall begin with Rule 1. We support and agree with every procedure that promotes the improvement of the functioning of the services of the Parliament, so we vote 'yes'. We also agree with Article 2 with regard to the immediate need to fill the vacant head, but we reserve the choice of the person who will be appointed to take over the specific tasks and the procedures to be followed. In Article 3 we say 'yes'. And Article 4 also agrees with us. We also call 'yes' to Article 5. In Article 6, as a Greek Solution, we agree to re-establish the relevant arrangement for the benefit of the fortress and submarine, because after the liquidation, the allowance does not in the end exceed EUR 250 and 150 respectively, the sums for the provision of these people who are here from morning to night and their human needs are economically increased. In Article 7, we agree with this provision and, of course, we agree with Article 8, the House alone, to be able to seek tax information from the rightholders, financial orders and Parliament to speed up procedures. In any case, we think there should be a final deadline for payment of the orders, as already provided. We agree with Rule 9 with regard to the Members' chambers. In Article 10 we disagree because we do not agree with the person chosen to organise this fact and it has been sent a letter from our party, which clarifies our positions and objections. In Rule 11, we agree to extend the arrangements of beneficiary clothing items to the security services of the House. We, as a Greek Solution, consider their offer to us. We appreciate the fact that they keep our lives all of us and say that they must be guaranteed their decent appearance and their protection by providing them with the necessary equipment. Finally, for the last article, we are positive. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Athanasios. The reason is now the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr. Fotini Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority of the proposed amendments mainly concern procedural issues, and that is why we could only agree and vote in favour. For the time being, I will only be allowed to dwell on four articles on which we had expressed our reservations from the outset. In particular, Article 4 provides for the possibility of carrying out parallel duties within a House of officials or officials. However, because we consider that it leaves open the possibility of a misappropriation of this provision, we have to put it down negatively. We also have a negative attitude toward Article 7, because we consider that it ultimately undermines the role of Parliament's Scientific Office, since it is no longer obliged to draw up an assessment and a report on each bill but can do so. I had already expressed our reservations about Article 10, which refers to the disposal by the House of an area in the Committee on 'Greece 2021'. But all this brings us quite intensely to mind a period when we all remember, in 2004, and all the smuggling of public money that took place at that time. It is something we consider that if we were to do now, that is, if we had the same expenditure, we are afraid that the already anemic economy in our country could not bear it. We therefore find it positive that an area is granted which has already been leased by Parliament, so that we do not have any extra costs. We shall therefore vote in favour of that. The last article we were concerned with is Article 12, which talks about granting the President of the House the opportunity to define and increase - a little, as you yourself said in the meeting - the number of paid meetings of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u90	The crowd of meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u91	Yes, that's what I said, Mr. President. The crowd of meetings. We believe that Parliamentary status is in no way inconsistent with the concept of cost of opportunity. The MP is not someone who is doing so thanks to society, so he needs compensation, but he is a servant of society and of the citizens who have to carry their problems and needs, as are proposed solutions to the National Representation. We will therefore vote 'no'. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Rules of Procedure - and I agree with Mr Tragakis on this - are, moreover, much older than I am, I am only three months old - it is not a text that is sufficient to memorize it and undeniably, there is always room for improvement. That is why we, as a PART25, are already working on proposals for amendments to articles, in particular Part I, which I think will soon be ready for me to bring them to your knowledge, Mr President, and the members of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Parliamentary representatives, i.e. Mr Lebanese, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, Mr Pafilis, Mr Heitas and Mr Gregoriadis, are now entitled to speak. Who of the Parliamentary Representatives would like to speak? Nobody. We're okay. Mr. Pachilis, anyway, spoke to him beforehand. So, Mr President, Mr Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, I want to talk about two articles, one and 10. For Rule 10, I would like to make a comment and say a question which I have and, in any case, to be written about the Minutes. There is a serious objection to Article 1, to which I shall refer. Article 10 concerns the disposal of rooms, etc. for the Commission ‘Greece 2021’. I do not understand why such a provision should enter the Rules of Procedure of the House. This concerns a work that will be done and in which the House has already been assisted by the Presidential Decree you have accepted that there will also be access to the Foundation's resources to finance the central work of the Commission 'Greece 2021'. There is also a contribution and synergy with the Scientific Committee and the Foundation of the Republic of Parliament, which we are in the lead of. These have been resolved, i.e. the main issue of Parliament's close cooperation, in this case. So, something about the timing, that is, for a year and a half, obviously with a mandate of your own, that certain spaces may be provided for the purpose of operating this committee, which, in any case, will be working with the institution, should not, in my opinion, be included in the Rules of Procedure. Because then it'll be removed. It will end "Greece 2021", these people will leave. I do not understand why it is part of the Rules of Procedure, because there is this need. In that sense, I put it to you, to clarify it. Because the substance has already been impressed that there will be cooperation. On that occasion, I would like to say that I think that the House is right to continue what we had achieved with an internal circular, the strictness of us at the disposal of the premises of the House, I mean the Senate and other places. I would like you to know - I say this for younger colleagues in the Chamber - that in the past the House has been under constant pressure from seats of private universities, from cinemas or directors, from committees, from NGOs - reasonable - to use its spaces to make conversations, to make tours of students, and to have discussions and assimilations with the 'democracy mother', etc. Applications were so many.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u94	We'd wait our turn for a meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u95	Not only, Mr President. It was all for money too, it was for reward. Let's get to know each other. They are seats of universities from abroad that put it in their schedule, as tourist offices put, and they put the temple of democracy. In this regard, in good time and in a unanimous way, we have come to the conclusion that the House is giving its space only to university institutions in the country, i.e. to recognized university institutions, to the Academy, to large chambers, to constitutionalists. That's it. And I think it is right that I say this on the occasion of the debate that there will be space available for Greece 2021, because it is also a precedent if we give some of them a chance. I now come to Article 1. Allow me to express, and you know that very well, 'the way to hell is with the best of intent'. Even if you have assured that this is not about your term of office, or do not have to take into account some of the heads of state, directors, directors and others who, through an impeccable procedure, have taken up these positions and have taken them somewhere else, whether or not mutually or otherwise, that this will be included in the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, the possibility, in the end and after the crises, that we can move internally to the level of directors, directors, directors, etc., in fact, as an incentive, as a pretext, someone else at a later date, Mr President, to begin such an action and move such a move. I am sure that this will create, in addition to all others, an insecurity, a reflection within all the Members of this House who, in this way, think in one year or one and a half, are going to be done again - they are taking up these positions. Now, in the case of work that one of these gentlemen or ladies want to move or cannot move to the area, it is clear that there are, either in the Rules of Procedure or in the Civil Service Code, all the clauses so that they can be made available to another service or in another way, that is, if something serious has happened, an ad hoc movement. The Rules of Procedure must not open up this hole, open this way, open this way - in the bad sense of the outlet - from an extremely important point of view, as Mr Tragakis and you have said at the Conference of Presidents, a process which has begun and which will continue in Parliament. I personally ask you to withdraw this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u96	Is there another colleague who wants to talk? Nobody. So I can say two words from my place. I'd go down if it was something more extensive. Firstly, with regard to the question of the provision in Article 10 on the possibility of renting spaces on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which is probably not going to work, because, as I know, there are sponsors of space, I would like to say: we have put it in order that the committee will not remain uneasy. However, there is already a availability of space from the private sector for this committee. However, we put it at risk because we did not put it in the House for a year and a half, because it does not involve direct staff in this House. It was for purely formal reasons, namely the authorisation of expenditure, and we had no reason to risk it. I would like you to know, however, that this Parliament's cooperation with the Committee on Greece 2021, which is first set up under the law of the 'final state' - to celebrate the two hundred years - the composition of the Committee on Greece 2021 and its cooperation with Parliament, was provided for in detail in the Presidential Decree 96/2019, in which - apart from providing for cooperation with the Foundation of the Parliament - the Foundation of the Parliament, following the liquidation of this committee, which is to be held in 2021, which has its own legal status and has already been announced by a great sponsor - and the National Bank, will be the universal successor to the assets of this committee. If there is something that will be signed, it will come to the ownership of the House in general. This is in Article 10, which may not have to be applied. We just have this possibility so that the rent can be completely legal. Now, I understand the reservations of Mr Zachariadis and particularly of the President, Mr Voutsi, who has more experience in these matters on Article 1. And I had a reservation, a thought for Article 1. But you should be aware that this horizontal, any moving of heads will only be done in the event of emergency, provided for in the Rules of Procedure that we are voting on, and if mutually agreed. Even the 'universal', which is the simplest form, in the current legal situation that we have, cannot be settled. Therefore, you can be sure that this will not be done either against the coronary and will be done exactly as it describes, that is, for extraordinary reasons and on grounds of reciprocity. The proposal to involve the Special Selection Committee for Heads of Administration, which is involved in the selection process of heads, is disproportionate, in my opinion. You can imagine that this committee has Vice-Presidents of the Parliament in it and has external factors, in relation to Parliament, such as the President of the National Centre for Public Administration and Government. So, you can imagine that, in order to make a simple, mutual, emergency change, a House which is seven-membered and consists of the highest actors in this House and some outside the House must be set up. I think it is a disproportionate contingency for something that is simple, for something that will become absolutely individual, and for something that will not cause any disruption and insecurity for the staff. I also wanted to say on the various articles that we are facilitating equal treatment of staff, because we extend the allowance to two members of the Parliament's Guard and the clothing taken by the officials and the officers of the House. We also have the possibility for the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which is an important committee, in view of its mission to be able to meet more than twice a month in my own decision. And, obviously, "more" does not mean hundreds, but another or another two meetings on the same terms, which are the two already approved meetings. Furthermore, with the regulation of Article 3, we are able to correct a mistake made in the implementation of a circular on employee wage issues. Also on these issues will the President of Parliament intervene to double-check these issues and avoid mistakes which, if they are trustworthy, it is important to correct and ensure more control of the implementation of wage policy through the circulars, which are often incomprehensible and complex, so a second eye always facilitates us. These are the arrangements I introduce before you. The parties' views have been heard, the legitimate and credible reservations have been heard. So I would now like to move on to the voting process. The debate on the proposal by the President of Parliament is closed: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, Part II and Part Parliamentary". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of the President's proposal and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the proposal - such as bills, in principle - twelve articles, the farewell article and the whole proposal. Each time on the screen - because there will be an electronic vote - they appear as four articles to be voted on. To vote on the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. This is called'scroll down' for the very advanced in technology. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. I mean, because it's twelve, if you vote four, you'll see eight and then four. Make sure you have passed all the articles, the hotel and the whole. After you register your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau, so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u97	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the outcome of the electronic vote. In principle, the proposal was adopted unanimously. Article 1 was voted by a majority. Article 2 was adopted unanimously. Article 3 was adopted unanimously. Article 4 was voted by a majority. Article 5 was adopted unanimously. Article 6 was voted by a majority. Article 7 was voted by a majority. Article 8 was adopted unanimously. Article 9 was adopted unanimously. Article 10 was voted by a majority. Rule 11 was voted by a majority. Article 12 - the Chamber - was voted by a majority. On the whole, the proposal was adopted unanimously. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u99	Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: "To amend the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Part II (Government Gazette 51 A/10.4.1997) and Part Parliamentary (Government Gazette 106 A/24.6.1987)" was accepted in principle by the articles and by a majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to give its approval to the Bureau for the ratification of the minutes in respect of the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u101	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary SPECIFIC PROVISIONS a. Only discussion and approval of Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2018. b. Only debate and vote of Parliament's Budget Expenditure Plan for the financial year 2020. Parliament's decisions were passed in the relevant Committee on Economic Affairs by a majority of 4/5 of the total number of members. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 108(1) and (6), they may be voted on by the House without a debate. I suggest, however, if they wish, the rapporteurs and special speakers to speak for five minutes, the parliamentary representatives for five minutes and colleagues who may be on the list of speakers for five minutes, not necessarily, but if they so wish. The committee's four-fifths allow us to take it lightning, but it is good that they want to talk, talk. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u103	The House has agreed. The rapporteur for the majority and Member of Parliament, Mr Stefanos Gikas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. The debate and the preparation of Parliament's budget, as well as the auditing of the accounts for a financial year, is not a dry technical process, but it is our obligation. We must contribute to transparency and to informing citizens about the overall budget management, Parliament's activities, but also the remuneration and compensation in general. In this way, we contribute to protecting the authority of the House. Let's go, now, to the draft Parliamentary expenditure budget for 2020. The budget for expenditure under Rule 120 of the Rules of Procedure is therefore introduced in plenary. The expenditure we are considering has been proposed by the various relevant departments of Parliament and then the financial services have been processed and approved by the relevant institutions. It is noted that the main objective of the Parliament's budget for 2020 is, of course, the efficient functioning of the House in a modern, multifactorial - I would say - political and administrative institution of the Hellenic Republic. It is noted that the effective functioning of the House is directly related to the provision of services to Members of Parliament, but also to the citizens of the country. At the same time, Parliament is making a significant contribution to the effort to save budgetary resources and rationalise government operating expenditure, reducing any expenditure that is not considered necessary. This is already demonstrated by the overall budget figures, as it shows a decrease compared with last year, 2019, by 1.62%. The budget for the coming financial year is EUR 139.550,000 and is reduced by EUR 2.300,000, compared to the 2019 budget. Parliament's above-mentioned effort to reduce its operating costs as far as possible is evidenced by the fact that ten years ago, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliament's budget was 82.450,000 euros higher, more increased than the current one, amounted to 222,000 euros. It is worth noting that the Parliament's expenditure budget for 2020 covers the threshold of the Medium-term Financial Strategy Programme for 2020. This is our obligation. It should be noted that this objective is achieved even though there are additional charges, such as the cost of covering empty positions of scientific staff, as the relevant tender of the AACC is not expected to be completed in 2019. Secondly, the planned increase in the employer's contribution to the benefit of MEPs and officials by 33%. The transition of Parliament's permanent and poster employees to subsidiary insurance. Another charge is the change in Parliament's special salary for journalistic staff, and finally, the increase in housing costs, services and Members' offices due, of course, to the upward trend in property values. The 2020 budget shall be divided into seven categories. They're employee benefits. I won't go into the details, they're in front of you anyway. Benefits to workers, social benefits, transfers, purchases of goods and services, allocation credits, fixed assets and price. When we say honestly, we mean credit. In other words, for the purchase of works of art that is only 10,000 euros and is half of the 2019 budget that was 20,000. It is stressed that in this context the Parliament actively supports the work of the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, which is organising important and qualitative events, such as conferences, cultural events, and, among other things, actively participates in the celebration of the two hundred years since 1821. In addition, tours of citizens and students are increased in the Foundation's exhibitions, as well as in the Parliament's Library. In the coming financial year, the Parliament also takes the lead in another very important area, aiming at the promotion of new technologies and reducing the environmental footprint. In cooperation with the Directorate-General for the Environment, therefore, the House introduces a financial leasing programme for electric car parliamentarians and civil servants. This is a great initiative that we really hope will be accepted with enthusiasm. The high sponsorship programme for applicants for grants from bodies, institutions, initiatives, legal persons, educational institutions, etc. is maintained when they have something important to show. Finally, Parliament will continue to support and actively strengthen the development of international relations and parliamentary diplomacy and its efforts to maintain the historical memory and the emergence of humanitarian values. It is for this reason contributing to the creation of a permanent Greek exhibition at the Auschwitz State Museum in Poland. Two words now on Parliament's expenditure statement in 2018, Mr President, and I am closing with that. [[This is where the President-in-Office is occupied by the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis.]] Parliament's expenditure budget for 2018 was EUR 133.985.000, provided for four categories of expenditure for 2018, payments for services, payments for the supply of goods, transfer payments and various common or complex expenditure of ministries that have not been included in any of the general categories of the code. In the implementation of the 2018 budget, in accordance with Article 120(7), reasoned decisions were adopted by the President of the Parliament, as well as by the Ministry of Finance, resulting in a reduction in the appropriations of EUR 44,600.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Gika, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u106	Yes, Mr. President. In addition, EUR 300,700 was returned to the General Accounting Office and simply to say that after the end of the financial year 2018 the data was processed and the results were found to be accurate in the Financial Services Directorate of the Parliament and the information held in the General Accounting Office of the State. That's all I had to say, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two teachers - their attendants from the 1st Athens Gymnasium of Experimental Gymnasium. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from Parliament's wings]] By the time I call for the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Katsi, I would like to say this: Mr Ghika, electric cars are good, but I would add - all my fellow Members should listen to it - whether we should make the roof of this House green. To lead this and come after electric cars. It'll be more good in terms of well-sensitivity. I mean, yes, that's in that pod.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u108	And there is a study, Mr President, on the roof.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u109	Oh, there's a study! Mr. Katsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. And not only, I would like to contribute. A very significant reduction in the use of A4 paper has been made in recent years, both in terms of deposited bills and in terms of committees. The electronic voting system has come, so I think that all this savings need to be extended and as much as possible the paper use still to be further reduced. I think that we should go as far as possible to electronic solutions so that we can be more ecological on the one hand and in modern technologies on the other. As also, in my opinion, the House and all the buildings on which its services are based and housed should also have green recycling points and not only in Parliament's building, but also wherever offices and services are housed. I think that this will also be a good example and a sample of how Parliament itself first adopts green ecology practices and then calls for citizens to be brought into line with them. We are therefore moving on, ladies and gentlemen, today at a special plenary session and a debate on the Parliament's budget for the year 2020, and on the adoption of the Parliament's expenditure statement for 2018. The aim of a proper allocation of resources is to ensure that all the conditions are met, so that the operation of the House is more effective and that the services provided - in order to carry out the parliamentary work more fully - are more qualitative. Equally important is that Parliament operates in the light of the sound management of resources, absolute transparency in the procedures provided for, as well as in the modernisation and rationalisation of Parliament's overall functioning. We must not ignore the fact that the proper and crystallised functioning of this House is on the one hand a question of democracy and, on the other hand, a signal to society that the institutions are strong and our political system is credible. And as elected and honoured by the House in the position of the Quaestor of the House, I consider it important for all Members to highlight this all the time. In any case, we constantly bear in mind that our credibility depends not only on sound financial management, but also on respect for the rules that we have agreed and expressed in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We have also heard the financial information from my colleague, the rapporteur of the New Democracy. For our part, we want to point out as far as the accounting data for 2018 are concerned, how we see that the budget has been implemented faithfully, and so we do not have any particular remarks. As far as the 2020 budget is concerned, however, we see that it amounts to 139.550,000, slightly reduced by 1.62% compared to that of 2019. In addition, the 2020 budget shall be within the limits set by the medium-term budgetary strategy programme 19 22, as set out in the relevant decision of the Secretary-General of Parliament as of 1 November 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliament's budget, following the sharp decline in the last decade, as in 2009 it amounted to EUR 222 000 000, seems to find a new balance point, close to EUR 140,000 000. All these years it has been reduced following the most overall reduction in incomes and values, with a significant reduction in the costs of parliamentary compensation. I stress that the SYRIZA Government has made a significant contribution to the reductions in parliamentary compensation, as well as to the tax and insurance harmonisation of Members with what is happening to the rest of the workers. In addition, in these years, the provision for the reimbursement of parliamentary pensions has also been abolished. The relative populism expressed in particular by extreme right-wing bodies is not based on real elements, but above all on a trend towards an overall depreciation of the political system and their institutions. As we see in the 2020 budget plan briefly the budget expenditure, per major category, is as follows: employee benefits 109.625 000; social benefits 754 000; transfers 3,037, 000; purchases of goods and services 23,753 000; credits allocated to 100,000; fixed assets 228 000; price 10,000. On these major categories, looking more closely at expenditure by category, I will comment very briefly on the following: Firstly, we are observing a change in codification of copyright for the renting of television programmes, where compared to 2019 EUR 744,000 from one code and adding EUR 515 000 to the other code, thus ending at EUR 229 000 less. I would like to ask the House the following question: why do we have this difference and whether this is about a plan to reduce the television programme? I would stress that, because the station of Parliament is a qualitative oasis to Greek television, especially at the time when, in the other oasis, the ERT is observing by the new government a plan to reduce television content. Secondly, I would like to stress the positive fact that the expenditure is included in Parliament's coverage of the costs of creating a permanent Greek exhibition at the Auschwitz State Museum - Birkenau in Osviechim, Poland, for the victims of the Greeks in Auschwitz in a block 18 area, awarded by the museum. The initiative taken by the House was particularly important and resulted in the historic decision to fund in full the monumental work to create the permanent Greek exhibition, putting an end to the absence of seventy years of our country from the memory of Auschwitz. Such initiatives to maintain the historical memory and to highlight humanitarian values would also like to see from the new Parliament, as, among other things, they are developing multi-faceted international relations with a progressive and humanitarian sign. Thirdly, I consider the sponsorship programme important, particularly with regard to humanitarian actions, including the refugee issue, which is a bet on the country. Finally, I would like to point out that a modern Parliament must take outward action, not only in the context of diplomacy, but also in direct contact with civil society, by strengthening cooperation with social and cultural actors, in terms of measures to promote parliamentary and democracy. I would remind colleagues, for example, that since 2015 the Greek Parliament has established for the first time a prize awarded to contesters of the International Olympian Film Festival for children and young people in the creation of young people who promote human values. In line with this, Mr President, we are voting for the Parliament's budget for 2020 and we approve the Parliament's expenditure statement for the financial year 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Katsey. Mr President, because I have heard that there is an environmental line, it is good for electric cars, but we must start from the green on the roof.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Gikas told me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u113	I have also heard from Mr Amyras that there is a study. I did not know that, because there really must be a static study, but since Mr Amyras said that there is one, it would be very nice to do so. Mr. Christos Gokas from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking on an annual basis, such as every year, about the budget of the Greek Parliament, the parliament of the country that gave birth to democracy. Joint society and Parliament have experienced the crisis, they have realised that there are not the magicians who have brought everything to everyone and lived and still live the consequences of populism and incontinental demagogy. The Memorandum of Understanding is nothing but a past for the economy and above all for society and a great deal of work is needed to overcome the crisis. Indicatively, our obligations for high surpluses up to 2060 and the concession of public property for ninety years. Together, however, with the effort to correct the country and society, we must also talk about democracy, which has been tried and tolerated in the crisis. Along with her, the top institution of the Greek Parliament was tested. Parliamentary democracy, which has been operating for forty-five years since 1974, has brought about a period of peace, with major social and democratic changes and a significant rise in the standard of living in our country. We therefore have a duty these days to honour the Polytechnic anniversary, to honour those who have fought for this democracy that we have lived and live in our days, to speak away, thankfully, from the insults, which have also resulted in threats of hanging, for the functioning of democracy and, of course, for its cost. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that our democracy has problems and enemies. That is why we must clearly tell society that democracy has a cost and that other states, which seem to have no cost, cannot be compared to the benefits of democracy. It is a disgraceful difference in what the peoples and countries who have had democracy in relation to peoples who tolerate authoritarian or other regimes based on fascist ideologies have achieved. It is therefore our duty to ensure the validity of the institution of the House, to support the credibility of the institution and not to allow it to be remunerated. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the feasibility of the Parliament's operating expenditure? The House is called upon to meet the minimum requirements for the independent, without any commitments, political function of Parliament and support in the same way as Members' work. Does the House not have to ensure the possibility of equal opportunities for the representation of citizens by their representatives? Or will it be a privilege only of certain financially independent or theoretically subsidised, or dependent, to represent the people? It cannot, ladies and gentlemen, be the quality of our democracy. This, of course, does not mean that waste must be wasted and we have mentioned in the same debate, in the recent past, that the cost of operating democracy in our country is much smaller compared to other Western countries. That is why we must also see the limits for its effective operation. The Parliament's budget, that is, the cost of operating democracy, is at the estimated cost of EUR 139.055,000 for 2020 at about 0.25% of all state's budget expenditure, that is to say, the minimum cost for our democracy. Our prolongation, the PASOK, together with the difficult decisions that have taken on its own, completely, to tackle the crisis in the first period at least, has also sharply reduced Parliament's expenditure. In fact, over the period 2010-2014, the decrease was close to about 40%. It was at 38.7%, and then continued until 2018, at a somewhat lesser rate, reached 40.6% and today it is about 37.24%. From EUR 222,000 in 2009 it went to EUR 139,055,000 in 2020, i.e. EUR 82,500,000 less. As far as Parliament's compensation is concerned, which is also a great deal of talk, it has been reduced by around 40% by 2014, and the reductions have then reached 45%. At the same time, however, ladies and gentlemen, despite the continuing reduction in the Greek Parliament's budget, the House did not hesitate to charge its budget by EUR 7.850,000 last year, at EUR 5.84%, with the expenditure of auditors for the control of statements 'from the outset', which was still pending from previous uses. With regard to this expenditure, I have to stress that we are positive for control and the relationship of trust with society must be forged and strengthened more. We - let me say, once again as a party, with the PASOK governments, have made a number of decisions on political money, transparency and transparency everywhere - and in the House - on recruitment through PASP, on the 'outside', on the control of the parties' finances. We have not hesitated to send prostitutes and exotics to justice and it is good that all of this applies to everyone, without exceptions. I'll make one more comment. It is a good idea to provide for the use of non-polluting electric cars by this House, of course, which is a matter for the House, but which the government has asked to state for its own reasons. With regard to this year's budget, which we are discussing for approval, he is reduced by 1.36% compared to last year, while we note in the positive that expenditure on the work of the Foundation of the Greek Parliament has been included, with emphasis on the participation of the celebration of the two hundred years since 1821. We must bear in mind and support such expenditure. We owe it to our tradition and our history. I close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that on this basis and with a sense of responsibility, with confidence and by saying a great deal of thanks to Parliament's services, which have the responsibility of drafting the budget and, above all, of implementing it, but also of all the staff of the House, who supported Parliament's work in the new conditions that have arisen over the years, as a Change Movement, we are voting in favour of both the 2018 report and the 2020 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u115	As a special speaker, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos will speak from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing the Parliament's budget for 2020, as well as the accounts for 2018. Of course, the House is an urban institution, an institution which legislates on the basis of satisfying the needs of business groups, sacrificing the satisfaction of the people on this altar of profitability. It is legislation in the context of the armouring of the urban political system, namely a capitalist system which by its very nature, by its very nature, is exploiting, exacerbating social contradictions, collects the wealth produced in increasingly fewer hands and, of course, not only does it help, but it maintains the chains to avoid complete human liberation. The Parliament's budget is part of the state budget and that is precisely why it is being discussed earlier in order to be included in the 2020 State Budget. And from this point of view, it is clear that both Parliament's revenue and expenditure are adjusted, they are part of the medium-term budgetary planning. A medium-term fiscal planning which includes all the effects of anti-grass measures and the memorial laws of previous years, measures which also mark the lives of workers, youth, a whole range of popular strata. We may, of course, have typically come out of the memoranda, but neither these anti-grassroots measures have been cancelled nor, of course, has there been a restoration of the enormous losses. On the contrary, the effects of these barbaric measures continue until 2060 and we are seeing them afterwards. So the House's current budget for 2020 is also adapted to this tough medium-term financial framework. That is why we also have a further reduction in the Parliament's budget by about EUR 2 million. So if we look at him in detail, we will see that there is no substantial difference in the past, even though we now have a new majority, a new government. In particular, there is no special differentiation for at least the sizes that affect the standard of living of workers. From this point of view, therefore, we are saying clearly that the main issue for the JRC is the restoration of the enormous losses which workers have accepted not only of the House - but also of the House - the working class of our country as a whole and the rest of the populace. It is precisely these losses that must be the peak of the games that are unfolding, which will escalate even further, of course, only to restore the losses, but in order that the satisfaction of all the people's needs, which, in essence, leads to more overall ruptures and overturns, to changes in power, in the opinion of the JRC, which are necessary. This change in power will also form new popular institutions, such as the representation of the world, by forming such institutions that people's representatives will be elected by the workplaces, by these same workplaces of work and by those who have elected them, they will be accounted for and revoked by those who have elected them without particular privileges. That is the JRC's point of view for Members. That is to say, for a society and an economy where it will abolish the exploitation of people by human beings and where, in essence, an incentive to economic development will be to satisfy people's needs. In this context, Mr President, the JRC will vote 'white' this year for the Parliament's budget for 2020 and also for the 2018 report. It is a vote and does not relate, in relation to the balance sheet, to how these expenditures were made. I would like to point out once again that it is a political vote for this white account too. It is political and only the nature of our vote on the basis of what I have just said. That is why we are voting, once again, 'white' in both texts, both in the budget and in the balance sheet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u117	We're on our way with Mr. Villard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I will speak as a parliamentary representative, because Mr Villardos is taking part in the committee of inquiry. I won't be late. There are no irregularities. There is a reduction in the budget. We, as a Greek Solution, agree and vote in favour. But one idea, Mr President, Mr Tassoula, because we are voting for, we have closed this part so that we do not waste time and get to the bottom of it. Since I have just come out of the Committee on Research and Technology and Mr Konstantinos Karytsas was invited and because the new budget also provides for green cars in general, Mr Kaklamanis mentioned the roof and all of this, so we have a great opportunity as a Greek Parliament, Mr President, Mr Tasoula. We talked about geothermality, the geothermal potential of our country, which is too great, but geothermal exploitation is zero. When we say zero, we mean zero. Mr. Professor made the typical move. While Turkey is fourth in the world, say. And what did he say? That the House, for example, may serve itself. It is to such a extent that it can draw geothermality from where we are and not pay anything for heating or cooling. The professor's point is amazing. I have to move it to Parliament. I believe that in my brief position I will contribute more than to a report of ideas on the budget with which we agree from the moment that there are no irregularities and that it is also reduced for 2020. Let us take this seriously, Mr President, with the roof, electric cars and that too. The Greek Parliament, this beautiful and large at the same time building, can be self-sustained. Geothermality, renewable energy, green energy, to give the example here in society that we are starting first to follow the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. And we're closing with my colleague Mrs. Maria Apajidis from Mera 25. Is the right thing to do from the day 25 or from Mera 25?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u120	From the party... Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the House contains various types of expenditure of a non-profit institution, material supplies, fixed energy, water, telephone communications, etc., rent and natural remuneration for services, work. According to the report on the draft budget of the Parliament for the year 2020, it is also envisaged in cooperation with the Secretariat-General for Energy, a financial leasing programme for electric vehicles for the parliamentary and service sectors. The aim of the project is to promote new technologies, contribute to reducing the environmental footprint and raising ecological awareness. Initiatives to develop multilateral international relations are also being strengthened and an effort to maintain the historical memory and to highlight humanitarian values. In addition, the sponsorship programme of the Greek Parliament remains high with the aim of continuously extroverting action and active support for a number of creative initiatives that have evolved or first emerged within the major difficulties of the economic crisis. As day 25 we particularly welcome the programme of leasing motor vehicles for parliamentary and service vehicles. The House must indeed be a pioneer in the use of new technologies that promote the green transition to energy. With its example, the House must train and promote ecological consciousness, contributing to the reduction of the environmental footprint. We also welcome Parliament's initiatives to develop historical memory, such as through Parliament's contribution to creating a permanent Greek exhibition at the Auschwitz State Museum in Poland. The Republic is based on the historical memory and the rescue of this memory is necessary in order not to repeat such events in the future. In terms of height, it is noted that the course of the Parliament's budget follows the general austerity of the memorandum years, starting from EUR 218 million in 2009, the year before the crisis, and reaching EUR 133.985 000 in the 2018 report. It is, however, noted that the budget planned for 2020 amounts to EUR 139.550,000. In Merra25, we believe that the role of the House is more educational in the direction of creating a democratic awareness among citizens so that they are more involved in the political process. This is also the notified difference of the House, and in general a coordinate state must have institutions of the welfare state to deal with various relevant needs of the population. The particular task of the House is to contribute to the greater involvement of the citizens in democratic institutions. In this sense, it is indeed important to support creative initiatives that have evolved or first emerged in the difficulties of the economic crisis. Of course, we must always keep in mind what the objective is. Aiming is, of course, the maximum fulfilment of the needs for the proper functioning of Parliament at the least cost, but without any discount on the necessary democratic functions. This requires transparency in contracts with suppliers, i.e. their posting to the ‘Political Transparency’. At the same time, Parliament must finance educational programmes, actions, interventions and actions that foster the participation of citizens in the democratic city. In conclusion, with regard to the statement of Parliament's expenditure for the financial year 2018, we are voting'residents' for the reason that we are critical of the overall budget cuts due to the Memorandum Policies. With regard to the draft budget for the Parliament for the financial year 2020, we are voting'represents' for the same reason, and above all we agree with the budget section on promoting a green transition to energy and saving historical memory. We must also thank all the officials in this House for their valuable work and their important help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u121	Good, as you have heard the President, there has been an informal discussion because, when it has been voted on by four-fifths, it is only the President who objects. However, it is right that the parliamentary representatives should not take the floor in order to speak with two colleagues who have been present. He then wants the President of Parliament to speak for a while because he expects us to have a large bill that I don't know how many speakers he will have, so we don't get to midnight. Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis has the floor for exactly five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. We are called upon to approve the Parliament's expenditure for the financial year 2018 and the draft budget for Parliament's expenditure for the financial year 2020. The committee responsible has already approved both by a large majority and recommends their adoption. I would like to stress that the Parliament's budget for 2020 serves the following principles: its assistance under the Constitutional Mission of the Parliament, which is the exercise of legislative function, and the control of executive power by calculating economic sizes in such a way as to strengthen Parliament's evolutionary course. Secondly, the rational distribution of resources. Thirdly, the incorporation of new technologies into the functioning of the House. Fourthly, the continuous improvement of the skills and knowledge of the human resources of the House and, fifthly, the strengthening of the extroversion of the House. The new Parliament's budget, following the conservative line, is reduced compared to that of 2019 by EUR 2,300,000, i.e. 1,62%. Regarding the Parliament's expenditure statement for the financial year 2018, I would point out that the appropriations allocated to the 2018 budget were EUR 133.985 000 and the appropriations were reduced by EUR 44,700 and formed at EUR 133,940,400. From this amount, Mr Deputy Minister, the State's General Accounting Office was returned to the State's General Accounting Office the sum of EUR 400,700 and thus the allocated appropriations were finally allocated to the Parliament with the 2018 budget was EUR 133,639,700, which was allocated in accordance with the State budget's classification of revenue and expenditure code. From this position as a Member of Parliament, a Dean of Parliament and a Chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I would like to thank all the officials of the House for the work they are doing with their whole hearts, with all their knowledge, in order to achieve these goals, but in addition, the Greek Parliament with extroversion can give its own stigma. A great thank you and I conclude by saying that I approve both 2018 expenditure and the budget for the financial year 2020. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Highlands. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly, I'm probably not gonna need the five-minute, I'd like to say the following. First of all, in relation to the suffocating time we had from the day we took the relevant material until the day of the debate either in the committee or in the plenary: I understand the reasons, but I do not think this helps neither in a substantive debate nor in an analysis of the data. Next time, this should be addressed and asked, the committee, as its chairman said, should take a more substantial role and hold regular meetings and discuss these issues. I, as an economist, cannot say in this suffocating year if the 133 million in 2018 were many or few, whether more or less. We need more discussion, more expertise on these issues. A technical issue, Mr President, where I would like an answer from you or someone else is this: I searched the site of this House to find what we are discussing today, which we have shared. I didn't find it posted. It's probably a technical problem. If this is a technical problem, please be true, if this is something else, I think it should be addressed. The House cannot discuss something that is not posted on the site of the House. I do not want to imply or anything else, I just want an answer to this issue. We are also talking about the budget: the budget aims to improve Parliament's function, and it aims to improve the functioning of Members. Unfortunately there are still technical problems in support of Members. The President heard them, too, and I hope they will be resolved at some point. With regard to what we have and how we make use of the space, what we have in this area, the great majority of Members, because some others have because of their position or because of other offices, chambers, wardrobes, we simply parliamentarians have nothing, not even a closet to put our things somewhere. We are also talking about eco-conscious issues. That's right. I wish that Parliament would apply this by reducing the large number, the waste of photocopies we have, the waste of the Minutes. I cannot understand, for example, why the Minutes must be printed and come to us, corrected and returned, and cannot be digitalised to make them much faster. To reduce, then, all this amount of photocopying over the next few years and to abolish completely when we once get computers, so that we can do our work, because it is good for the citizens to know when we are talking about Members' privileges, that we are still using the computers and the phones we have, the devices before we leave parliamentarians. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u125	And we, Mr Alexiadis. Mr President, I don't give time to believe in restraint. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u126	Of course I'm a restraint fan. It's a little self-confidence, but it's helping. I wanted to say that the 2020 Parliament budget, as was heard by the party rapporteurs, is within the medium-term programme, within the ceilings of the medium-term programme, which I would like to mention to you. It has to do with the years 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, Minister of Finance. The expenditure ceiling in 2019 was 141.850,000, for 2020 139.550,000 that we are about to approve, for 2021 140.050.000 and for 2022 140.550.000. The interest in the 2020 budget is that we have a new form of economic classification of the economic sizes of the Parliament, more extensive, technocratically more secure and more understandable. Previously, the economic sizes of the House were presented through a more concise economic classification. This is more spreading now and is divided into seven categories: first, we have employee benefits, which is the vastly higher percentage of expenditure, arrogant as you can see. Secondly, we have social benefits, thirdly we have transfers, fourth purchases of goods and services, fifthly, allocation appropriations, sixthly, fixed assets and valuables are the last category. This is about an older practice. It is a long time since the House has bought works of art, especially paintings, which it considers worth repatriating to the country, by auctions that may take place abroad. These are the seven categories of expenditure. I wanted to say that we obviously have a little savings in relation to last year, but because of the fact that the so-called political system is being brought about, so Parliament, for expenditure, has to say that from 2009 until today, or rather in relation to today, the reduction in Parliament's budget has reached 40%. It is not a 5% or 10% reduction or 20% reduction. It is 40% reduction in Parliament's budget. Obviously, the House has been committed to the need to save resources and to the financial difficulties of our country in recent years. We had a budget of 222 million in 2009, the last year before the outbreak of the crisis, and we are now at 139 million, without having undermined either the prestige, the prestige, or the effectiveness, or the great vodka of Parliament's actions. And, indeed, it is impressive that the actions of Parliament and the Foundation of Parliament together, in the areas of culture, in the areas of aid for social actors, exorcist associations, who have a worthwhile action, which is controlled by Parliament, before this action is assisted by the House. This whole grid is last and in the pursuit, as has rightly been said, of the ecological behaviour of the House. As proof of the immediate act of this House and Parliament and of the services against the need to strengthen our ecological footprint, I tell you that after the vote on the Rules of Procedure we have taken a few minutes ago, but also today's budget vote, perhaps even tomorrow, but at any rate, the beginning of next week - I repeat, it can also be auctioned on Friday - on the basis of what we have voted on in the Rules of Procedure and now on the budget, which we have been preparing for this for some time now, of the energy upgrade of this House. This includes, of course, not yet the greenery on the roof, which we will probably see, but all the building blocks that should be added to or replaced in Parliament's House, so that energy consumption is substantially reduced, as in every modern building. When I say "modern" I don't mean in relation to the date of birth, but in relation to its ecological equipment. It is a work of not a beastly budget, it is about 2.8 million, but with all the paperwork and all the bureaucratic procedures, with which the House is fatally involved as part of the public sector, and we finally managed to get this proclamation done tomorrow or at the latest at the beginning of next week and to start up these developments. We are therefore continuing old initiatives. There is no question of Parliament's television on any side. We continue every good effort. We will try to broaden it, because the House has indeed developed a very important and very cynical activity in areas which, if not closely monitored, cannot imagine how fertile these Parliament's activities are in the publishing sector. Because you have now learned and seen that we also have a role in the preparation of the country for the two-year anniversary of the '21 Revolution', I wanted to say to you: The House, working through the Foundation with the '2021' Committee, on the basis of the founding decree - a recent decree - which defines how this committee operates and how it cooperates with Parliament, following the liquidation of the committee - which will become a universal successor to any assets left in this committee, after the very important task of the mission has been accomplished. Therefore, because things are a skating, we take the spit from the use of 19, we go to '20 with new ways of imaging accounting, very transparent, very clear, very well-built technocratic. We made the cut imposed on us by the circumstances. As my colleague from Achaias said that the House is a mechanism of the civil state and serves business interests, I understand that this is his point of view, but I would like to remind him of something in relation to the establishment. I will mention something that the famous British politician, military and author then, Chris Woodhouse, who, as you know, fell by parachute and even took part in the blowing up of Gorgepotamos by the two major resistance organizations of the country, which were able to cooperate at that time and was blown up by Gorgopotamos, with consequences to the German troops in Africa. So, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, describing the factors that played a role in post-liberal Greece and talking about the old politicians, about the army, about the resistance organizations, says on a page in his book "The apple of Eridos" referring to the army: "The army was made up of people who were committed to the establishment, but there was no establishment that recognized their loyalty". That's the way our country is. I'm a man of the establishment, in your theory, but, believe me, I feel like what Woodhouse said. I don't see any establishment that approves my loyalty. Because our society is mercury and this Marxist concept of establishment does not apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u128	So since we have also made this ideological response to the situation, I would ask my colleagues to vote in favour of the budget, so that Parliament's very important work can continue on the ecological basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on Parliament's Expenditure Report for the financial year 2018 and on the Parliament's expenditure budget for the financial year 2020 is hereby finalised. We are entering the vote on the Parliament's expenditure statement for the financial year 2018 at the expense, results from its use and total and Parliament's expenditure budget for the financial year 2020 at the expense, results from its use and overall vote. We note that the vote includes: firstly, the Parliament's statement of expenditure for the financial year 2018 and, secondly, the Parliament's budget for the financial year 2020. For any question, as you know, you will be addressing the Bureau in order to assist you with the relevant officials. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u130	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u131	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u132	Therefore Parliament's statement of expenditure for the financial year 2018 by way of expenditure, results from its use, and the total was accepted in one single debate by a majority. Also, the Parliament's draft budget for the financial year 2020 by way of expenditure, results from its use, and the total was accepted in a single debate by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u134	The House has given the mandate requested. We will be adjourning the sitting for five to seven minutes so that the relevant ministers, rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives can take their seats for the next bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring: a) of 25.09.2019 B.C. (b) from 30.09.2019 B.C. ‘Incidental arrangements of competence of the Ministries of Environment and Energy, Interior, Economic and Health’ (A 145), (c) of 04.10.2019 B.N.P. 'Accessive arrangements for the responsibility of the Ministry of Health (A' 150) and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 7 November 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. The registration will take place electronically as soon as the new Republic's rapporteur Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis goes to Step and will be closed as soon as the SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, comes down from Step. Does the House agree on a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u136	The House has agreed. Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor for 15 minutes. Open the registration system, please. Here you go, Mr. Tsavdaridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this draft law, as held last week on the relevant committees of this House, has shown two basic and interesting conclusions. First, that the New Democracy Government produces much more work than SYRIZA can manage a opposition. Secondly, that SYRIZA produces more sterile refusal than well-meaning and constructive criticism. And I'm explaining. As far as the first conclusion is concerned, while the Qualifications Anti-Policy started with the debate on the draft law for the first time, by voting against it at first, then - and obviously following the government's serious arguments - it went into some, even partial, folding. We have therefore heard her rapporteur explain in the second reading that SYRIZA will vote for a few articles in the bill. This is something we welcome, in the logic that even with a delay SYRIZA realizes that New Democracy has not come to the country's governance to waste time. On the contrary, he came to act, to deal with and to resolve issues with speed and effectiveness, which does not leave much room for Civic Opposition to structure any valid criticism. such as, for example, it mitigates the negative consequences for our tourism business from the THOMAS COOK cannon, through the exemption from the obligation to pay the residence tax to hotel enterprises and accommodations held with THOMAS COOK for the period from 23-9-2019 to 10-10-2019, through the suspension of VAT for six months, but also through specific measures to support the employees, such as the reduction in the number of credits needed to pay an unemployment benefit from a hundred to eighty, but also the extension of the period of payment of the unemployment allowance by one month. As also provides an extension of the deadline for including and regulating public debts to municipalities until December 31st of this year. It is practical to support citizens in order to return to normality, while paying back their debts. It is practical to support the municipalities in the country, who will thus increase their income without putting the nipple on the civilian neck. It also introduces new improvements to the First Residence Act, a law which the New Democracy Government itself voted on. The new corrective interventions in the institutional framework make it easier for citizens, broaden the categories of those who benefit, enhance the confidence of society in a government that simplifies and protects their lives. A characteristic example of building confidence through this arrangement is the possibility offered to the citizens, who have received a housing loan from creditors, to regulate their debts and to protect their first residence through the special electronic platform. The same applies to loans purchased from funds. The same determination on the issues of the abolition of NOMEs, a measure which aims to protect PPC's consumers and the entire Greek economy. It is an issue that SYRIZA initially ruined the world against the government decision to abolish the power auctions, where PPC was forced to sell - with Mr Tsipras's agreement - a current below costs, which led PPC to lose over the last three and a half years 600,000, for the benefit of its competitors or, otherwise, for the benefit of the great interests that SYRIZA loyally served. Then, of course, he agreed with the arrangements of this draft law, as any possible opposition argument runs counter to the trillion of PPC's value today compared to that of the European elections and to the upgrading of PPC's creditworthiness by the international rating house "STANDARD & POOR'S" because of its earlier redemption. The same, initially sterile, criticism was converted by SYRIZA into an agreement and in relation to the arrangement for the extension of the time-limit for the operation of power plants from renewable energy sources and cogeneration of high-efficiency electricity and heat by 30 September 2020, an extension that renews the opportunity to implement the old projects for the benefit and local economies. In other regulations, the government is once again doing what is self-evident about the benefit of society. It avoids the functioning of the body of each hospital and of other health bodies, from the time-consuming process of presidential decrees and states that in order to be flexible, it should be drawn up through the CST procedures. It gives regulation - breath for the country's health tourism, as the deadline for applying for the recognition of existing health resources is abolished. The new government thus confirms that thematic tourism is a strategic pillar of the country's economic development. It also extends, until 31 December 2021, the time limit for classifying the main hotel accommodation and organised tourist camps. The ultimate objective is to adapt accommodation to the existing provisions that define the corresponding technical and functional specifications so that there is a significant improvement in our country's tourism product, as well as a qualitative upgrading of the services provided. For all of this, the obvious and so important objections to SYRIZA have been turned - fortunately - into delayed, even consensual ones. At the same time, however, SYRIZA - to come to the explanation of the second conclusion that came out of the debate on the bill in the past few days - in his desperate attempt to find a account after three failed elections for him, is resorting - unfortunately - to old recipes: trenches of trenches, construction of ideological opponents, slanders and mushrooms, artificial tension, regeneration of skeletons from the wardrobe. However, this is all done in such a rough and clumsy way, which, instead of telling, eventually ends up in fiasco, in fairy tales, such as the fairy tales we have heard about 'the extreme right', coups, democratic deficits, which have discovered prominent SYRIZA officials in the regulation of this draft law on the CITES, and on the occasion of the change of a board. SYRIZA's rapporteur spoke of "a long hand of blue client power", resorting to his favourite sports, the slogans, when neither one, nor the former management of the organization, was able to demonstrate why the change in the management model of the CDE is a problem. And this has happened despite the fact that the Minister assures, in all tonnes, that neither the purpose of the CECE changes, on the contrary remains the same and is safeguarded, nor transparency is reduced. On the contrary, good administration and effective management of the Agency are expanded and strengthened when pluralism is strengthened and when the general assembly by a body exclusively elected by the members of the Board of Directors is transformed into a body that defines and shapes the organisation's strategy, when, finally, the participation of social actors, workers and members of the curative communities in the General Assembly of the Centre is expanded. On the contrary, what is at stake and causing SYRIZA's anger? It is at stake, ladies and gentlemen, that the party that took place in the structures of the KETHEA, where according to the findings of regular management by the General Accounting Office of the State, a series of economic and administrative irregularities were recorded, as well as according to the report of the Working Group of the Thessaloniki Society itself, which accounts for incredible things. I will mention a few: Systematic involvement of workers in marginal law activities, if not illegally conducted, issue of attestations to members who have been irregularly integrated into the programme and, in particular, use of legal benefits to members of the programme and graduates who have been using the programme without having any problem with the use of substances, economic irregularities, administrative excesses, clinical planning failures, possible curriculum function that took advantage of the benefits of the law, loss of computers with members, misuse of power, insecurity, overall and generalised depreciation of institutions, actions, instruments and procedures, non-existent administrative competence. What did the previous administration of the CDEO do about all this? Why does SYRIZA blame the head of the Ministry of Health, who sends everything to the prosecutor? Why is SYRIZA deaf in the face of the views of the founder of the CECH, the distinguished psychiatrist Mr. Zafiridis, who in his recent letter to the committee speaks of degenerative phenomena within the CECH, which mainly confers on the vast volume of administrative and economic acts? What does SYRIZA answer to Mr Zafiridis's objections that there is no control by the Board of Directors that there is a chaotic general assembly and a misguided democratic procedure, while denouncing, at the same time, cases of financial mismanagement, such as financing of executives for exotic trips without any suggestion? The new government, ladies and gentlemen, supports the JET and its structures. Evidently the ERCD is doing a very important work and we recognize it. However, since the JRC is financed with about EUR 20,000 000, and this funding has increased this year, I think it is absolutely necessary to have transparency and control. However, all this seems to be of no importance to SYRIZA, nor to Mr Blondos, who spoke of an act of political authoritarianism, undisturbed and without any pretext, by the government, nor to Mrs Fotio, who talks about a demarcated council, as well as of a passport coup in 40% the Greek people gave us. But listen to something, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA: the coup tales we return them to you. If you do not respect a legitimately elected government - and indeed triumphantly elected - if you do not respect the people who have elected us, we cannot help you to stop your political catastrophe. You must, however, even if you do not respect, appreciate the very society, which requires progress, order, household, security. If you dream of KETHA a clear vine according to the standards of university institutions, which you have become a man of lawlessness, you will find us across the street. You are the last ones to talk about demilitarisation, since, in your words and your behaviors, you are not respecting the laws that are passed in this House. When you support the mess, when you ask yourself what is wrong with the molotovs and what is wrong with anyone carrying them, when you praise them...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u138	What are you talking about? Say that at the cafeterias. That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u139	Don't bother, because they're what you've said from time to time and in the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Tsavdaridis, you're not answering. You are addressing the House, completing your report.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u141	...when you praise those who break the locks of university institutions with chainsaws, when the conversation, the cultivation and expression of ideas and new knowledge within the universities consider them to be the privilege of your only party colour. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is voting on the bill in principle, on the articles and on the whole. It votes for another step towards economic development, social protection, family security and peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u142	Mr Papadopoulos, I would like your permission, before you go to Stepma, because Mr. Skylakakis is leaving for Brussels and has to be at the airport, he wants the floor for five minutes in order to respond to some who have heard in committee regarding his area of responsibility. Do I have your permission?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u143	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I too have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u145	Mrs. Fotio, write a speaker and answer whatever you want. I will not interrupt the debate every three and a little bit on a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u146	There's staff and I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u147	So I withdrew him and told him not to address faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u148	You'll give me the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u149	Now, I don't answer you. I've given the floor to Mr. Dog. Please. Please. After Mr. Papadopoulos, I'll give you the floor for two minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor for five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the permission to make this brief speech, but I could not do anything else, because I am flying for Brussels. The two points I would like to make out concern the special reserve and the non-systemic banks. The special reserve is a new institution that we introduce into the public accounting system, which will make it very easier to reduce the under-utilisation of expenditure. What is the logic of the special reserve? There are costs of ministries with high uncertainty. Take, for example, a tender that no one knows whether it will be carried out in the year as a whole, for example, by appeals. Or take the case of the platform of red loans that entered a hundred and fifty million and in the end some thousand euros will be spent and if they are spent. In these cases, the Ministries tend to put more money in when the expenditure is uncertain to cover the total expenditure. This in the end leads us to mass under-utilisation. In 2018, we had a budget of EUR nine hundred million. It's a scary amount. And under-utilisation is very unpleasant, because, when there is one, it puts taxation on the citizens. There must be money and if it proves to be sub-execution, the money is not spent. They leave the economy and go to state reserves. And state reserves cannot be used as a result of the agreement of the primary surpluses for current expenditure until 2060, with the exception of interest payments. Therefore, in order to avoid mass under-utilisation, we are now building a special reserve and putting down the ceilings of the ministries. The special reserve, however, does not concern exceptional and unforeseen expenditure but expenditure of high uncertainty, such as those described to you. That's the one explanation I wanted to give. The second concerns non-systemic banks, where we allow operators to maintain deposits with those who had in June 2018 to the non-systemic banks for stability purposes of those banks. Because some of them are small and have - and they have - substantial amounts of deposits of public bodies and we do not want to create a greater problem than what we are solving. I would like to clarify these two. I didn't take much time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u151	I, too, thank Mr. Papadopoulos, whom I call on the Step. You have the floor, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. The Polynomial Plan of the Ministry of Finance reveals all the contradictions between the right policy of the New Democracy and its central objectives. A moment ago, ladies and gentlemen, we heard a fanatical speech about the law and order issues confusing students' claim to hold a general meeting on the issue of brawls. They have nothing to do with these students and their right to hold a general assembly within their school. The Multi-Project regulates issues necessary to deal with options, which we agree with some. In other words, we disagree or have made our remarks. We have also heard specific proposals that were made at the hearing of bodies and at the meetings of the Committees on Economic and Social Affairs. Most of all, however, the multi-brand plan makes autocratic interventions in issues that reveal the ideological strangles of the New Democracy and in the practices of building the "Blue Rose State", typical of the law on the terminal state, but now also in the arrangements for abolishing the self-sufficient KETHA. The main problem of the New Democracy is that it is annoyed by the processes of self-government, self-management of public benefit organisations. She's annoyed by the operation philosophy of the ERCD. It wants administrations, such as those in CEDEFOP, administrations - which you well said - 'a long hand'. Do you know the terminology "long hand" from whom it was heard? It was heard by Mrs Jenny Cremastino, former chairman of the CEDEFOP, on the interventions which were taking place and which showed that power wanted the administrations 'a long hand'. It has proved, however, that even with controlled party administrations, the user is not guaranteed the proper and effective functioning of the New Democracy's intent to legislate. The CEDEFOP has become orchestrated to the dismantling of public money. And despite the timely points made by the former State Secretary for Health of the Government of New Democracy - PASOK, Ms. Fotini Skokoulis, it continued to distribute vaguely black money to the 'in front' of many million euros. The same was done in Henry Dunn despite the appointment by the governments of the New Democracy - PASOK of three members to the Board of Directors. The same became true in the health and drug field with administrations appointed by the New Democracy and with ministers of its own. The Act of Legislative Content took place on 30 September 2009, long before the reports on financial irregularities at the CDEA are published by the Working Party and the General Accounting Office of the State. These are issues that justice will deal with. Nothing ensures that with your chosen Christos Liapis as president of the CECE and the other appointed members of the board of directors, there will be conditions of good administration and management. There will be a better use of the 20m euros with which the Ministry of Health is financed. There will be a better treatment of the unacceptable phenomena identified in the reports of the Working Group and the General Accounting Office of the State than would be addressed by the new Board of Directors, which would be elected by the General Assembly of the Centre. And it is outrageous to compare, Mr. Kikilis, the qualifications of your chosen president with those of the renowned presidents who led the self-government KETHES to its thirty-six years of operation and especially to the qualifications of former President of the Ice of Xenis Dimitrios, who for 15 years participated in the formulation of the holistic strategy of the KETHEI to prevent, disarmament, treatment, reintegration. In the matters to be regulated, we find Article 1 which regulates the obligation to pay the residence tax to the companies liable for the 'THOMAS COOK' and the suspension of the payment of VAT to the firms affected. We agree. However, the protective provisions of Article 10 for workers in enterprises linked to 'THOMAS COOK' are not complete. In order to guarantee workers, it should be provided that the favourable arrangements for employers only apply where there is no outstanding payment. We hope you will accept the improvements made by workers' and tourist businesses. That is why we are voting 'at present' in Article 1 and we are voting 'yes' in Article 10. Article 2 ratifys the Act of Legislative Content ‘Full arrangements, the competence of the co-legislative Ministries’ and provides, firstly, for the cancellation of the auction of the forward electricity products scheduled for 16 October 2019 by the Regulatory Authority for Energy and for the speeding up of the opening of the energy financial market, through the abolition of the PPC's electricity sale mechanism by means of NOME tenders, which would remind us that they had been imposed by the lenders on the Government of Samaras, not on us. But we disagree with the overall design of the New Democracy for PPC, a design of privatization of distribution networks, hydroelectric works by IPTO. We think it is unnoticed to design early and violent shutdown of all lignite power stations in PPC until 2028. We agree, of course, with the liberation and strengthening of renewable energy sources. However, we would remind you that the unbridled design does not give the opportunity to have a design of the national economy which, both in Megalopolis and in other areas, can use all of what we need, on the other hand, to denounce Rusphetological recruitment to PPC. We were informed that the Minister of Energy, Mr. Hadjidakis, will visit the Messochora hydroelectric project to speed up its completion and performance in operation. Finally, we think that the use of the EUR five hundred million which have been spent up to now must be made with a satisfactory proposal to compensate people who are being removed by the forced expropriation of their property. We also note that the increase in PPC's accounts was completely unnecessarily unnecessarily and has burdened Greek households, contrary to what the Minister said. Secondly, the ratification of an extension of the time limit for the operation of old renewable energy generation projects which have concluded an electricity sale contract in order to allow them to be implemented for the benefit of the local society as well. We agree. Third, the extension of the deadline for adjusting forest cooperatives to the provisions of Law 4423/2016 on the acquisition of a forest worker's status to complete the number of members in the twenty-year period for adjusting the statutes. The extension was granted until 31 March 2020. He actually rewards those who hadn't complied with. But we agree with all the remarks we make. Fourthly, the extension of the suspension of permits for construction works in the Hymitos, which we agree to. Fifth, the management and operation of public spaces of the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas, before being delivered to the common use. In fact, the publicity of the sites approved in the plan is postponed for many years and is attributed to the investment company. We don't agree. However, we have heard assurances from the Minister responsible, Mr Economou, that the public spaces will be granted to self-government. We await the final choices of the government and proof that the labels made by the general assembly of the architects department of the National Technical University are accepted. Sixth, the extension of the deadline for applying for debts to municipalities and legal persons up to 31 December. We agree. Seventh, the suspension of the payment of VAT for the firms affected by the bankruptcy of the 'THOMAS COOK' which we agree. Eighth, the ratification of the PPP "substantiated arrangements for the Ministry of Health to abolish the self-employed of the CECH which, as we said, was published September 30th. In total, we disagree with all the provisions abolishing the self-employed of the ERM. The self-employed had been guaranteed by the establishment of Law 1729/87, Minister of State Kostas Stefanis, with an explicit reference to the self-employed nature and the manner in which the board of directors was elected by the general meeting. The general meeting shall include the workers, the reintegration members and members of their families, as well as renowned persons of society who have been members of the boards of the CEDEFOP. This philosophy of self-management of CECs was confirmed and with the 4139/13 and is now being ratified. Article 3 ratifys the PPP ‘Full settlements of the Ministry of Health by means of provisions for direct staffing of the EGE, the implementation of the ‘PHILOS 2’ programme for integrated emergency health intervention in the refugee crisis, the payment of the expected remuneration to EGE staff and the ‘PHILOS 2’ programme with observations. We agree. In the other provisions, Article 4 for the special reserve of the State budget has a number of interpretations of how it is done. We have raised a number of questions and, above all, how to make it easier for the ministries to function properly when the reduced appropriations are not sufficient, they must be granted by the Ministry of Finance under the special reserve procedure. For example, in the Ministry of Health how are the already inadequate appropriations for operating expenses regulated? We have put the question, have there any choice of further cuts in expenditure in the Ministries and do you want this way to hit the back that perhaps they can be dealt with when you know, but that in really unforeseen situations, for example earthquakes, there will be a need to deal with them and we do not know whether there will be a realistic possibility of giving money to ministries that do not have sufficient credit? We therefore reserve these questions until the questions are answered. In Article 5 for ELSTAT, it is a good thing to regulate, we are voting in favour of it. Article 6 on the protection of the first residence of natural persons who are temporarily resident outside the regional unit situated in their principal place of residence for professional reasons provides for the widening of the concept of creditors holding claims, protection of the total residence. Generally speaking, we agree. Since L.4605/2019 was a temporary framework, a permanent framework is required for coherent and unified, with fair and reasonable criteria for protecting the main residence of collective expansion of the Katseli law - L.3869/2010 - with the adoption of the proposals we have heard from EKPIZO. We hope that you will be able to accept them. We want to state that by studying the amendment tabled by KINAL, which proposes, firstly, the reintroduction of the protection of the principal residence of L.3869/2010 and, at the same time, the possibility of using the public contribution to L.4605/2019 to improve the repayment capacity of the debtor and, secondly, the right to options for the borrower to the loan market and the bank to be forced, before selling the loan to a group, to give the borrower the opportunity to buy the loan himself in a positive direction. For the general government's cash assets, we agree. With Article 8 on categorisation and integration of investment projects by Law 3908 and Law 4339 we agree. In accordance with Article 9, we agree with the comments of the President of OLEME on the programme of the post-training year of the Ministry of Education. With Article 10 on 'THOMAS COOK', we agree, in particular with the additional proposals made by workers' organizations. With Article 11 on the cost of supplies of hospitals, primary homes, DPRK... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, can I take some time from my dentistry as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u153	You don't have to. The Bureau will show a slight tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u154	We agree with the labels in order to compensate suppliers. With Article 12 for the abolition or amendment of the bodies of the public-law legal persons of the Ministry of Health, and there we agree with the comments. All provisions on the CSTD in Article 13 are provocably unacceptable. We note that they are causing a breach in the relationship between the administration of the CECE and all the bodies involved in the general assemblies. We are voting against them and note that the working party communication points out that already the practice of the new board of directors does not provide any good for the workers and servants of the JETD. The reports by Mr Kikilias in the working party's reports on the evaluation of the healing program "PRECIS" and the General Accounting Office of the State are pretexts. They are attempting to ex post justify the New Democracy's political decision to lift the left's hegemony on issues of dealing with dependency, namely the holistic strategy for prevention, disarmament, healing, reintegration and promoting right-wing perceptions to deal with drug dependence, abolishing the self-employed. As far as complaints about strange anti-ethnic behaviours are concerned, we have already answered that they will be dealt with by justice. You have to explain, dear Minister of Health, about the unpaidness of the new president of the CEDEFOP. You say in the law that they will be governed by a joint decision of the Finance and Health Ministers. You made some statements and we're waiting for explanations. With Article 14, we agree on the Special Scientific Committee and the Project Coordinator for Climate Change. But we want clarifications and reservations. We agree with Articles 16, 17, 18 and 19. We have, for Article 20, a number of reservations and we are voting 'at present'. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] We agree with the provisions on the National Printing Office. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, what your rapporteur said is that we are dealing with the issues of the multi-brand plan, retrospectively seeing positive interventions, with which we do not hesitate to say our agreement, is within our general logic. We will be hard to deal with everything that reminds us of the rebuilding of the right-wing state and the issues with which you want to regulate issues of everyday life, we will also see together the proposals of the bodies that we have heard at the hearing. If we look at better proposals, there we can really serve them with a constructive intervention of our own, which shows that we are preparing as credible Opposition, to substantiate our potential for the new mandate that the people will give us in the new elections to be the mandate to complete our intervention for fair and sustainable development in the country, for all these great tasks that are before us in the new era. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. I was informed by Mr Kaklamanis that Mrs Fotou had asked for the floor for a minute on staff and had promised that she would be given the opportunity to develop the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u156	For two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u157	Okay, for two minutes, Mrs. Fotio. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur for the New Democracy once again targeted me about as an accomplice to what New Democracy imagines exists in universities, violence and lawlessness. The problem, however, is that for days now New Democracy has been creating a climate of war throughout the city to terrorize society and not to descend on the course of the anniversary of November 17th. That's the real target. Fear is used to paralyse society and youth. We are threatened by the students, who appear potentially as terrorists and certainly 'bugs'. We are threatened by the universities, which have been places of violence and lawlessness for years now, SYRIZA Members have been reported as some collaborative in this whole situation. An entire city, the capital of Greece, is threatened. Fear is used to legitimise repression and violence, with which you want the New Democracy to rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u159	Where's the staff, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u160	Mr. President, mercy! He requested the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u161	Complete, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u162	But fear divides and divides society and young people. This is the side loss. That's the battle of days. We're not gonna let you have fear pass. The tribute to the anniversary of November 17th is to guarantee the essential concept of asylum for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u163	What's the staff, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u164	Is that personal, Mr. President? That's it, to play on the channels!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u165	They don't play on the channels. Mrs. Fotio, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u166	This is the battle of the days. We will prevent the division of young people, particularly in good and bad. We will defend the unity of the university community to take over the democratic management of the university.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. A moment ago, at the time of the previous rapporteur, we were given a new ministerial amendment. In the past few hours and days, a number of ministerial amendments have already been tabled. Taking into account and, of course, seeing a bill, which has the signature of half the Ministerial Council, I would like to believe that we will not live again in meetings where the rain will end by the end of the meeting, the ministerial amendments. I therefore urge the Bureau to put a brake on this situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u169	Thank you. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I request the floor to put forward legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u171	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u172	I just want to submit these legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u174	Are you sure, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u175	Sure. You have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to congratulate the decision of the Holy Metropolis of Ilias and Oleni and personally of Metropolitan, the Most Respective Mr German, to open up the structures of the metropolis, to welcome families of refugees, especially single parents with children, by giving a strong and emphatic message against racism, xenophobia and intolerance, which is unfortunately cultivated throughout Greek society and some people are trying to gain political benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living the absurdity of normality. The government is rushing to bring growth and brings the violation of labour rights. It is prepared to legislate for the final state at the same time as four times that it is inclined to correct it. It is imperative for the government to reform education, but its vision is exhausted in the abolition of schools and the abolition of the immunity of lawlessness, bringing an invasive provision from the Ministry of Education to every bill we are discussing in the national delegation. Enforcement of security by the doctrine of 'law and order', unfortunately achieving precisely the opposite by reproducing new cycles of violence and insecurity. The government is struggling to convince itself of the normality it has, however, applied unreasonably. And the deep areas that the country needs will certainly not come with superficial semimeters. Citizens expected a government to come with proposals, with solutions, with bills responding to the accumulated problems of our small and medium-sized, professional and weak fellow citizens. A government that will give solutions, which would finally change policy. The doctrine of the new government is that there are only one solutions to be our own solutions, a party view of political considerations aimed at covering sloppyness and gaining communications impressions. Let us see a typical example of what is happening in universities these days. I remember the Collegiate Members celebrating at the beginning of August the abolition of the immunity of lawlessness. Then, if you remember, there was also controversy about the preventive presence of the police in the country's public education institutions. Where and when was the preventive policing for which you were proud at the beginning of August? Suddenly, the rectoral authorities find out in the undergrounds of an institution, which, unfortunately, is unpredictable in an unprecedented way and some have not understood the consequences of all this defamation, equipment that obviously has nothing to do with education. A week before celebrating the Polytechnic uprising, the police suddenly find that there is this equipment and they are activated reflexibly only in order to create impressions and not to effectively solve, practically and if possible quietly, the problem so that the climate can be dynamised. On the other hand, some also have the right to stand up to all those who invade the universities, saying that there is no decision that we will respect and respect if we do not agree ideologically. And so there is a tent of controversy that is carried out both outside Parliament and within Parliament and in all the bills even on matters of national importance, such as refugee - immigration. The bill we are debating today is another sign of a practice of misdemeanor. It is a mini-legislative draft with provisions that are incoherent from too many Ministries, with three acts of legislation that are being ratified, supplementary regulations, extensions, a bill that settles and solves issues, but unfortunately it has no beginning, mid and end. Mr Gerapetititi, who, in every position at least in the first month of the government, talked about the need for good legislature, will certainly not be proud of this bill, and how, up to the time we speak, we are talking about it, and I fear that it will continue to be distributed by additional amendments until its final vote. We have also heard complaints from the Opposition on legislative acts and whether they are of an urgent nature. I would like to remind you that almost four years ago in this Chamber in the context of the SYRIZA government, twelve acts of legislation were ratified, five of which concerned capital control and other provisions which, in fact, did not have any urgency. So we see the complainants become complainants and vice versa and history continues. Let's see some examples of a bad legacy. As regards the ‘THOMAS COOK’ case in the first FPI, the Government is to postpone the obligation to pay a residence tax. In the second legislative act, it brings the suspension of payment of VAT by 31 March 2020 without knowing what will happen next. And if a cash failure is detected due to a lack of recovery, no provision is made. Will enterprises pay value added tax, or will provision be made for exemption? With both of us, however, acts which we consider to be in the positive direction, there is no provision and no provision for the workers of enterprises associated with the bankruptcy of 'THOMAS COOK'. The Change Movement tables an amendment for workers in the development bill, which is unfortunately not even discussed. Today almost a month and a half after this amendment comes not as a whole because it does not provide for an overall extension of the unemployment benefit for seasonal workers in tourism. And as the bodies at the hearing said, both the food workers - tourism and SETE - are not enough and should be extended to apartments and to co-operating hotels affected by the bankruptcy of the company. No reference to a tax deduction for insecure claims. No references to a contribution or debt freeze in insurance funds and no reference - and I say this because the SETE made this urgently - to the possibility of granting low-interest loans on favourable terms to firms affected by the bankruptcy of 'THOMAS COOK'. Now let's go to the C.E.E.L.D. I think it is understandable that the government has made a political decision, it is its right, it has the majority, to change the model and the way of administration. Of course, he did that in different phases. In the first phase with an act of legislation and, secondly, with provisions which we are discussing in this draft law, it further regulates the administrative operation of the CEC. It therefore creates a two-tier regimen in which one president, vice-chairman, board of directors with clear administrative, accounting and audit powers without any involvement in the organisation's scientific function at the same time, Minister, who in the explanatory statement you say you want the JET to look like the JRC in the way other therapeutic bodies are operating, such as the OKANA. The function you are proposing is far from functioning in the OKAN, and I think it is also problematic that the administration has no reason for the body's scientific function. Of course, we all agree that the CEEC had management problems, but that is what I think it would be appropriate not to generalise it, because in this way, we are soaking and blackening up the operation of a therapeutic body with a huge social offer and an offer, which, in fact, numbering many human lives. I would like here to say my disagreement with the unfortunate cooperation that is being created, on the one hand, by the political disagreement with the decisions of a former Minister of the previous government, who has been responsible for the justice sector and, on the other, by the unfortunate incidents that occurred in the ERC programmes in prisons, which, as you know, is a very difficult area. All those who have dealt with the subject of dependencies especially in prisons know that there is much more difficult both rehab and treatment and substitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u177	When were these incidents? What Minister? Because it was three.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u178	With Mr. Paradisepoulou, I mean, it was founded that because he has adopted a favourable framework of liberation arrangements and has invented a president of the CDE where some traders were being baptized, this unfortunate association that is wrongful to believe this person and his term of office at the CTE. The question, however, is that there is no clear policy on the area of dependency, Minister, and I will set a simple example: areas of supervised use. They have been voted by SYRIZA, New Democracy, a Change Movement on the occasion of the previous government. It remains now to be implemented. For a year now, there has been a debate on this issue, but there is no decision and no one can understand why you are not applying it. Why do you not institutionalise the regular financing of the anti-corruption therapeutic agencies that are confiscated by criminal acts, it will, in fact, be a financial breath for these agencies. We have proposed that there should be a transitional administrative regime at the JITHA, which should involve both workers and the healing and exhaustive dialogue, so that we can reach the best possible solution with good administration and in terms of transparency, so that there are no shadows for the cover-up of economic irregularities. As far as the amendments to Law No4605/2019 concerning the possibility of weak debtors subject to protection in principle are concerned, we are positive to any provisions that are facilitated by weak borrowers. But are these provisions solved, ladies and gentlemen? The platform linked to the law passed by the previous government, which was advertised as the successor of Law 3689, did not in any case cover the gap left by the removal of the protection of first residence. It is a programme available for a certain period of time to regulate certain debts with temporary effect without taking into account the total debts of borrowers, simply transferring all liabilities to the ultimate future and, of course, with a number of conditions which, in practice, prevented the application of Law 4605 of the previous government of debtors who could not serve their obligations. So this law in practice has failed. Of course the Minister of Development on 31 August advertised the changes on the platform, saying that the process of settlement of debts and the protection of first residence is facilitated. On November 4th, the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat reveals reality. Forty-four thousand five hundred natural persons enter the platform and agree to lift tax secrets and twenty-nine thousand nine hundred start application proceedings to come under the SYRIZA law of supposedly protection of first residence. Two hundred and sixty-seven applications were sent, 0.009% of those completing the application to the banks, fifty-six proposals were made and finally, ladies and gentlemen, today, ten and all arrangements were agreed on this platform. Of course, on the same day, the government bringing in provisions that we are discussing, emphatically announces that it is improving, amended and that there will be a solution to this big issue. Is that true? I fear that no, as no assurances apply to the lifting of the bank charges granted by this party by the highest-ranking government officials. You know this well, too, Mr Tsavdaridis and Mr Papadopoulos, and the other rapporteurs. Ask your friends in the electoral districts if these bank charges have been or have been withheld since 1 November. As the assurances of uniform rules for the treatment of borrowers in liquidation, given by the State Secretary responsible, Mr Zavvos, on Monday, the same day that the President of the Dodecanese Chamber of Department addressed an invitation to the Prime Minister calling for these uniform rules to exist. As the reassuring statements to deal with the issue of loans in firefighting areas, where suddenly professionals are in danger of turning into governmentists, do not apply. No reference to the debate on the protection of first homes, no references and debates on loans which are massively sold in funds and which are much higher than they have been acquired. No one's talking about this? But this is all about the Change Movement. He has tabled an amendment to the entire parliamentary group to sign this initiative. It includes two arms. The first part reinstates the protection of first residence in the spirit of No3689/2010 for the really weak borrowers and very specific conditions and of course the use of public contribution to improve the debtor's ability to repay, because I would like to say that, according to the preliminary draft budget 2020, only EUR 2 million of the 150 million allocated for this action were used in this direction. In the second part, the borrower is given the opportunity to buy his loan before it is transferred to a loan and credit acquisition company, the infamous funds, again under specific terms and conditions, under conditions which are of interest to both the borrower and the credit institution with which he had acquired a trust and which is quite a different relationship from the one he will have with the fund. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, please be indulgent. It is an amendment that is a real network of protection for weak borrowers and also for all our fellow citizens who are currently facing the range of mass and no limit to auctions that are being accelerated. It will be very interesting to see the attitude of the parties in this Chamber. I have already heard the SYRIZA rapporteur be positive in that direction. I am also waiting for the rapporteur of the New Democracy, and also for the rapporteurs of the other parties, to put themselves on a specific initiative which we think gives a solution to a substantial and important problem that concerns the citizens. For the rest, I will speak in my dentext, which concerns both the reserve account and the forest maps, and of course the Ministry of Health's amendment that gives rise to interest, Minister, because while in opposition the previous government's amendment voted against it by saying that it is at the expense of the EEA, the insured and the Greek taxpayers, and suddenly you change your position and bring it forward and extend it. Ladies and gentlemen, in a bill which does not have the beginning of the Change Movement, it cannot vote in favour even if it agrees with several of the provisions it contains, because there is a contradiction between the good legislative practice on the one hand and the stitching-off provisions which unfortunately make up this bill, too. The deep sections will certainly not come with communal noise. They will come with serious and co-operation, with calm political voices aimed at solving the problems alone. They will come mainly with appropriate preparation and appropriate planning. Unfortunately, the government's legislative function and legislative practice are already showing the first signs of fatigue and confusion. And these signs, ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid, will become our new normality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the diplomatic theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House of Greeks, President Marta Grade and the intergroup delegation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Community Affairs of the House of Representatives of the Italian Embassy. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Malama, Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Malama, for her excellent report. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u180	Therefore, Bulgaria approved the requested authorisation. Congressman George Papandreou is requesting permission from a short-day absence. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u181	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Congressman Christos Kelles is requesting permission from a short-day absence. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u182	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Congressman Dimitrios Haritis is requesting permission from a short-day absence. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u183	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that forty-three colleagues have been registered. I share in the atmosphere that there will be a roll-call vote. There's no official briefing. So, please, self-discipline in times so we don't get caught at dark midnight. We move on and the reason is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about a draft law which contains acts of legislative content with various and diverse regulations, legislative regulations concerning arrangements, extensions, implementation of various issues in the context of a policy to continue the previous policies and, of course, the commitments and strategic choices of the European Union - capital which all urban parties agree with regardless of the individual differences. In this direction, the question of the CECH, which, in our view, is an unacceptable and provocative provision and energy through the MCC, which promotes the abolition of the self-employed and the change in the character of the CECH under pretext, as stated in the draft law, the restoration of good administration and financial management. Thus, the appointment of the seven-member board is foreseen by the Minister of Health, while until now the Board of Directors of the Centre was elected by collective procedures by the workers, the healed and their families, by voluntary and unpaid participation of the members of the Board of Directors, while at the same time the Minister will do its best on any matter relating to the responsibilities of the General Assembly of the Centre, the manner in which he is exercised, the convergence and the way in which he decides on matters within the competence of the General Assembly. Indeed, the Minister - we lived through this in the process of discussing the bill in committee - in order to support this option, if you like, has been successful - and we have heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy, as well as the government, in an attack and attempt to make, by means of a vehicle of Scandalology, for the important work of the CEDEFOP. We believe that the abolition of the self-employed has a multi-level political and ideological aim, since it has to do with all the healing philosophy of the organization, which is a step forward in collective action and collective responsibility, issues that are a key tool in the functioning of the healing communities since their establishment. We have been talking about an Agency, the CEFD, with a network of rehab services and social reintegration services in the country for four decades, with free programs and proven effectiveness, since they are getting 'clean' off the street, i.e. without making use of any drug, hundreds of people every year and thousands of to date. In other words, they are functionally integrated into social life and action, despite the enormous difficulties such as: Firstly, the toweling of the state budget from all the governments so far. Indicatively over the last decade, funding has been reduced by 25% and 7% in recent years. Secondly, the refusal of governments to recruit permanent staff. This results in the last decade in the staff being reduced by 20% - they had been recruited since 2009 and became thirty-five - while part-time employees have been statused, which since 2009 represent stable annually about 11% of all employees at the CEFD, which creates - and is understood - huge problems for the services provided by the employees at the CEFH. Thirdly, the obstacles raised by governments to the need to develop and serve new units of the CEEC in the country, despite the urgent demands of local societies, bodies, etc., since the acute socio-economic problems now give epidemic dimensions to the use of drugs. And this policy in our country has been served over time, successively and progressively by all governments, in order to bring our country into line with the European Union's drug strategy, since all other parties, all urban parties, are in agreement with the model of equality, contributing with their policies, to the opening up of the road to legalising drugs. Therefore, the early intervention of the Government of New Democracy is not at all a chance either, but it is precisely a question of the proper implementation of this policy, of the European Union's strategic choice to reduce dry therapeutic programmes, by paving the way for a complete compromise with the social phenomenon of drug dependence, the promotion, legalisation of the sale, use and cultivation of cannabis. This action by the Government is to be added to the strategic planning of the previous SYRIZA government, which prioritised the promotion of cooperation between all the involved actors, effectively launched the JRC by an autonomous body to become a supportive structure for the rehabilitation programmes. Thus, the philosophy, the nature of the ERCD may not have been directly questioned, but in practice all governments have been questioning him with their politics for years now. There was the KETHEA, the OkANA was built, just before the controlled use areas were built. Therefore, we have not suddenly reached this particular act of legislation. This is done on the basis of the conflict between two main strategies for dealing with toxic dependence. The CECH serves a certain perception of drug dependence, which is why they want to rinse it completely, sawing the foundations of rehab with victims of thousands of users, which deprives them of the right to change their lives. But hundreds of workers also experience uncertainty. So the multi-factor phenomenon of drugs as a social phenomenon is based - and has it - on capitalist society, but that does not mean that drug addiction cannot today change its life. On this basis, the Communist Party of Greece considers that the burden of demand by the working people's movement should be placed precisely in the policy of reducing demand, i.e. primary prevention, the creation of a pan-Hellenic public body with the sole public provision of services to prevent, defiance, social reintegration, within the Ministry of Health, but with full funding from the State and ensuring adequate scientific capacity, staff, etc. So the Communist Party is voting against - we have also tabled our opinion to the committees - the specific provision, the act of legislation, the specific article on the CSTD, and we call on the government, as we did in committee, to withdraw it. We support the essential functioning of the CEEC, the fight against practical legislative content, and we demand that its action be strengthened with new units, with permanent and sufficient staff, with full funding from the state budget, so that programmes and units of the CEEC are developed and not ending, as is the end of the European programmes. It is precisely the same objective within the framework of the same policy that, if you like, the question of the cancellation of the electricity auction is unfolded. We ask, of course, rhetorically: in what context is this movement from the present government - and also from others in the past - in which the moves and the government are being planned? What's the box? It concerns the policy of liberalisation and energy in the context of competition between business groups in energy, which is promoted without substantial changes by all governments, of course using the Energy Regulatory Authority as a tool. Where did this policy lead and where will it lead? It has therefore led, despite what the krone we have heard and heard, to improve through competition, to dramatic anti-grassroots effects. Unique winners are a bubble of large groups that invest in electricity, gaining huge profits from the huge bills paid by the populace. On the other hand, we have the hit on workers' working rights in the sector. The result? For the workers' strata a basic good, such as electricity, tends to become a luxury, and it is characteristic that even with the policy of the previous government of SYRIZA, which tightened the criteria, about a hundred and twenty thousand households were left out of this social invoice, which, in fact, the last report by the Commission on Greece describes as a market distortion. And all this occurs at the same time that PPC produces electricity at low cost from lignite and hydroelectrics, which could be available in the popular layers at low prices and at the same time, it delivers it at prices even lower than its cost to individuals, who resold it at third parties or also PPC at multiple prices than they bought it, of course. Therefore, the aim of this policy, this strategy of the European Union and all governments is to support the profitability of business groups in the field of energy, but with the workers of the industry and the people who are constantly paying - and they will pay the bill -. With regard to forest cooperatives and the extension of time limits, the negative conditions of trade and exploitation of minced timber are being perpetuated here, along with the possibility of participation in them and loggers, which was even voted on in the new development law, the “Investing” Act. As far as aquaculture is concerned, an extension had been voted again in 2006 by way of a legislative act. Now, of course, an extension is now being made to the procedure for placement of water farms. In fact, it concerns large enterprises and the arrangement for the location of their investments with a framework characterised by immunity, precisely for the benefit of this direction of facilitating entrepreneurship and investment in aquaculture, with workers, notable in the industry, claiming and being in the process of mobilising since September and trying to sign a collective labour agreement and striving to safeguard their working rights. The same objective is being pursued, and the arrangements which the Government has, of course, examined from the outset, even quickly and reflexively for the discharge of the travellers from the end of residence and the arrangements for payment of VAT due to the bankruptcy of the 'THOMAS COOK', while the measures for workers in the sector in no case - and we have said so in committee - do not meet their needs. In fact, we have also proposed to the committee and once more from this Step no worker, either who worked in a hotel management unit at the "THOMAS COOK" or in hotel units, accommodation etc. which had to do with this group, with the 'THOMAS COOK', not to remain unpaid and uninsured and, of course, to provide an extraordinary aid of EUR 1000 to those who have been unemployed or unpaid. We have also proposed that all workers should receive the unemployment benefit without conditions and restrictions, that the jobs and labour and insurance rights of workers be secured immediately, that protection should be taken against possible seizures, or breaks, etc. And these could be about banks, unpaid accounts, that is, and it goes on to say. At the same time, we have proposed the protection of small professionals at risk of bankruptcy and are talking about small accommodations, craftsmen, manufacturers and suppliers of hotels dealing with "THOMAS COOK". In the same direction, the arrangements for the first residence are also in place, i.e., rules which are part of the Stathakis Act, which lay down any protection until the end of the year, which relate to the framework for speeding up the process of repayment of the ‘red’ loans, with the risk, of course, that the auctions will operate extortionally. These are regulations that do not relieve people within the general socio-economic framework. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Of course, as in committee, we are proposing concrete proposals from this point of view. In fact, we had tabled them with an amendment that had not been accepted and had not even been discussed by the other parties. This is an amendment that we had tabled in the past which involved measures to relieve the people's family from over-charge to transfer the weight of the crisis to the banking groups, while at the same time providing for the drastic reduction in the debts of the people's families to the banks. For example, I mention debt write-offs, write-offs of interest that have been recapitalised and rebuild, debt freeze, suspension of payments, and reduction of debts to categories of self-employed other productive classes and the cessation of forced executions by credit institutions against popular families. We have also tabled amendments. In fact, one was tabled in committee. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Mr President, give me one, two minutes. We will obviously have the opportunity to say more about the amendments in secondary terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, all the rapporteurs have been allowed to speak two, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u186	I just need two minutes, Mr. President. I am not going to go into all the amendments. I would just like to refer to the amendment on the costing of medicinal products in substance, in order to formulate the price of medicinal products. In our opinion, therefore, this regulation, like all previous regulations, has nothing to benefit from. These are rules on the basis of the product - goods in the context of competition and rules which benefit the most or less from any arrangements made by the governments concerned, whether before or from the moment, the various parts of the capital that are active in the field of the medicinal product. Patients, however, will continue to pay expensive drugs, namely merchandise, while costs are high. And you all know the facts very well. With the measures of rationalisation and reduction in the substance of insurance and state expenditure on the medicine, Greeks today pay 44% more than in 2009, while state and insurance funds by 57% less, that is, doing the medicine. Of course we are proposing and suggesting that once the medicine is socially good, this should be granted free of charge to all of our people without any participation in the payment by patients, and the various lists that actually lead to the payment of 100% of the cost for medicines should be abolished. As far as the other amendments are concerned, Mr President, we shall be placed in dentistry. We are voting against the bill at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u187	Thank you. Mr. Villardos has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the first debate of the committee, we said that, as the government has used to us, the draft law submitted is fragmentary, fragmented, uncohesioned and without a single structure, and it consists of scattered and irrelevant provisions dealing with three different ministries. It is somewhat reminiscent of the well-known CDOs that led to the 2008 financial crisis, which were loans of different quality that were packed in a product to have misleadingly positive assessment for investors. Here, in all the government's bills, as in today's, positive laws are being packed for Greece along with the negative ones, so that MPs and citizens are misled in judging the bills positively or that the government blames the opposition parties that are voting against it in the name of their positive articles. One example here is the abolition of PPC NOMEs, which is undoubtedly a good action. However, this is done in the same bill, which contains the mistaken abolition of the self-employed of the CEDEFOP on the grounds of a finding he prepared and produced with his own internal control department. So, logically, a responsible opposition party, which does not judge with narrow party criteria, but with what is beneficial for the country, votes on those individual articles that are positive for the citizens and rejects what is negative. Also, as usual, the report by the General Accounting Office of the State concerning possible expenditure is vague with only three small exceptions. We are honestly unable to understand why the General Accounting Office of the State does not consider, even approximately, the cost of applying the laws of the legislation in question by quoting its affairs, as we do every time, despite the fact that we have few resources and partners at our disposal. Really, isn't that his job? Does it make sense to list only in advance his reports and usually without numbers? In the bill we have now mentioned that we are distinguishing a number of extensions which we cannot find negative, although in some of them one sees photographic arrangements. In particular, with regard to the sale of electricity by PPC by NOME auctions, we stressed that we are certainly in agreement, since they have cost the company huge amounts by bringing it to the limits of bankruptcy and should not have been carried out at any time. Furthermore, the use of NOMEs should be investigated, after they have been exported, and there was also a PPC appeal concerning who is responsible and who was wrongly benefited. However, we never understood why Greece signed PPC's charge with the pollutant clause, when neither Poland nor Bulgaria have signed anything similar with regard to the European Union, nor, of course, neighbouring Turkey. In any case, the burden began in 2013, as shown in the graph, which I submit in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Viliardos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned graph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We know that, even today, the government could abolish the clause in favour of PPC and our country, which we consider necessary for a bankrupt state which is also obliged to cope with the increased waves with which the settlement of Greece from Turkey is taking place. Unfortunately, Mr Hatzidakis avoided answering the four small questions we asked to him, leaving the Chamber, while the Deputy Minister replied to one of them, in the first place. However, he did not convince us. So we'll repeat them if we get a response from the Minister this time. Our questions were as follows: Firstly, because it gave us the impression that our country's monitors have accepted the abolition of NOMEs, which they had imposed on us, were they given to some exchanges? In this regard, the Undersecretary replied by saying that there was no return. He did not convince us, however, because, as we said to him NOME, SYRIZA did not adopt them because he wanted, but because they were imposed on him by the surveillance officers of the country, due to his refusal to sell "little" PPC. So logically they accepted their abolition, not because they were fascinated by the new government, but by exchanges, which are made clear in the second question: Did these exchanges be the sale of the rest of the IPTO and the TEDO, the monopolistic networks of PPC, which are its most valuable asset? Thirdly, will there be a committee of inquiry into the collapse of PPC, as you have already said, Mr Hatzidakis? Fourthly, why did Greece sign the Pollutant Emissions Agreement from PPC in 2013, which has cost us EUR 1.88 billion by 2018, when it has not signed it, for example, neither Poland nor Bulgaria? Why do we abolish lignite in 2028, when Germany in 2038 and the European Union obliges its Member States after 2050? In Article 2(2), which concerns the extension of the completion of projects for non-electric RES units, we have said that it should be presented on what and at what cost kilowatts, noting that in general the older RES technologies are more accurate. We believe, after a small investigation we have carried out, that it may be about PPC RES units which, for some strange reasons, had not been implemented. It is another measure that should be investigated in the PPC Committee of Inquiry. In the case of private projects, the reasons which have not been completed should first be considered and then taken into account. Furthermore, for the articles relating to 'THOMAS COOK', we believe that a reliable analysis of the existing situation is needed and a record of the damages interregionally, where appropriate, of the hotel unit concerned, in order to avoid artificial enlargement effects of the requirements. In any case, we support SETE's proposal to exempt the obligation to pay VAT for the unresolved tariffs of "THOMAS COOK", stressing that in most European countries, VAT is never collected on unrealistic tariffs and also on the non-payment of income tax for unrealistic claims, as is the case in all countries in general, as well as on speeding up the process of increasing TENS guarantees to banks for low-interest loans to companies affected by "THOMAS COOK". These measures would be much more effective than those proposed by the government. I'm tabling a proposal from the SETE for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, we have already placed ourselves on the dead ends of the Greek tourist model, with the drop of per capita expenditure and its great dependence on cheap packages, while most of its supplies come from abroad, almost 85%, compared with 25% of Italy, thus escaping a large part of the incoming tourist exchange. It cannot be an economy and a society that is blocked by just one sector. In Article 3 now, it concerns recruitment of hospital staff, etc. in hotspot, we consider that it is unacceptable, at least, not to be costed by the General Accounting Office of the State. No number of employees, average pay and other benefits are estimated, with which criteria are chosen, etc. In Article 4, on reserve appropriations in the 2020 budget, we asked how many people were, and we did not get an answer, counting between EUR 850 million and EUR 1.7 billion, depending on whether it represents a percentage of the revenues of the central or general government. In the budget, however, we did not find the expenditure for a reserve of EUR 1 billion that existed in the medium term, where, as in the SYRIZA Review Committee of 2017, we found that they were spent on reasons that were in no way extraordinary. In the same committee we also found that the balance sheet of Greece in 2017 was chaotic, without any realities. It is a great shame for our country, which seems that if it sells what it has and does not, everything that it owns, it will have a debt of EUR 212 billion, which means that it is not a bankrupt country. Where will this special reserve now come from that which the government wants to form? What are the urgent needs to meet? Did the cost of immigration, for which only EUR 138 million have been calculated in the 2020 budget, while we have calculated up to EUR 1.8 billion for some two hundred thousand illegal immigrants? Is that what we're planning for emergencies? In Article 5 for ELSTAT's overtime, we certainly agree, but the type of expenditure should be presented. As far as Article 6 is concerned, we do not think that this will be a solution to the great problem of red loans and the protection of first residence, but rather a pretext to close the eyes of the world. The solution here is one and simple, we have repeated it many times and there is no reason to discover the wheel, since others have already done so. In this respect, we mean the system adopted by the United States in the 1930s when they faced a similar problem as a product of the deep recession of their economy. Our problem, of course, is somewhat different and certainly not because of those who pay for the last decade, the Greek citizens, but because of their governments who irresponsibly overloaded the country until 2009, with their wrong policies and with their atrocious corruption, to the government that led Greece without any objective reason to the IMF, to the successive memorials, which of course continue, to the crime of the PSI and to our well-known betrayal of 2015. Suffice it to know that the average borrower in Greece had an annual income of 28,000 euros before the crisis, so he was right to borrow, and today under 8,000, in order to understand that it is certainly not his responsibility to fail to repay his mortgage, but the state that condemned him to this difficult position, reducing his income and increasing taxes without, unfortunately, any prospect of the future if the same disastrous economic policy continues. The system adopted by the United States was the establishment of a state-owned special-purpose investment company, which bought red loans from banks to solve the problem and managed them carefully, one by one, reducing interest rates, instalments, etc., so that they are citizens able to serve them. This company achieved all its objectives and closed after about twenty years with profits. If, therefore, we do not immediately launch anything similar, as the Greek Solution has adopted in its programme, the Greeks will lose their homes, while remaining in debt to the biennials, while the responsibility will be solely for their governments alone. On the other hand, it is incomprehensible that the continued support of the outdated banks by the public as with the over 40 billion euros of their capitalisation, with the EUR 17 billion deferred taxes, and today with the EUR 9 billion planned for the Hercules project, which, of course, will not pay off the anticipated, as it is all about alchemy again. And all this, without any consideration on the part of the banks, when all ‘red’ first home loans did not exceed EUR 12 billion in 2015. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For Article 8, we have said that it is a positive idea but with a micro-political logic. In fact, it prioritises the performance of money by the NSRF for projects on the islands affected by immigration, such as Leros, Kos, Kalymnos, Agathonisi, Symi, Lesvos, Samos, Chios and Kastelorizo. In other words, this is a kind of money laundering, so that the rage can be tempered. In Article 13, we consider that the self-government of the CEEC should be maintained, but with transparency and control by the State. This issue should be dealt with very carefully, which is the responsibility of all of us, since what we should be interested in is the health of the patient in the organization rather than in political games. However, we agree with its founder, in which, whatever the problems of the JETD at this stage, they will be aggravated by the appointment of the board of directors by the Minister. We are in favour of the solution for small JETs per region, with their own general meetings and with their own management councils, with the participation of the local society concerned. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. With regard to Article 14, with the extension for aquaculture areas, we propose that an effort be made to include short islands at our maritime borders for geopolitical purposes, such as those mentioned in our programme in detail. Finally, with regard to the setting up of a committee on climate change in Article 15, we should know the costs, and with Article 18 we do not agree because we are against the state of staff. With Article 19, which relates to health tourism, we naturally agree, and believe that alternative forms of high-level should be promoted. We also agree with Article 20, because there needs to be a reorganisation of the space, with proper standards, in order to gain greater added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u189	Thank you. Mr Criton Arsenis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in practice it is a mini-inquiry of the government which we are discussing. It is a bill which brings an illegal MDG, an MDG that goes completely away from every rule laid down by Greek legislation on legal acts. A legislative act can come when there is no Parliament, or when there is an urgent reason, a humanitarian crisis, etc. We waited a month and a half to find out what the reason for this MDG was and never came. For one-and-a-half months and while the citizens, the employees of the CEDEFOP and the MPs have been asking what the reason for the CEDEFOP is, how the urgency is established, what the crisis is coming to be, there was no answer. And the Ministry and the Government came in after a month and a half to tell us that there is a document from the ERCF, which describes some problems - even criminal issues - that have been identified in a program of the ERCF, "Prometheus". And we've discovered two pounds. We discovered that, firstly, the government was informed a day and a half ago - that is, one and a half months after this PPP - and secondly, that this document is an internal procedure of the CTEH, which it alone did, was self-cleared, made decisions that it needed to improve in one of its ten centres throughout Greece. I wonder: Which ESA to the Greek Police has gone through over the last too many years? I have never seen, except in cases of homicide or in case of involvement in criminal organisations, for any question of misuse of power by an ETP to move forward. Here we have a self-sufficient institution that cleanssssssssssssssss. I don't know any other body in Greece to do it. After that, and as the value of the text was dismantled, you brought us the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, which relates to 2017, which deals with various issues of financial management. And there are various problems in the operation of the ERCF. But the CEDEFOP is not working in a vacant manner. We reviewed the website of the Parliament and found the overall report of the General Accounting Office of the State for 2017 for all the bodies it examined. And what we discovered was very impressive. We discovered that of the three hospitals examined by the General Accounting Office of the State, the two hospitals were more rated than the Ministry of Health, from the three district administrations of the region, the two were more rated than the Ministry of the State's General Accounting, one was more rated and the other had the same ranking as the Ministry of Health, while the two municipalities were more rated than the State's General Accounting Office. When one of the two municipalities was the Municipality of Athens. So this story goes a little bit back on your retrospective attempt to justify unjustified work. An illegal act of legislative content, which even violates this institution in legislation in Greece. Now the question remains: Why did you make this decision about the CTE? It's clear you took her for political reasons. It was a policy of your targeting. And that's what you should go out and say very well. It would be more honorable for you to say it voluntarily. The fact that you've been trying to rampage people who have been set up and operated for over thirty-five years has been a model institution in Greece, the people who you yourself say in your rhetoric that you honor and yet your rapporteur has personally attacked the workers and procedures in there...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u191	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u192	Yeah, that's what I understood. And, unfortunately, that's what the workers understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u193	You've got the wrong idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u194	And from the statements of yours, the workers have come to break out even tears in the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u195	I didn't attack the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u196	It did not attack as you said no worker in the workers. There is an internal procedure. The fact that there are no SADs to other public bodies is measurable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Comrade, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u198	Employees have succeeded against workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Tsavdaridis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u200	I heard you carefully. Once again, you have soared workers. And we're talking about an agency that you say works properly and honor them. And yet, you're trying to smash them in every way and in every word. Why? To justify undocumented. Instead of coming out well and saying that the political reasons are that you want the political control of the CEDEFOP, that you do not want the independent function, you want to avoid the appointment of a specific candidate to the CEDEFOP, as president of the CEDEFOP, through the democratic process, instead of saying gladly, "yes, I want to check the self-employed of the CEDEFOP, stop and control it," you bring papers that smash the workers, smash all this effort. KETHEA is the only example in Greece, where a wider public body is a UN scientific consultant. And it is a UN scientific advisor for a particular reason: because it is a global example of operation. But there is also a formal reason: because it is self-sufficient and independent. You are, at the moment, abolishing this independence. You call on you to bring greater powers to the General Assembly, when it comes to the functioning of the General Assembly and the powers will be defined by no means through a ministerial decision. We were told by the workers that this new management board you appoint - and on the basis of the law - is paid. You're talking about full-time president replacing an unpaid board. This will not work in practice with the board of directors and with the CECH for a very simple reason. Because in the structure of the CEDEFOP there is participation. The healing or family, the workers are a group, a healing community. He's not a single person. It's a community. And they act like a community. And this is part of the treatment and the therapeutic method. That's what you're breaking up with. What we see is that the ultimate purpose is to make a combination later of the ERCEA with OKANA. In fact, there should be a combination of two quite different models, a combination of a model of community and a more typical public body.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u201	Did you see that somewhere in the Minutes, in a speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u202	That's our estimate, that you're going there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u203	Minister, you'll talk to me later. Mr Arseni, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u204	In the rapporteur's report you say that you want the same model of supervision of the two agencies, such as the OECD. There are references in each case to indicate. So the question that is being raised here is: Why is there this disturbance with the CITES? Other colleagues have mentioned this. I, too, referred to the committee. This is a general phenomenon that we are observing. Anything that has the meaning of self-employed, uncontrolled by the government, you're abolishing it. We saw both the Ottas and the municipalities how you abolished the simple analogue. This is something that looks like you don't want anything that gets out of control of a man, as a rule, first. Many colleagues from the New Democracy, even in interviews, talked about a left hegemony to be abolished at the CEDEFOP. We wonder what the right hegemony is going to be set up right now. As far as society is concerned, and as far as rehab, this hegemony is concerned, we fear it is a hegemony of repression and privatisation. As far as PPC is concerned, it is a drama that lasts for a long time. For at least ten years, at least, there has been a steady and progressive depreciation of PPC and a strengthening of the interests of individuals by increasing the tariffs, so that, otherwise, private individuals can compete with PPC - with a guaranteed profit to private individuals at the expense of PPC and the NOMEs. You're the one who's pulling out the NOMEs. And it's a surprise, because it's a commitment to the NOME creditors. We have to assume that lenders agree with you. Therefore, we have to assume that you have set out plans for the privatisation with which I have agreed. Otherwise, we cannot understand how otherwise they agree to abolish a measure which they themselves have put forward. As far as the Greek issue is concerned, we are deeply concerned about this provision. In fact, it leaves the public spaces indefinitely to Mr Latsis. This is our reading. It's no timeline for the towns to return. As far as the Hymatt's decree on the suspension of building permits is concerned, we agree with the suspension. But we are concerned about why the presidential decree is being delayed. We fear that when this presidential decree comes, it will allow and authorize harmful activities. We want to highlight the illegal work currently taking place in Ilioupoli, in the piece of Hymettos, as regards the church of Prophet Elias. We are also afraid there of the creation of fait accomplis, as far as property is concerned. With regard to 'THOMAS COOK', Mr Logiadis will also speak, who is an tourism expert at Mera25. The agencies came and told us. There are no measures you propose. In practice, they do not respond to the problem of workers or hoteliers. For the Climate Change Committee, what we consider to be central is to become a functional register of civil society actors and to create a participatory body, in terms of tackling climate change. Because measures to deal with must be the property of all citizens. He could appoint some members of the government. Some members of civil society and wider bodies could be appointed and there could be broad representation. It must be a matter for everyone to face up to climate change. And ideas must come from society. I would like to refer to another issue, which concerns western Athens. And I would like to make a call from the Stepma to all my fellow Members of all the parties from West Athens to create a common front for two issues that burn down the ground. It's an area with a heavy environmental burden. And yet, at the moment, it is threatened by the expansion of the HYTHTA Gender in Musama quarry, two hundred meters from the urban fabric of Petroupoli and the Metropolitan Church of Lamia claiming - and it seems likely that it will win at the court of Appeal - and not much, Poikilo Mount, the whole mountain and two hundred thirty blocks of houses in Petroupoli and Peristeri. It is a moment when we need to get through the parties and act together. I call on all the regional MPs, colleagues to join together the mayors who have created a common front in the past days and to go and meet the region's MP, the Prime Minister, on this very matter. Two legislative initiatives need to be taken: To become a regional park the Poikilo Mount, as provided for in the regulations and to make legislation so that when there is a legal person governed by public law who claims public property or has the ownership of public property, it is automatically granted to the municipalities, if it is used for public use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr Arsenis, for the time. Then the Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, will speak. Then will the Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, speak. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Velopoulos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u206	He'll talk this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u207	Okay. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make three main political comments. The Deputy Minister, Mr Economou, is here to speak on other issues in particular. I will start my position on various observations made on higher education, to express my surprise, which, even in an unrelated law-enforcement bill, SYRIZA has found the opportunity to express its reaction to the lawfulness and the effort of Greece to become a modern European state. What is the New Democracy Government doing, ladies and gentlemen? She is applying her election programme. And it was our commitment to the Greek citizens that we would abolish the asylum. We have abolished it and we are applying these provisions. Because until now the only area without asylum of ideas - free movement of ideas - was the universities themselves. But you say there was no such law, there was no such history and you saw the images that we saw at the University of Athens recently, and these images were the result of action by a far-right organization. Wouldn't you condemn? Would you like it? Would you say good for the far right people who do all this? Let's tolerate them, because it's the university asylum? You'd probably be condemned, and you'd be doing very well. Well, as we all condemn our far right-wing extremists, we must condemn the left-wing wrestlers. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wonder what power keeps you from making a real turn to progress and not to stick to the old 3% of SYRIZA, which is a political barbaric of yours and cuts you off from the very broad social base of SYRIZA, because I, personally, am sure that all the things that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis applies to higher education do not only receive the acceptance of our own fans, but also an important part of your own fans. So you are hostages of strangles and dogmas, and this whole situation shows that you cannot monitor modern social developments. That is my first point. I come to make two comments on the bill in this respect, one on PPC and one on Greek. For PPC, ladies and gentlemen - this particular bill will come in the next few days to modernise PPC itself - we are coming and we are abolishing NOME auctions. Let's go again, so the last Greek can find out behind these Sanskrit auctions NOME what's hidden. The decision of the government of Tsipras to abandon what the government of Samaras promoted, namely the "little" PPC, the privatisation of PPC 1/3, on the basis of which we would be okay for our European partners who were pushing ahead with the liberalisation of the energy market to reduce PPC's share, but we would not only be okay towards our partners, would PPC put money in its pocket and was then calculated to put 1,5 to 2 billion. You, while privatising IPTO and DESFA in the field of energy, decided, to show how left you are, to abandon the model of "small" PPC. And what did you agree to? You agreed in the summer of 15 - that was agreed - that PPC should go from 95% of its market, to 50% equal to 2020. And how could that be achieved? Through the NOME auctions that you started and agreed in the NOME auctions, PPC sells to its competitors, in its great interests, below its cost, so that competitors can make the guys with PPC money. That is what you have agreed to, otherwise, against the great interests. We would therefore expect, on the occasion of the vote on this bill, an self-criticism, an explanation for your attitude. You, however, steadfastly shake your finger and your rapporteur, my dear, and to all of us Mr Papadopoulos, because this is your party line - that we had established the NOMEs. No, it's a big lie. The Samara government, whatever you can bring here, discussed the period you say alternatively - because it could not be cumulative, the troika said it - whether NOME or PPC "little" on the one hand or "little" on the other, and chose "little" PPC. On the one hand, we chose the "small" PPC and we would have the evolution that I described earlier, there was no reason for any person involved in energy but also for any political party to accept the other solution. And the fact that you introduced NOMEs is evidence that since 2016 they have started to apply. If I'm not mistaken, the Samara government fell in November 2015. Why did the NOME start from the middle of '16 and then apply? Things are very clear. You've messed up at PPC. You delivered a dramatic situation, we rushed with emergency measures in the summer that passed us to deal with this situation, and now we have two certificates, one of the sworn auditors who say that PPC pulled its nose out of the water and a second of "STANDARS AND POORS", which upgraded PPC's credit rating. This is the situation and we will have the possibility and the next few days to discuss the matter in detail, on the basis of the bill on energy and PPC. But here, I think it is clear that there is a political spot for the Tsipra government and SYRIZA. The government of Tsipras and SYRIZA agreed to make a free privatisation of PPC, because you decided to limit almost half of PPC's share, for zero financial consideration for the company, but even more, to implement this peculiar privatisation, you decided to pay even more than 600 million for PPC's competitors. And then you claim to be socially sensitive, that you are the party that hurts the poor, who fights interests and so on. That should at some point be explained by your leader himself. I conclude with the most famous theme of the Greek, where the government is again preparing signs and monsters. What is the matter with the Greek bill? The legislation for the Hellenic Republic provides for the adoption of a common ministerial decision, including the adoption of the urban studies and the establishment of orbit lines, public and public areas, as well as social recompense areas. On this basis, the government of SYRIZA by law in 2018, as it had acceded to the view that the Greek - theoretically, of course, had acceded but - stated that the tradition of the public spaces would not take place once, immediately after the building of the respective areas, but partially. Did he do it right? He was right to do so, due to the specificities of the Greek. So he gave the space to the investor to shape them. But at the same time SYRIZA failed to amend article 3 of the n. 4062/12 for the Greek that says that the spaces after the building will be attributed once and for all to public use. So, there was an anti-corruption. There were two different laws confronting each other. Well, that's what we're coming to fix. And we come to harmonize ourselves with the spirit of the law of SYRIZA, which, in any case, accuses us of the fact that we are in harmony with him. Get out of the way. And what's the argument? And Latsis when will he give the public spaces to the world? I imagine Latsis will sit in the streets and the parks, keep them forever, will never give them up and try to give the houses and everything else that's built there on their own, without the streets! Because the people who are going to stay there, the businesses that will settle, etc., don't want roads, they don't want public spaces, they don't want any of this! Ladies and gentlemen, the common sense says that, regardless of any arrangements we want to bring, any investor that has any reason to give the public spaces along with the rest of the investment. In any case, though, because you still have doubts, the Deputy Minister, Mr Economou, will then present an amendment which will be amused, I would like to believe, and your last concerns. However, the essential thing is that while you were making a cubicosis and were, in theory, trying to move on to the investment in Greek, we had said it in the run-up to the election, said it, after all, that we are promoting this investment on the substance, because we consider it to be an investment in the whole area and we also consider it to be a symbolic investment, which will send out thousands of jobs to create a message of re-launching the Greek economy. And the resumption of the Greek economy will take place with the laws that we pass, but also with the daily decisions and work of the Government of New Democracy and not with theories like SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u209	Thank you. The speech is given by the Secretary-General of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, these days the New Democracy Government, which, at the very first time, we said, entered with a view to implementing anti-grassroots policy on behalf of capital, gives its way to prove that this policy is being imposed with a intensity of authoritarianism and repression. What should we talk about first? For the Criminal Codes incorporating reactive institutions that broaden the provisions of the 'terrorist' so that any simple crime can be described as a terrorist act? For the changes to the trade union law, where your main aim is to put the working movement on the electronic plaster? For all this, of course, you don't have any complaints. You've found enough ready work from SYRIZA and proceed with it in your well-known way. What, really, should we talk about? Is it a violation of the asylum and the attack on students who protested about the ‘lock-out’ in ASAP on Monday morning? For the arrests of students and what of course followed by the climate of police rule, which he well holds, even the advance announcement of the tension by your Minister? All this time, thousands of students fill up the amphitheatres, collectively discuss, decide mobilizations for the cost of their studies, for the degrees they put them in the frame because they don't find work, for the shortcomings in housing and infrastructure. They reject your fairy tales that they are supposed to receive from a development, from which only a few, business groups, and you can be sure that they will respond to authoritarianism and the repression of mass and racing. The expression of government authoritarianism is, of course, the intervention of the JITHA. Since the first time the government's legislative act on the appointment of the members of the board of directors of the JETA as a party was announced, we opposed it. We objected, because we consider it to be a political intervention of the government aimed at hitting on the very philosophy of what the JETHA advocates, namely the philosophy of 'hot' treatment. And it could not be different, since the strategy pursued in the field of drug dependence is the management of the problem, the management of the damage caused by dependence. The European Union's policy on drug dependence through the eight different strategic plans which have changed since the Maastricht Treaty has identified drug addiction as a medical problem, in particular. That is why he proposes heroin substitutes as a model, such as methadone and buprenorphine. The European Union's policy on drugs itself is clearly trying to cover up the real cause of the phenomenon, which is basically the socio-economic conditions in which it appears. Unfortunately, this European Union policy, in which all parties drink water in its name, has been implemented successively in our country by all governments to date. It is a policy that acquiescites drug addiction and disconnects it from its social causes, aims at creating social tolerance to the phenomenon, creating a attitude of medicalization, and thus also overcoming the phenomenon, thus strengthening the profitability of the pharmaceutical industry with the mass production of heroin substitutes. It maintains the phenomenon of drug addiction, after disconnecting it from the causes of it and reproducing it. Reliance on psychoactive substances is a social phenomenon, involving many factors, family, society, culture, economic situation, cultural environment, the individual's own personality. So we're talking about a social phenomenon, which is multifactorial and has its roots as to how it appears and spread the dead ends of this system, capitalism, to man. The way you approach the nature of dependency is a necessary condition to deal with it. Approaching dependence to a tendency to medicalization, you face it, especially pharmacologically, with heroin substitutes. Approaching dependence as a dynamic and continuous phenomenon, because it is not the profile of the user of the 1960s with that of the 1990s and today, that is, it is a multifactor, you can face it through the "hot" therapeutic approach. We support the strengthening of 'hot' treatment, in particular, for what is intended as a therapeutic philosophy. He aims to free man from any relationship of dependency with any addiction factor. With this starting point we have supported for so many years the very philosophy that KETHEA promotes, as well as the other "solid" programs in our country, such as "18 ANNO", "ARGO" at the Psychiatric Hospital of Thessaloniki and the unit "DIAPULOS" at Corfu Hospital. We say clearly that the government's appointment of the Board of Directors of the CDEO is immediate interference in its nature, its functioning, with the aim of conducting the so-called government policy on drugs and addictions, as has been done all these years with the OECD. We want to focus on one or two issues which we consider to be very serious and which reveal the strategic conclusion of all other parties and the issue of drugs. We believe that SYRIZA's interest in the hit at the Cytheas and his philosophy as a "solid" therapeutic programme is hypocritical, when all his policy as a government on the drugs issue was actually turning the way, in order to make social tolerance and dependence on them. The policy pursued by the previous government, in essence, has made the prevention and treatment even more prevalent, since social tolerance for drugs is being banished in the young and the general population by the motivation for treatment. Why? Do you not all agree today with the unscientific separation of drugs into hard and soft as if there were tough and soft causes that turn a young man into use and dependency? For us it is not important to use or depend on the chemical nature of the substance, but the consequences for the alienation of human beings from the community as a whole, for their desocialisation, that is to say in society itself. Why? Don't you all agree to the legalization of cannabis drugs? You have given the cannabis the properties of industrial and medicine because you are interested in legalising the recreational use of cannabis. I mean, to accept as a way of having fun getting away from reality. You know very well what you're doing and where you're targeting. The basis of your agreement is to accept narcoculturia as a way of life. You are all cut off on the individual right to use drugs by isolating the social causes that turn a young man into drugs after you have already trampled against him every other right to education, health, work, sport, culture and anti-Flanders policy. To defend your policy to walk without reaction the strategy for the profitability of big capital you want the least possible reactions, and social and political experience itself has shown that drug proliferation is also being used as a means of social repression. You want the youth drugged and on the margin, you want people shadows outside of any social action. From this point of view, you also agree with the sites of supervised use. You don't really care about the user, just not to bother and not to be visible to you, not to spoil the castle of Athens to become the center of the most attractive for the needs of the tourist capital. The very acceptance of supervised use sites, which was opened by New Democracy in 2012 and in 2018 by SYRIZA, shows, not only your perception of dependencies, but especially how you want man, outside of social life and action. What will you achieve with supervised use sites? Create even greater tolerance for the social phenomenon of drug addiction, transfer the dishes to degraded areas away from the center of Athens. With your policy successively all PASOK governments, New Democracy, you have put a lot of water into the mill so that drugs can also be acquitted to social consciousness, especially to young people, but also to denounce any motive for treatment. The policy that governments have successively pursued in our country on the drugs issue is the one that has acquitted the drugs. That is why today we have a triple of use in school ages, young girls, that is, schoolchildren being more dynamically used mainly by pills, drug experiments and, above all, cannabis has gone down to fourteen years, that is, high school. We are not a long way from what is happening in countries of the European Union, the United States of America, which have legalised drugs and are constantly increasing their use, as are crime. Such is your American and European model. It is no coincidence that while in Greece the average use of cannabis in the school population is close to 9%, the whole of the European Union is close to 24% and the United States of America to 36%. Life itself and social experience have shown that in countries where cannabis was legitimized or tolerant in its use, use has multiplied in very small ages. The average use at school age in the Czech Republic now reaches 54%, in France at 42%, in Spain at 39%, in Denmark at 38%. That is where your own policy and the same period you come and deceive even more of dry treatment. As I said before, all dependencies must not be seen statically, but as a social phenomenon, which is objectively constantly evolving, so that you can adapt to the situation. Today the user profile in our country is determined by multi-drugs, since in our country seven out of ten dependants are using more than three substances at the same time. We must therefore ask ourselves how effective the model of management is essentially dependency on heroin substitutes, when purely heroin addicts are today a small subpopulation within all these dependents. The total failure of the approach to heroin substitutes as treatment has already been answered by life itself. For example, in countries in Europe, methadone is the main substance of dependence, for which it is intended for a dry programme, such as in Denmark, which is about one in two, while in the same country 45% of drug deaths are based on methadone. We again say that we as a party support and propose the dry therapeutic approach, because it is aimed at all substances, such as drugs, alcohol, because it can respond to the evolution of dependency and new dependency, such as the internet or gambling, but most importantly because it aims to release people from any relationship with any addiction factor. It strengthens man's ability to identify within society as a social body. In this process of accountability and action, the self-sufficient at the CECH as a whole part of the therapeutic approach for the dependant is based. Our conception of the issue of drug dependence is based on the position of man as a social being in the centre of society as a producer and also a participant in the exercise of political and social life. The society for which we fight puts man and his expanded needs at the centre, puts man as a protagonist and creator of society itself. No human can and must be on the margin of life and action. From this point of view, we, as a party, have a solid front with all drugs, with psychotropic addictions. We want the young man with a clean mind, with a clear thought, capable of fighting for his life, capable of bringing life to the measures of his own needs. Our concept of dealing with the phenomenon today is based on the three-fold primary prevention - treatment - social reintegration. In other words, the emphasis on prevention in populations, which have not yet been experimented with substances, a dry therapeutic approach with substitution programmes to deal with very specific populations, such as older users, pregnant, etc. - and to do so, for example through psychological support from the user - essential measures for the social reintegration of the former user or dependant, such as work support, training for stigmatisation and so on. We demand that the Government of New Democracy, taking advantage of the way SYRIZA has opened and on the issue of drug treatment that seems to lead in the synergy of two completely different philosophies of substitution and dry treatment, now withdraw the act of legislative content for KETHA. We as a party do not enter the bazaars for a more supposedly corrected or more allegedly self-government proposal for the JITHA. For example, the government says, I'm going to fund the JETD with 20 million a year. But are the need for rehab? The ERCF has been depreciated from funding and staff in recent years. Over the last decade we have had a decrease in government funding by 25%, a reduction of 7% in the last year by the SYRIZA government. Recruitment of permanent staff took place in 2009 and only thirty-five in 2017. Over the last 10 years, the staff of the CEEC have been reduced by 20% and part-time workers have now become status, which since 2009 have been a constant figure of about 11% of their employees every year. We saw what happened with the seven multi-powered units of the ERCF, which closed down four years ago, namely when funding from the NSRC stopped, leaving hundreds of double-diagnosis dependent on the air, and especially in places such as rehab with the objectively fixed therapist-therapist relationship seems to be much more necessary than fixed and permanent work. The CTEH in the four decades of its activity in our country has given examples of writing. There are thousands of young people, their families who from the drug road today are functionally integrated into social life and action. The JRC will take the lead, not only in order to preserve this nature of the JRC, but also in order to strengthen its action with new units, with sufficient permanent staff, with full and adequate budget funding. That is why we call on the workers, the healing workers, their families and the whole society to give the battle and after this vote today, after this act of legislation, so as not to alter the character of the CDEH itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u211	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few points about the procedure, because I am being asked by fellow Members when the list of Members will begin. I have been asked - and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the reason immediately after Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou from SYRIZA, and then Minister Kikilias.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, after Mr. Kiklia, I can go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I too would like to have the floor for an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u214	Minister, this is another matter. I would like to say to the other Members of Parliament and to the Government that we must give three, four Members of Parliament the opportunity to speak and to become a circle. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and Mr Kikilias had requested the floor and it is no different. After Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, Mr Kikilias will speak and then three Members will speak. Mr President, you have the floor, but I would ask you to wait for a minute for Mr Vorides to develop his amendment. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President. The amendment was tabled by a general number 86 and a special 16, which regulates a quite specific, critical and urgent issue and that is why we have tabled it in this procedure. The question that has arisen is as follows: It regulates the question of the case of cooperatives, partnerships which had in their composition forest cooperatives. It was established by law on cooperatives in 2016 that forest cooperatives had to leave in case they participated in these agricultural partnerships. I do not intervene in this matter, nor do I open up this debate. I maintain this arrangement, as it were, because this is something that we will address and discuss in general the cooperatives law that we are about to table. So, at the moment, this arrangement is in principle maintained, but this arrangement was not valid, that is, I am explaining: it did not say what would happen to a rural partnership, partnership or cooperative that does not comply with this provision and does not carry out the forest cooperative from its composition. He had no penalty. If they came to my office and asked me what would happen to those who had it in, what would happen to us if we did not comply, they were not expected to suffer anything, and there was no length of compliance. It was not a year from which they had to comply. Aifne, with a parliamentary amendment tabled by Members of the SYRIZA in 2017, it is said that the amendment says that those who had not complied by the time the amendment was tabled, are automatically resolved, that is, that there is no room for compliance, and that we go to the tougher ratification that exists, disappears the legal person, disappears the partnership, disappears the cooperative, solves - pay attention! - and a diplomatic ministerial decision is issued that says they've been solved. So I come with this provision, and what am I saying? I treat this scandalous inconsistency of this 2017 provision and say that I urge a deadline to comply with the 2016 Act and if they do not comply with the 2016 Act, they will have the sanction that was later laid down by the 2018 Act, a 2018 provision, which says they will be deleted from the register of agricultural cooperatives if they do not comply. This, if not done, should we know that the partnerships and partnerships, particularly partnerships, will be automatically solved. I can tell you what case this is. This is a specific case. It is about a particular cooperative, the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives in Kiatos. It is an association that has suffered this temperate and unintentional treatment without - I stress it - ever being able to comply or not to comply. So that is what is being solved and must be resolved. We are talking about an association, which is active. Okay, if it does not comply with the law, it will be subject to sanctions, but we will allow it to comply or not to comply with the law and not to be implemented by a parliamentary amendment, which has not given it an hour to decide what people will do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u216	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty students and students and five teachers from the 6th Elementary School of Nea Ionia Magnesia and the Municipal School of Askyfos Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, to see what it means I horizontally relieve the Greek society, the vulnerable groups, the non-exhaustives who contribute to the Greek economy, taxation and how the New Democracy, the Government exercises social policy. I have had the honour of tabling today an amendment to the House to change the existing legislation tabled by the former Minister of Health and SYRIZA on increases in the prices of medicines to 10%, which would obviously also mean a burden for the Greek economy through the government, but obviously also for the participation which Greek taxpayers and insured persons would have to bear. The New Democracy has tabled an amendment, which will either be voted on today or not, and I call on all parties to vote for it, where increases are not allowed. We are legislating for zero increases in medicines and up to 7% reductions. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that Greek taxpayers - obviously - will see a reduction in the amount of participation in the compensation of medical expenses. I think this is a very important initiative, which shows the government's social face. We are ambitious to bring more of these into the future, in order to show that, at a very difficult time, we support the average Greek family, we support the vulnerable groups, we support the pensioners, we support all those who are involved in the pharmaceutical expenditure, because they need drugs. That is the one amendment. Now, what it has to do - I will go to the explanatory statement and the amendment order that we tabled - by ratifying an amendment to the contract between the Greek State and the Niarchos Foundation, I would simply like to inform you that after negotiations, which had taken place with the previous government, and due to the failure to approve by the board of directors of the "Electronics" concession of the space within the hospital and by recognising the need to support the nursing sector in Greece, one donation is replaced with another similar, which has to do with the Department of Nursing School of Health of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and the Professional School of Hospital of Hospital of Hospital of Athens "Evangelism - Ophthalmia in Athens - Polyclimate". Also, following an evaluation of the needs of the area of Laconia and the effort to further strengthen the wider area, after prior discussion and assent of the Greek State, the Foundation decided to approve the donation for the establishment of a new General Hospital in Sparta. Also, with the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the need for the construction of a parking space and a helico for the service of the "Pedon" Hospital of Thessaloniki will be covered. Also, very importantly, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the Direct Services of the EKAV Aerospaces - which we all know is how important it is, on the basis of the country's relief map, the many remote areas and the many islands - decided and approved the supply together with the two new aircraft and two new helicopters, in order to be used by the Air Force, to be in the power of the EKA and to be able to become aerospaces. Following the encouragement of the institution - and quite rightly so, in our view, since the governors are already in their positions and have been appointed by the previous government - and acknowledging the percentage of the increase in intra-societal infections, the relevant funding has been decided on the development and implementation of educational programmes for intra-societal infections and the management of the wound and, of course, on the amendment of Project 6 for the supply and installation of special medical equipment - PET, tomography, etc. But now, I'd like to come to the theme of ERCE. You know, with great interest and respect for all my fellow Members, the Government and the Members of the Chamber of Deputies have followed for a long time the positions of all of you both within Parliament, in the committees and in the public forums, what it has to do with the CITES. I often feel that while there is a very high degree of understanding, it is like making parallel monologues. If I exclude the ideological position made by the Secretary-General of the JRC - which is absolutely respectable - for which the only thing I have to say is that the government, as a way of treating it, supports the dry restoration to them, for which science says that this restoration is appropriate, I have heard colleagues here today repeat what they have said in committee. We see you repeating them in plenary, as if you hadn't heard. Ladies and gentlemen, have you not heard the committees that the New Democracy Government supports the public nature of the ERM? That it supports public funding through the state koruna and also the increase in funding? That he strengthens his General Assembly? That he accepts and supports the fact that there must be SPOKs, Director General, autonomy in the operation of local communities, as was the case in the past, but also autonomy of the organisation? Didn't you hear all this? Did we not talk about this in the Commission? Obviously, we've been through this. But you chose to pass them for the sake of what impresses us. You know what? In all the other manifestations of your political speech, you are talking about good administration, about respect for the money of Greek taxpayers, about how, after a very great crisis and a very great strain and pressure suffered by the average Greek family, the Greek people, we must respect them, about the fact that there must be control over them and that it is an obligation for the institutionalised state to control them. But I see that you're getting past all this. We told you at the outset that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy feels the obligation, with all that we are discussing in the field of health - and not only there, but also for other bodies that are too strict - to check where the Greek taxpayer's money is going. It is 20 million for twenty-five years that an NGO has been embedded in the Ministry of Health, and we consider that to be reasonable. We told you all along. You chose then to ignore it with far higher tons. The government and the Ministry of Health have endured this misfortune. Why? I told you, ladies and gentlemen, that this should not be taken as weakness, but rather as respect for the evidence - and not in the rumours that had reached our ears. I think it is incomprehensible for a Minister of Health to operate on the basis of gossip and adopt things which cannot be substantiated. And I didn't, and we didn't. But I have brought you to the committees and it has been made publicly known, the findings of the workers themselves at the CECH - take note of what was appointed by the previous management of the CECH - who were under the approval of the previous political leadership in its way. They did an autonomous internal investigation and submitted a finding, which was not static, but in a period of a few years, in what it has to do, not with one hundred ten units - as a colleague said - but a very large program, the Programme in Prison Passengers, which, if you like, was, as from 2015, the jewel of the CTE. That's how some people advertised it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need two more minutes. They were revealed by the workers signs and monsters. There was a circuit, which was illegally using drugs, which anointed drug dealers to potential parts of the CSE’s defiance. It may involve penitentiaries, lawyers, employees of the CEDEFOP, as well as employees of the CEDEFOP. There have been pressures psychologically, irregularities, which, in the knowledge of some people, have concealed. Along with this - so as not to get far, I told the committee too - the GCC's investigation comes, which it then ordered, on the government of SYRIZA, the GFCF and came to score the CTE not like some, not rightly, mentioned at good level one or two in four, but three in four and talked about specific problems. He spoke of invoices, which control and control were himself, the cashier and he controlled were himself, the same signature. He spoke about 2017, a whole year, that is in transparency nothing about the ERTH. C.E.E.L.D. didn't disclose anything and anything. He talked about things. But did you choose to pass it like this lightly? Really? So, with two yards and two weights, is there any one who weighs the money of the Greek taxpayers? It is the will of the Government of the New Democracy and this administration has been appointed, that there should be a thorough review of the Greek taxpayer's finances and that we should really know where the Greek taxpayer's money has gone. We're backing it up for the C.E.E.L.E.L.D. This way in which we conduct the administration proves we support the CTE. Why? His whole structure and physiognomy, the acquaintances - and this you hid from the Greek society - know that the board of directors does not participate in the administration.The Director-General and the SPCOs participate in the administration. It is nominated once by the Board. and updated. This is the operation of the CEDEFOP, as set out. You have concealed from the Greek people the words of the founder of KETHEVA Mr. Zafiridis. Mr Zafiris himself speaks very much about the way the CECH has acted. I've submitted them to the committee's minutes. So you should welcome and say that there is indeed one issue here, which we need to explore, in order to support the CEFH and to admit over time the very important importance it is for those children who are trying to disarm, but also for their families and for the Greek society. There is no mood for a correspondence in this. But let's also admit a reality. Let us at least be realistic about what we are facing. Can I tell you something else? The country doesn't have a national drug strategy and it didn't. We are one of the last countries in the European Union that does not have. Nor are you prepared to admit that we must, in this way, evaluate these programmes and see what they are doing and whether they are in return?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u218	There wasn't a single one found. (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u219	Please do not interrupt me. I've never interrupted anyone in my life.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u220	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u221	You're insisting on interrupting me, Mr. President. So because you are also from Northern Greece, I tell you that Mr. Zafiridis himself said in the program "ITHAKI", which in the structure is eighty beds, at the moment all and all the users who are trying to get them off the ground are fifteen. In the other, in Larissa, while she's ninety, she's twenty. So there are other problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u222	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Colleague, you're insisting on interrupting me for the third time. So I'm telling you, instead of consenting to the obvious, you're always trying to overcome it. So to prove myself to the government that it really means the concept of objective evaluation and how it considers things to be going even further in the CEDEFOP, I tell you that, because Greece is the only country in Europe that does not have a national drug strategy and because the previous government has appointed a national drug coordinator - it is here today, and it is Mr. Christos Quimtsidis - the government will appoint the national drug coordinator head of the independent committee. It will give him time, as necessary, to investigate with scientific criteria how the entire CTE has operated, as well as its individual programmes. Man will make us with the committee a suggestion of how he believes the CTE should work, strengthening it and supporting the healing initiatives and so on. And obviously this suggestion will be taken very seriously by the government. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] So I would tell you that after that, there is no excuse not to support our initiative in what has to do with the CEDEFOP. I do not want to go far enough, but I would just like to say: Health policy, drug policy, policy for those who really need support and assistance, namely the ESS, the free national health system and how it can be supported, is the first priority for us. But I told you here in the programme reports that we must be realistic and know what you have handed in, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate-General, and on the basis of what you have handed over, see where we really are going. I think it was ransoming the written testimony of the managers of the U.S. Hospitals for where our hospitals are located. So there is a positive option, there is a good mood and there is no mood for personal and political dispute. All this is outside and beyond the philosophy of the Ministry of Health leadership. Indeed, for many years, some things have not just been done, but they have unfortunately deteriorated. There is a good intention to improve something that we all see is very difficult, since the health sector's finances are specifically, the resources are reasoned, the system is ageing and we must support it. I think that, in the interests of the patient, we should all make a minimum effort for consensus, for the sake of the average Greek family, for the sake of the vulnerable groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that they are attending our meeting from the top Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the Professional High School of Atalant Fthiotis (A' Department). The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, before we move on, I would like to add something about a colleague's question. It is obvious and self-evident from the ministerial decision that the whole CDES board operates without compensation, unpaid. If something is to be added to the second year of legislation, we will do so with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u226	What about the president and the vice president?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u227	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u228	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to begin by referring to the unacceptable statement made by the Minister for Energy, Mr Hatzidakis, who has been used to us in a moderation. Unfortunately, however, in this authoritarian deprivation that we have been experiencing in recent days, with the statements of government officials and the media attitude, Mr Hatzidakis came here, at the Step of the House, and described as "blacks" the students and students of the ASE, who have suffered the police repression, which we have all experienced in the past few days. In this way, we see that the government has a particular line, that it deceives students and students, who, as members of the academic community, also claim the right for an open university, the right to meet and to be able to hold gatherings and general assemblies. It also devaluates the country's public universities, and of course the Economic University, which is one of the highest in the Pan-European ranking. And the question, ladies and gentlemen, is why you are following this practice. It's obvious that it's an option, that it's a line. It is clear that at a time when you have found too many problems with regard to the management of the refugee, because of the ideas you have had over the past few years, it is obvious that at a time when you have had severe reactions, even from your fellow Members and from your local communities, where you are now reaping all that you had sown over the last time, intolerance, xenophobia, you are now coming and trying to change the agenda of the public debate and, at the same time, to demonstrate self-repression and self-determination. We, too, want to warn you from this step of the House. It's Polytechnic days and it's twice irresponsible and unacceptable for this policy and your tactics. You take full responsibility, when you create these phenomena of authoritarianism and repression, during this three-day day, which the student youth of our country, together with the Greek people, will honour peacefully and democratically the revolt of the Polytechnic. Now, Mr. Kikilia, with regard to the issues you raised about the CITES. The truth is that, in the rule of New Democracy, from July to today, words and meanings are now given another dimension. The ultimate state is now the control of the state and the depreciation of institutions, and indeed the abolition or alteration of institutions that are not controlled, as the New Democracy would like to see controlled. We have lived this the previous time with the Competition Committee, with the Public Administration Inspector, but also with the way in which the Commander of the EEA was appointed. And as far as good legislation is concerned, which so much you have told us since the first day, we are constantly seeing bills drawn from various provisions. In July you told us that it would be one and only. However, we also saw the development process following, and certainly hundreds of amendments and each one covering various other issues. But there are too many unconstitutional, democratic and political issues on the subject of the ERC. Let's start with the first one. On 30 September and while Parliament was open, we were here and had a debate - indeed we had the ratification of mining contracts - you chose to proceed with the integration of the regulations of the CEC that abolishes the self-employed. Minister, I don't think I'm saying anything funny. I'm talking about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u230	To me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u231	No, your chatter. I repeat, therefore, that you chose to proceed with an act of legislation when, in accordance with Rule 44(1) of the Constitution, this can only be done when the House is closed - where Parliament was open - or when there is an urgent reason for it to be imposed. And I ask: what was the urgency? First of all, answer that, Minister. You haven't answered us. Why did you choose it? Our reading? The urgent reason for this was, first of all, obviously to prevent Mrs. Xenis Dimitrios from being elected. The urgent reason for this was to surprise, to create a fait accompli and not to react. The urgent reason for this was to avoid the suffering of the parliamentary procedure and consultation. And you come and you do it after a period of two months, within a big bill, and when you've left the facts, the stuff. Let's move on. Why did all the governments of PASOK, the New Democracy, SYRIZA, cooperaters, honoured him, recognised him and supported him? We were not convinced of the arguments you said, because they are arguments, first of all, which you came to tell us in retrospectively, much later. You didn't tell us that in September. I shall also refer to the substance of the arguments. You told us later when you saw the fierce reactions, not only of the workers and the families, but of the scientists and a wider social response to this issue. We must now get to the point of the matter. Report the checks as an argument. You should know very well - and you yourself said - that the first check you mentioned about the Diabetes, on which you made this entire account to justify your decision, was a check, which the CTE itself, in the collective, which had self-control and proper operation, had the same move. It wasn't an audit that came from outside. Much more, it was a preliminary check. It wasn't complete. There was an initial finding, which was also confidential, which should then be completed and there were personal data and a number of things. You chose to make this confidential conclusion public, to rely on it and to make a record of scandalology, imprisonment and slander, so that, in other words, you could explain why you were coming after so many decades to change the status of the CEDEFOP and check it out. That's the first. As far as the famous audit of the General Accounting Office of the State is concerned - and here I would like to make a statement from Mr Bardanis as President of the Board of Directors of the Central Banks - was one of the usual regular audits carried out by the General Accounting Office of the State for a number of agencies. It was 2017. [[At this point, the Member, Maria - Eliza (Mariliza) Xinoyannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] As Mr Bardanis clearly says, the recommendations in which this check ended were either fulfilled or fulfilled. Of course, I should like to point out here - because we have to tell you everything, Minister - that in 2018 there was no comment from the General Accounting Office of the State. So go back to 2017 for a check that the recommendations have been fulfilled and you don't say about the follow-up. Of course, a number of other issues are also raised here. Through this change, which you are targeting at KETHES, do you really believe that you are coming to serve better all this great effort to combat dependency? You have chosen one redemption line, through management, as far as controls are concerned. But we heard your Deputy Minister, who said this amazing, that SYRIZA reacts - not society, not workers, not families, SYRIZA responds - because his ideological hegemony in the field of fighting against dependency is questioned. So here I raise two issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u232	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u233	Don't do that, Mr. Comrade. We have two issues to deal with. Explain what you mean. Either here you do not understand what an integrated policy on dependencies means, that is, a policy which involves not only repression, but a policy of prevention, information and clearly reintegration. You yourself said about the need to keep up with and renew the strategy. This is a debate. Come and say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u234	It doesn't change anything about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u235	Come on, tell the House, we can have a dialogue, we can talk. But you didn't do that. You are not here to discuss and say what the drugs strategy is, to deal with dependency, and then to make decisions. You have started by making decisions, by passing through and by devoting a body which has worked all this time with absolute common acceptance and very successful success. I am speaking here and here of the relevant statement by the workers who are really working with their souls on the issues of defiance and the whole effort. [[At this point, the Member, Maria - Eliza (Mariliza) Xinoyannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] In fact you are undermining a critical link in a whole chain that is necessary to work and you are also creating huge problems. So to return to the question of your State Secretary, whether you do not understand what an integrated policy means in practice or simply trying to find any objections to the opposition, even though you are now in the government, just to cover what I said at the outset, that is, your only concept was state control, the ‘local’, your own, as far as the way in which the CTE operates, is concerned, and you have found an easy press. Two words, Mr President, on two issues which I would also like to say in relation to the bill and other articles, because our rapporteur, Mr Papadopoulos, has done a very detailed analysis. I would like to say something about the protection of borrowers. The SYRIZA government brought Law 4605/2019, which had three objectives and three aims. It expanded, firstly, the possibility of involving borrowers for the protection of the first home, putting in place instruments and small and medium-sized enterprises which had guaranteed the first residence, extending the repayment of loans, of course, to the corresponding reduction in instalments and dealing with the crucial issue of the bank's red loans, with all that that means. We want two things. First of all, let us ask - and the Minister of Finance is here - that the platform should be extended for one year and your assurance, Mr Minister. In addition, with regard to the KINAL amendment, we would like to say that it is generally in a positive direction, and in particular the second paragraph of the amendment, we consider that it is in a positive direction and that the ministers should also take it into account. As far as the Greek is concerned, we expect to hear - Mr. Hadjidakis said some things - by Mr. Economou if the public spaces are actually attributed from Agios Kosmas to the Greek government. It's a critical thing. Let's hear you, Minister. And with regard to the other crucial issue for the tourist businesses you come - and rightly so - to support them through the legislative act and today with its ratification, we should simply point out that this support must be integrated and also mention the workers. In other words, in order to benefit from state support, these enterprises must be consistent with the employment and workers due. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u236	Mr Yoyakas, President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I The New Democracy, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a government is not only judged by how much its programme is doing, it is also judged by how quickly it reacts to unforeseen and urgent situations, to problems that need to be solved as soon as possible before other issues arise. This is also the aim of the legislative acts currently ratified by our Parliament. Some of these regulations, in fact, concern an insignificant portion of our citizens. It is to strengthen the protection of first homes for the weakest households. It is the extension of the debt arrangement to the municipalities. It is the dismantling of the PPC electricity auction, which has contributed almost to the collapse of PPC, the consequences of which would be felt directly or indirectly by all of us. Changes in the arrangement of debts of natural persons from housing and business loans to protect the main home facilitate categories of borrowers such as older, divorced couples or couples in a dimension, joint-owners with a related relationship. The changes, in fact, relate to new applications and to those that have been submitted, but they are still being processed. We expect the government to proceed quickly - as Mr Besiropoulos has said - to abolish the supporting documents required so that applications in space, which remains, can be made more quickly and more easily. The extension, granted to natural persons and businesses by 31 December 2019 to regulate their certified debts to municipalities, aims to have a double positive effect: to facilitate the financial planning of the debtors, but also to strengthen the funds of the municipalities. The PPC arrangement belongs to the emergency measures to stop the financial bleeding of the company. By selling power to competitors at below-cost prices, PPC has been damaged since 2016 from around EUR 600 million. We want the operation to stand on its feet again, not to be a burden for taxpayers and a time bomb for the country. That is why we are abolishing NOME auctions from now on, and we are abolishing the last auction the previous government had decided on mid-October, saving, from it, EUR 90 million. This to remember how irresponsible and ideologically abandoned the model of "little PPC", chosen by the government of Samaras in 2014. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of Parliament of a region living from tourism, I can only share the concern of the businessmen who have been severely hit by the 'the rule' of 'THOMAS COOK'. I believe that VAT and residence tax measures give a first signal to the government's will to support hotel accommodation. The representatives of the industry have tabled their proposals and I hope that you will use them, of course, as long as the financial margins of the economy allow. The additional tax facility and the strengthening of liquidity will, in essence, help at least the most affected of them to meet their obligations in the coming period. As a Member of Parliament, I would also like to focus on the organised location of aquaculture or aquaculture enterprises, as it is said, to include the rearing of other seafood. The deadline for those enterprises to enter organised zones, which is a kind of marine business park, where specific rules and environmental conditions apply, expired for the first time in November 2017. It was extended until November 2019 to get a new extension until 2021. I hope, Minister, that extension will not give an alibi for another delay. I know firsthand that the competent authorities do not have enough officials to run the studies. We therefore expect you to proceed with the measures you have announced, such as the recruitment of qualified external consultants, so that the Presidential Decrees for the Organised Development Areas of Aquaculture can be completed in time. Fortunately, the dossier for the regions of Thesprotia is on track. However, speeds need to be raised here too. I am closing down, ladies and gentlemen, with two brief comments on the act of legislative content for the JETD. Let us keep in mind that the appointment of the board of directors by the Minister of Health does not change the healing model of the units of the CDE. Self-government and self-management in the therapeutic and scientific work are not only maintained but also strengthened, given that additional substantial responsibilities are given to the General Assembly. This is mainly what concerns users of his services. Let us also keep this: The change in the model of administration must and may be the beginning of a comprehensive debate on the reform of the CECH. What has been said in the meetings of the committees by consensuals and dissidents leads to a minimum common finding. They point out that there is considerable room for change, that there is considerable room for improvement, because this government, ladies and gentlemen, seeks to take care of the current and urgent issues, but keeps an eye on the big picture, on the bigger and smaller changes that our country needs, in order to return to a final page. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, too. Mrs. Jufi from SYRIZA is now called to Stepma and Mr. Francis will follow. Here, Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with an initial statement condemning the authoritarian catastrophe of the Mitsotakis Government, about the events that took place at the University of Economics and the unnecessarily attack, with wood and chemicals, to students and students, who reacted to the Senate's incorrect decision on lock-out at their school, as if it were a private business and claiming their democratic right to an assembly within their school. The only thing they can do is trigger dangerous situations. This is clearly indicated by the decision of the National Technical University of Athens, which says that this type of interventions of repression within university spaces are causing enormous concern and saying that the Senate will defend - as it must - all its powers the Polytechnic community and the University asylum and calls for massive participation in the celebrations. We have the same from the Senate of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. On the contrary, we have made statements by leading officials of the New Democracy - who have also been members of the youth of Papadopoulos and leaders of this notorious ENP organisation - who say that the law is also needed to be enforced. This sends out the message for escalation and encouragement of police extremities. We consider, for whatever happens, the government, which dynamics the climate before the Polytechnic, at this very top moment of the student youth in our country, who want to forget, delete, revise, devour the student movement, but also the higher education institutions as centres of violence and lawlessness and refer to dark times, which youth and the left was the inner enemy. We will not follow them in that direction. The second issue, to which I wish to refer, is the ERCF. I would like to say that, in the same authoritarian way, it was decided, in one night, to abolish the self-employed person and to take over the administration of the CSTD by wages, as shown in the provision, officials - of course, the Minister said - without special knowledge in the sensitive area of dependency, with television laurels and an active presence in party registers. From this point on, how will there be self-government, since they will be appointed by the respective government, which will in this way control administrations and, in fact, brings about a strong blow to balances and negatively affect the work of the Centre, while expressing fears that this decision can also open the door to the establishment and functioning of private clinical defiance, with what this means to users and their families? Of course, in order for Greece to accept this, the classical way has started to leave the previous administration to be slandered. We are not, Minister, against control, which must be done. I would remind you, however, that the act of legislation was preceded by a month and a half before the last events of the limited complaints, which concern one of the hundred and ten structures which, in fact, revealed internal control with the active action of workers. Why are you changing the context of self-government with this urgency and you did not ask for a priori to what you said today - a study to see the circumstances - and to suggest - and you are choosing to break down with old materials and, in fact, an agency which, since 1983, has developed a large network of services which have made a significant contribution to the treatment and social inclusion of thousands of people dependent on substances and to support their families with very positive evaluations to international bodies and the United Nations. I will say more specific examples, such as the Epirus Cereals, which was created in 2007 as a request for institutions throughout the city, with an integrated network of therapeutic services, in which the vast majority of them come from the Ioannina Prefecture, but also from neighbouring laws and from the wider region. This is a comprehensive healing program, which, after ten years, includes consultative station, healing community, social reintegration, family program, family club and two hostels, one for reintegration and one for the healing community and actions for occasional users. Especially at this time when the CEFD is in a crisis, in my opinion, due to an extreme and arbitrary and not scientifically documented government decision, it is important to highlight the work, the role, the supply of bodies and to seek cooperation with the rest of the health system. The result of this synergy is also the multi-powerful management of the crisis of drug users and alcoholism which, after many years of revolt and abandonment of the effort, recently began its operation, thanks to the coordinated efforts of many such as the commander of the hospital, the board of directors, hospital services, local government, workers and doctors, but mainly thanks to the painful effort of the previous leadership at the "Hatzikosta" General Hospital of Ioannina. It is a modern innovative structure very critical, with innovative services. The way he has been set up is an excellent model, where he cooperates with two major public dependants, the JETHA and the OKANA, in a pioneering manner and is funded by the ESRB. I hope, Minister, that you will be able to see it closely, because you have not been able to come to the opening. We hope that, due to the importance of the structure, every effort will be made to then operate at state costs after the end of European funding. Society is against this decision. I can table many resolutions, many of the institutions of Epirus, which obviously do not belong to SYRIZA, the entire Regional Council of Epirus, the Municipal Council, the Senate of the University of Ioannina, which is giving this answer that my colleague was looking for. He says: "Why should it be unpaid to be the administration and why should the self-employed be needed?" Because that was the main therapeutic tool. It wasn't a communal invention. It was the reflection of the voluntary nature that this body has and the seal of relationships of trust and solidarity, which link everyone equally: the members, the healers and the healers. I mean, then, that the regulation you are insulting destroys a structure that is not bureaucratic, but is a living cell of action within society, with deep roots and with supply, not in numbers, but in human lives. It is therefore a political decision, which you should consider very seriously, because it leads to the depreciation of structures, which will enable people who have no accessibility to enjoy these services. Of course, it is an act that shrinks the social state to the detriment of all the citizens of our country. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I would like you to give me another minute, Mr President, to put it in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u240	It's impossible, Mrs. Jufi. Excuse me, but you're in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u241	Because there is an amendment tabled on special education matters that the Minister responsible has not presented, do you want me to be present now or then?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u242	Then please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u243	Good. Well, I'm ending up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, too. Mr. Frangidis has the floor from the Change Movement. Then the Minister of Finance will speak. Here, Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the government continues its bad law-making practices, despite its promises for a few months to the contrary. It brings Parliament and today a bill, which actually contains the ratification of three acts of legislation, without, of course, any urgent and urgent need, as laid down in the Constitution for the adoption of legislative acts. It brings a bill, that is, a rag again with twelve provisions of ministries in it. By Act of Legislative content, Article 2 abolishes the self-government of the KETHEA, an organization with an enormous contribution to rehabilitation and undivided assistance to Greek society and, above all, to vulnerable groups. Your intention is to control, unfortunately, this body as well. I wish I could be disproved and retained. The mismanagement of the finances of the CECH that you are invoking to control the board of directors and even, before you get the knowledge of the findings of the audit by the Committee of the CECH and the General Accounting Office of the State is a matter for justice to see. Today, it is mainly important to upgrade the operation of the CECE to continue its social contribution to the Greek society. The Change Movement has proposed that the current seven-member administration, which you have appointed and then become eleven-member, as it used to be, should be transformed into a genuine dialogue for a new model of administration with the participation of employees, the healed and their families and, of course, two scientists from the medical and legal area. At the same time, checks should be carried out for the financial management of the CDEH. The Governing Council should guarantee transparency and public control. All this needs to be discussed in depth with the participation of all the political forces. With regard to the provisions you bring about 'THOMAS COOK', the measures announced following the collapse of the travel agency are validated. It is right and we agree on the need for them to be taken. After all, we were the first to raise the issue in its wake, including publicity, but also in Parliament by tabling a timely question, a simple question and an amendment that you have adopted, but not all of it. Unfortunately, however, it has taken a month and a half to legislate, but it does not tackle the huge problem that has arisen for businesses and workers. There is a risk of transmission of toxicity to the wider market as a result of failure to serve the obligations. We're talking about unresolved checks, supplies to third parties and other things. During the hearing, and during the meetings of the committees, we heard the Director of the Greek Chamber of Hotel saying that the total damage to the accommodation of the country by the demands of "THOMAS COOK" was about 315,000 euros. While the following year, damages are estimated to reach about 1.5 billion. If, here, we take into account the tourist multiplier, we are talking about a damage that will touch or exceed 2,000,000 euros At the same time, other countries that compete with us as tourist destinations take brave measures to support their tourism. Spain, for example, has announced a package of 700m euros to support businesses and modernise the country's tourist infrastructure, providing for measures to attract new airlines, tourist promotion, legal defence of the interests of the state and of the affected companies. Mr President, the measures you take are limited and inadequate. The exemption from the obligation to pay the residence tax is addressed to the customers of the ‘THOMAS COOK’ and not to hotels, which have not received any of these customers. You are suspending the payment of VAT for six months, i.e. up to 30-3-2020, but limiting this measure to those companies, which accounted for 25% of their turnover from transactions with "THOMAS COOK". What will happen after six months, if a cash difficulty is identified in the companies, due to failure to collect the amounts due? Should they pay VAT for non-recovery? For invoices unresolved? And in relation to the payment of the income tax on Thomas Cook's unreasonable claims, we are again talking about money that will not be collected. How is it possible to pay an income tax that has not been acquired? It is therefore necessary to provide a stimulus for the firms which have been financially affected and to give them a breath of relief by providing loans on favourable terms. You could also consider the contribution and debt freeze to the insurance funds, the public and the banks. This is the country's heavy industry for tourism, and we must all help. As far as the measures that you are taking for workers and businesses are concerned, we agree, but you have still not adopted the whole amendment. We have proposed that the payment of the unemployment subsidy be extended by one month to all seasonal workers, because problems such as who are the workers concerned, and how this will be reflected in the unemployment benefit system. Finally, in order to protect the first residence, the conditions laid down for a debtor to be subject to the applicable procedure are so many and so strict and the conditions normally unattractive that make it inappropriate. The amendments proposed improve the process technically, but do not address the problem. The Change Movement tabled such an amendment, which is a golden incision between the law - earlier than the PASOK - called the "Katsel Law" and Article 76 of Law 4605/19, with the aim of the maximum benefit of the debtor, but also of ensuring the consent of the banks. And it would certainly be useful to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, too. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Stavros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to say that you said that there is no emergency need for what we are debating today. But the contents of most of the provisions are urgent, which you have developed thoroughly. The 'THOMAS COOK'. You said we legislate a month later. We have legislation immediately, in cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism. Today we are voting on the legislative act. Since then, the act has been in force. You also said that other countries have taken more initiatives. I want to tell you, because I am in contact and contact with my counterpart Spanish Finance Minister that only Greece took tax measures. We now go to the essence of my position on practically specific provisions for the protection of first residence and for the heating allowance. A proclaimed objective of the Government and the Ministry of Finance is to address the high private debt, which has increased in recent years, but at the same time to protect the most vulnerable households affected by the crisis. In this respect, in the last four months, we have taken systematic and coordinated action in order to improve the legislative framework for the protection of first residence, a framework adopted by the previous government. In particular, the joint ministerial decision abolishing the burden certificate was signed on 29 August, which was an obstacle to the submission of applications by the citizens. Unfortunately, however, despite the improvement, due to many weaknesses, which existed in the legislative framework and were highlighted by fellow Members from all parties and from all sides, I have just heard KINAL's dear colleague pointing out some of them, the problems remain. The process is not progressing at the pace we want, despite the small improvements. By the end of the last week, only sixty-six proposals have been put forward by the banks, together with thirty-one thousand two hundred seventeen users, who had started a procedure for preparing the application and I will submit to the Minutes a week how the first home protection programme, since July, has been in operation, so that all my fellow Members will have a full picture. Significant improvement, but we're not where we want to be. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have therefore examined the problems and we are taking additional action. We have identified the weaknesses of the institutional framework in practice, and we are now legislating a series of improvements. The improvements we recommend in the House are the result, not only of our own indications of how the law is implemented, but of what the citizens themselves have submitted, the users of the electronic platform. It is certainly a good thing that the state is a good channel to society. Hear the problems and take initiatives to address them. The purpose of the improvements to the draft law is to further facilitate the debtors so that more beneficiaries can become part of the protectionist provisions of the law. The changes concern, in both new applications that will be submitted and applications that have already been submitted, but have not yet been completed. In more detail, the draft law, firstly, is now allowed to apply in order to protect their first residence and those who reside in a rented or licensed property outside the regional unit in which their main residence is situated. It's mostly about those who live in another town. In other words, those who have been transferred because of their work, such as police officers, military officers, porters, firefighters, customs, doctors, nurses, teachers, teachers. Second change. In cases where there are more than one owner, the possibility of protecting the entire residence at the request of only one joint owner is given. It concerns, for example, relatives whose members involved are abroad and who are unable to join the platform, heirs who have not accepted the inheritance of the deceased, divorced couples who do not communicate with each other and other relevant cases. Third initiative. It shall be facilitated to submit applications in cases of debtors who are proven to be in a dimension in order not to require the signature of the application by the other member in a measure, especially in cases where there is no contact between the members. Fourth point. Provision is made for a provision to qualify for the State subsidy for all the joint owners who are applying for the protection of the first residence. This broadens the protection field, in cases where a loan involves more than one person as contenders. Fifthly, the possibility of involving a lesser guarantor in cases of elderly debtors who have so far been unable to benefit from a twenty-five-year-old dose adjustment. Thus, if a debtor is seventy years old, it would have been regulated for a decade, since under the European Banking Directives, no more than eighty years will be provided. A new guarantor, younger, can now join, so that together they receive payment in twenty-five years, which is the maximum depth provided by the law. Sixth change. Debtholders, who have received a housing loan from credit institutions, are given the opportunity to regulate their debts and protect their first residence through the online platform. Likewise, they can regulate their loans, purchased or awarded to acquisition and management companies, i.e. funds and services. Seventh change. If an application needs to be re-introduced due to deficiencies or errors, the protection of the first residence in space, which shall be maintained until re-introduced, shall be maintained. This facilitates the debtors who came to the platform, but have made negligent mistakes. Eighth change. If citizens wish to entrust a specialised lawyer with the preparation of their application, they can now do so by financing the remuneration of the lawyer from the bank, which has the first mortgage on his principal residence. Ninth change. It is also noted that according to Law 4605/2019, once the procedure for regulating the housing loan has been completed through the electronic platform, the citizen may then apply to the court for the purpose of regulating his other debts, if it is, for example, without a mortgage in the first place, due to public and insurance funds, debts to an EKO and everything else. These are in the draft law, in order to facilitate integration. But it doesn't stop here alone. I have already heard colleagues, as Mr Yoyakas recently said: 'Let the supporting documents be lifted'. Indeed, we have today promoted the last joint ministerial decision aimed at abolishing the necessary compulsory documents so that the process can be made easier and faster for the citizens. The application shall be submitted electronically, without requiring the presentation of any supporting documents. No supporting documents, no bureaucracy, no administrative procedures for the citizen and above all no additional exits for the citizen's involvement in the law process. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as far as this unity is concerned, the government is ready, in consultation with the institutions, to take additional initiatives in good time to facilitate citizens - excluding strategic poor payers - to deal with the private debt that has been accumulated mainly in recent years. We are well aware that this is a major challenge. We know that we have to manage a real situation, which affects citizens' lives qualitatively. We are here, however, to deal with the problems, with efficiency and realism, with a step-by-step approach, without delusion. In this context, I would like to add something more. By way of a ministerial amendment we have tabled to the House, the previous government's limit on the heating allowance is abolished. The previous government had set a limit. It was 58 million euros. It was passed in May 2017 and this roof is valid from 1-1-2018. With the abolition of the total expenditure ceiling, the New Democracy Government's commitment to the increased grant of the heating allowance is estimated at 68 million this year. The electronic platform could not be opened because there was the roof of the SYRIZA law for 58 million. Now with the 68 million, and even in 2019, not 2020, the electronic platform will be opened in the next few days. It is recalled that the entire winter season allowance will be granted in advance to all beneficiaries before the end of this year. The allowance will be significantly increased, as a result of the additional financial space created in recent months and which has been directed solely at society as a whole, especially in the lower income layers. And some basic differences. A grant of EUR 0.16 per litre of heating oil was granted last year and there were certain consumption limits based on its squares and geographical area. This has led to either subsidisation of only a small part of the costs paid by the beneficiary or by households who have not been able to consume the maximum allowable ultimately to receive a very small subsidy, much less that they were entitled to. This year, in order for the beneficiary to receive that allowance, it is sufficient for him to purchase heating oil at a value equal to or greater than twice the abovementioned allowance. Thus, the subsidy is increased to 50% of the relevant costs paid by the beneficiary for purchases up to that level. In this way households who are unable to consume large quantities will receive a much higher allowance. In addition, in contrast to the SYRIZA forecast, there is a 10% increase in the allowance for each dependent child, in order to make the social benefit even more fair, taking into account the real data from households. Also, in contrast to the previous government's forecast for the first time this year - it was this request by most fellow Members of Parliament from all the wings of the province - the mountain municipalities of the First Zone, treated as plains, will receive an additional allowance up to now. Finally, contrary to what was foreseen by the previous SYRIZA government, listening to the concerns of fellow parliamentarians mainly in the province, mountain communities belonging to municipalities, which have not been classified as mountainous, will receive a higher allowance of 20%, as foreseen for mountain municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, the improvement of the framework for the protection of first residence, which was the first unity of my position, and the strengthening and forward utilization of the heating allowance, demonstrate that the current government, the Government of the Republic and the staff of the entire household operate in terms of economic efficiency and social justice, with a guide to the interests of the country and all its citizens, particularly the middle and lower incomes of society. Our effort continues. It continues methodically and decisively and results. It brings tangible results for the Greek society. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that the amendment under a general number 87 special 17 is accepted by the parliamentary amendments. The Greek will be spoken by the State Secretary responsible then. I am also tabling two legislative improvements on specific issues, not of the Ministry of Finance, but of the relevant ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two teachers attending from Atalantis Business General High School (B' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Maria Athanasios from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a week of continuous meetings in the committees we are here today on the ratification of acts of the government by various ministries. For the majority of these acts, I would not object, and I believe that they are in the right direction, although individual issues could on this occasion be even better and lead to more effective and lasting results. Therapies we need no aspirins. Measures for those affected by the bankruptcy of 'THOMAS COOK' are certainly a first positive response from the government, but we should continue to monitor the consequences of this bankruptcy in order to prevent other problems in the future, but also to ensure the efficiency of the measures that we are already voting on as a Greek solution. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, this bankruptcy affects the entire supply and working chain of tourist businesses. And we should bear in mind and, in particular, you, Mr Ministers, that we do not have the potential to abuse tourist businesses today, but also the exploitation of the rest of the involved, for example, tourist workers and suppliers, who are allegedly invoking bankruptcy. In short, if the hotel owners don't start telling us they found bankruptcy, I'm not paying you. Then, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you recognise and agree on this by paying overtime to ELSTAT's workers so that an injustice can be lifted as it appears. In the same sense, however, another injustice can be lifted, Minister, that of the non-compliance of the administrations of the ERC hospitals with the 431/20189 final decision of the Council of State in favour of the doctors of the ERC which has imposed on them since February 2018 the reintroduction of remuneration at 2012 levels and, on the basis of which the new salary is applied, the reason why the hospital administrations so far refuse to comply is incomprehensible is incomprehensible. Shouldn't you take care of this? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer in particular to the question of ERCF. From all the meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs and from the discussions which have taken place both between Members and the Government and from the hearings of the relevant bodies, many conclusions have been drawn and interesting conclusions have been drawn. The government denounces scandals, the opposition and especially the SYRIZA defends the situation as if the self-evident wants defenders wherever they come from. We heard the former president of the Board of Directors. The CEDEFOP defends their things and speaks of the close link between administration and employees and the healing community, as a family, say. The employees talked about the success of their work while the "Prometheus" patients became the internal differences within the CEFDs. And the seropositives protest and say they are second-speed beneficiaries and talkers even within the walls. We know that the situation is not an angelically framed one but, above all, it has emerged that we have not a great problem of perception of the problems and their solution, but a difficult problem of managing power that each one of us is experiencing. Personally, as I said to the committee, I welcome the initiative to control and report and propose that it be extended to the budget, supplies and awards as well. However, Minister of Health, the essential problem of the CECH is not his own self-government, but it may be his own self-government perception of his own self-government and his own managers. Because another self-employed and another state in the state. Since the beginning of the 1980s, the KETHI and its offer have not been the property of anyone's chips and chips. It doesn't belong to his administration no matter how good it is. It does not belong to its employees no matter how practicable they are. It does not belong to the therapists, the servants and their families either. It does not even belong to the Greek state. It belongs to all of us, the Greek people and the Greek state. The Greek people are taxed to have money and to function and to develop the healing programs for the benefit of our fellow people and the Greek state is ensuring that this is done properly, legally and morally. The government has given us findings with findings of economic irregularities at the JITHA, as well as reports of unethical and illegal worker behaviors and others. In this respect, and with what he refers to, he is, by instrument of legislation, overturning the administrative regime so far. The regime in which it is located so far is protesting and talking about abolishing the self-employed as if they were only cut off on the theory of the matter. The sinner first put the stone in. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I say yes to the self-employed, but not to the ruthlessness of the intentions and everyday life of the CEDEFOP. I say yes to supervision and control, but not to the commission and manipulation of the ERCF. Minister, your findings must go without delay to the prosecutor and you must also examine all the certificates of users issued and used. You must also ensure continuity of the planning and action programmes in order not to give rise to concern among people who are serving. And most importantly, you must not convert the CDEO into an AEKO by administrations of days. The next period with your appointed administration should be a transitional period which will bring us to a more honest and secure administrative model of today and the future, and perhaps that is why you should, from the outset, allow the general meeting of the CDEC to be represented more effectively in the new management board. I do not give my administrative vote to the Ministry or to those who are complaining. That is because I know that no one is right or wrong. I believe that a solution is the regular coexistence of the State's upgraded presence in the administration of the organisation with the proven success of the self-residential initiatives. And if they want to, we'll make it. Ladies and gentlemen, the shape of cooperation and synergy must be found in order to maintain and develop conquests and therapeutic results, as well as to protect them from ambitious, ambitious and professional philanthropists and honourers of social action and compassion. It takes a shape of an effective working group. As a group, however, not as a family, because families, ladies and gentlemen, hide secrets. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Logiadis has the floor since May 25, followed by Mr. Maravegias.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not only speak as a member of Mera 25 from Heraklion Crete, I am also a hotelier. I know 'THOMAS COOK' and since 2012 we knew it was a company that was in a very difficult situation. We personally interrupted our cooperation in 2012. But let's go to today's subject. It's the ratification of three different things. The same bill contains three different articles with different contents, regulations, unrelated to each other. It is a sign of bad and rough legislation which, however, contains some strange objectives, in our view. All urgent or urgent, all under pressure of time without proper consultation and without giving substantial solutions. The government's plan to tackle the catastrophe from the collapse of the 'Thomas COOK' is, rather than material measures. Getting the hotels out of the residence tax is like we want to save someone with a hammer that has eaten a bullet in the head. Tourism has been subjected to a huge blow throughout Crete, throughout Greece and the Mediterranean, but I am talking about Crete and Greece. Huge amounts have not been paid and will never be paid. So the exemption from the residence tax is a measure that does not give a solution. It's a mockery and a mockery. And to put it on the right basis the residence tax is not collected by the tour operator, the "THOMAS COOK" in this case, and is attributed to the hotels, but collected from the hotels with the arrival of the hotel. On the other topic of VAT relating to tariffs for "THOMAS COOK" here as a hotelier, as an investor, as a Greek investor, reading that this payment of VAT is suspended until 31 March I wonder what it means to be suspended. He won't be paid by then? From there on, what's going to happen? This wording for me is handy. After 31 March will the VAT be paid or will it not be paid? It is a VAT that will never be collected from any hotel and it is not just VAT that will never be collected. No other amounts will be collected, services that hotels offered to customers in July, August and September, are the high season at very high prices. Now we're going to the third for the workers. The regulation is in the right direction, but it is too little for these people. This hole in hotel owners and generally in the system is very large and with the multiplier it has will exacerbate the situation even more. I fear that it will pass on, if we do not take immediate measures and in fact, to strengthen hotel owners, workers and all those around tourism. Our proposals are to give businesses which have suffered equal loans of ten years with 1% interest so that companies can pay the wages of all employees, their suppliers, their employees, their loans, their contributions, whatever business. The bankruptcy of "THOMAS COOK" has in a huge way highlighted the pathogens of our state. Tourism, our heavy industry knew nothing about this, we are not prepared, we have done nothing, because we are really walking without knowledge, and that is why we do not have a university of tourism in Greece. Each hotel owner alone cannot demand and ask the tour operators to be paid with the arrival of the client at the hotel, as it used to be, but also with the internet customers as they are today. There must be a regulation. In committee I have proposed to the Minister of Tourism, Mr Theochras, that the state should regulate this by law, so that the economic dependence of the tour operators and the risks that exist both for businesses and for the entire social system is greatly reduced. Another huge issue in tourism is the lack of air connections. The collapse of the 'THOMAS COOK', Greece's air link with the markets in Central and Northern Europe, is something we can see from the point of view of the collapse of the 'THOMAS COOK'. Cyprus was not so much dependent on "THOMAS COOK". It has managed to cooperate with low-cost companies, low cost flights, so that it does not depend so much on mass tour operators, mass tourism. With regard to tourism, the Italians, the Italians, have found ways of highlighting their product and culture and having mass tourism but with a specific orientation. We didn't make it very good here, so we need to get into a new philosophy. This is a solution that I see nowhere from any government. I should like to refer now to the CEDEFOP, because I know about Heraklion CEDEFOP, for which I have great appreciation. The Center for Extended Persons is doing a very important social work. Your bill directly questions the self-government nature and function, the recruitment, the decommissioning and the social reintegration of these people. This bill creates an asymmetric war, a war of impressions against the CEDEFOP and its self-government. The consultation that took place on the CEFD limited to the minimum time a documented dialogue that could take place on issues relating to an extremely vulnerable group of our fellow people in need of support for our society. The KETHA is its employees, the families of the supporters, the board of directors, it is the municipality, it is the region. Personally, I think the C.E.E.L.D. must remain self-sufficient. This is what Merra25 says, that the CECE's self-government must exist with a plan, with vision, with transparency, effective and practicable. So more decentralisation and not centralisation and a final state, as from the beginning of this parliamentary term, we see that you are doing, not the ultimate aim of privatising which, obviously, you have business as a usual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u252	Thank you. Mr. Maravegias from New Democracy will take the floor and then Mr. Digalakis will speak for five minutes from the Ministry of Education and then Mr. Bukoros. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin, if you will allow me, Mr Ministers, one of the latest articles added to the bill concerning the pricing of the medicinal product. Speaking in my medical capacity, I must point out the importance of this amendment by the Minister for Health, Mr Kikilia, not only for health finances, but also for the political debate of all these days. I am referring, of course, to the case 'NOVARTIS' and to SYRIZA's theory of allegedly scandalous management of pharmaceutical expenditure by New Democracy, a theory which, of course, has never been proven because it is simply not the case and it is not because it was a false construction, for which high-ranking factors of justice have presented evidence and evidence that it is a construction. It was a structured investigation, built in the dark undergrounds of Koumoundouros and its companions, in order to muddle the whole New Democracy party. Finally, you have not succeeded and the New Democracy is in the government today and you in the Opposition. Perhaps, then, after a celebration you can give your own officials a little right, saying that the only way to consolidate the SYRIZA regime is to send your political opponents to prison. This, unfortunately, has not happened to you and today you are calling on to prove why you have invoked such slander. But let us come over and discuss the important things and what is of interest to the Greek people is the cheap medicine. We are here to support the initiative of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to make cheaper and more transparent and simpler invoicing of the medicinal products of the Greek people. Electionally, SYRIZA prepared a price report with large increases in the prices of many popular medicines, increases for more than one in three medicinal products that would affect all and would be unfair. Today the new Minister for Health with his amendment consolidates the pricing of medicinal products on the basis of the average of the two lowest prices of the euro area Member States and states that successive price increases will not be allowed. At the same time, the regulations of the Ministry of Health provide for reductions in prices of up to 7% of the original medicinal products that are re-evaluated by a new price sheet with a lower limit on the average of the two lower prices of the euro area Member States. Respectively, generic values, which are set at 65% of the value of the respective reference product, are also formed. Thus, insured persons will see the next three quarter reductions in their market price of such medicines. This is what the Greek society is asking for, and this is what the Mitsotakis government brings, a government with the many, a party such as the New Democracy, which took the lead in 2012-2014 in reducing pharmaceutical expenditure against billions of euros and today continues this enormous effort for the benefit of the entire Greek society. Mr President, it is also a truly separate part of the bill that improves the protection of the main residence for the purpose of facilitating debtors so that most of the beneficiaries can become part of the protectionist regulations of the law. I am pleased that these changes concern both new applications and applications that have already been submitted, but they have not been processed. Solutions shall be made to enable them to apply for protection of their first residence and those who reside in a leased or licensed property outside the area where their principal residence is situated. It is a socially just measure, particularly those who have to live in another city because of their work. It is also extremely good that only one of the co-owners may be granted the possibility of protecting the dwelling on a request and that all the joint-owners who are applying for the protection of their main residence will no longer be entitled to any State subsidy. Finally, it is very important that debtors with a housing loan should be able to regulate their debts while protecting their main residence via a platform. These are the key interventions by the New Democracy in its own self-evident logic. This is enough to say that this bill also expresses the Prime Minister's philosophy of applying self-evident and common sense, apart from strange ideas and unfair dependences. It is another bill that continues the good tradition of all legislative initiatives taken so far by the new government. Ladies and gentlemen, having mentioned everything that is particularly successful by the relevant ministers, I would like to close up with two proposals to them for what can be done. I am referring to an important measure for Magnesia, my particular region, as well as for many other regions of our country, where, unfortunately, there is still no tariff today. The draft law before us provides - and rightly so - for the extension of deadlines for the submission of objections in order to reach more reliable and definitive forest maps. The Ministry of the Environment and the competent decentralised agencies obviously want to have forest maps describing a situation similar to reality. Because, we all know that when what we write on the paper is not related to what is really the case, then events always prevail. In this respect, at the initiative of the Ministry of the Environment, there is a very useful extension to both domestic and foreign residents, to submit their objections concerning, among others, the prefectures and uploads of forest maps of Magnesia, covering areas such as Nea Ancholos, Volos, Skiathos and Alonissos. There are other areas, however, Minister, such as an area on the outskirts of Volos, Paliouri, which, in the past, was found to be involved in an administrative absurdity. Agricultural land for which SYRIZA did not show a special interest in 2017 and which left them to be characterized as forest land, and never existed. I hope that you will see the whole issue of these fantasy areas again, which I put to you through parliamentary control last September, with a reference. In our islands there is a similar problem, where landowners find it difficult and will not even allow there the creation of a reliable and truly non-final tariff. So we are also waiting for a legislative initiative that will be in everyone's interest and will lead not only to a safe application of the law, but above all to a fair solution for those areas that really should not be called into question. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your understanding, Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u254	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u255	This, of course, applies to Magnesia, but also to the entire country. In conclusion, I will refer for just a minute to the CEDEFOP case, by handing the words of its founder to him, as he gave them to us in his memorandum to the committee responsible. It says, therefore, that “those who know the things of the CSCE know very well that in practice the CSCE. is formally elected only by the general meeting of the entity.’ And it goes on to say: 'I would briefly mention that the problem is so great when the organization and the general assemblies became a figurine and a paradox of democracy, rather than substantial control'. It also speaks of immunity from the leading team and intoxication of power. It also proposes something more drastic, the breaking of the CTETHE and the creation of a loose confederation between smaller structures like the CTETHE. It is obvious that in the end it disagrees with the Ministry for emotional reasons rather than substance. That's the political difference. The founder of the CEDEFOP is not a politician. But the politician must not draw from his emotions. So since the "father" of the JITH has such an opinion about his "child", you continue to annoy the act of legislation of the Ministry of Health, rather than fall into consideration for the fact that you are raising the various reactions involved. It's not the first time you've ever done it, and unfortunately, it's not the last one either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u256	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Dygalakis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, has the floor for five minutes on the legislative act concerning his Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. Before I refer to the provisions, however, I would like to comment on what has been said by the rapporteur for the Staff Regulations. We want universities in which there will be genuinely free movement of ideas and they will not be oppressed by some strong minorities. We want universities in which the academic community will move into its homes and will not be a refuge for outside universities and for anarchists. We want universities to which teaching, the cultivation of knowledge, research will be promoted. We want universities, which will be extrovert and self-sufficient. And make sure that's what Greek society wants. Now on the amendment to the inclusion sections. A year of looseliness is set in the way they calculate the number of teachers and by specialisation they teach in the accession departments. In other words, while there was a minimum number of pupils in the existing institutional framework to operate a part of the integration process, there was no maximum number to place a second teacher, with either the arbitrary placement or the integration departments with a very large number of pupils. A characteristic case, a large municipal school with fifty - eight diagnoses called for by an instructor IP70 to meet all needs, which is obviously impossible. In the secondary sector there was also a chaotic situation, as reflected in the'myschool', and now clearly defines which specialities and under which conditions they are placed in the accession departments. Secondly, the provision clearly defines the number of organic posts in each school unit that has an integration unit, which was also blurred in previous years. Thirdly, it allows for transfers or secondments to the places created and increases the mobility of teachers in order to be close to their place, particularly in secondary education. For the first time, then, organic positions are being established in the accession departments. Fourthly, it solves the problem of appointments to special treatment, which is soon to come about, as a significant number of organic posts are created. Fifthly, it does smoothly and fully compatible with reality and the existing framework, how to declare vacant posts in the accession departments, which has previously been a problem. Order for the apprenticeship classes: For the proper functioning of the apprenticeship classes in conjunction with the practical part of the apprenticeship, the starting period had to be extended within the month of November. The extension extends the time for the award of apprenticeship contracts by educational structures with public sector bodies. Provision for the State Language Certificate: We have ensured in the Ministry of Education's regular budget funding for the examinations of the State Language Certificate and the provision facilitated the preparation and conduct of the examinations of the November 2019 period. It is obviously urgent because of the forthcoming organisation of the tests in November. Order for the Department of Technology, Fisheries, Aquaculture, Annex Mundania of the former Alexandreio TEI of Thessaloniki. This regulation deals with the urgent question of the students of the former Department of Technology, Fisheries, Aquaculture, the former Alexandria TEI. With Presidential Decree 82/2013, this department was merged with other departments in a corresponding department of the Western Greece TEI, based in Messolong. The transitional provisions of the previous Presidential Decree provided for the continuation of the operation of this section until 31 October 2018, when it was repealed. After his abolition, the presidential decree provided that the students would be included automatically, with an act of the President of the Western Greece TEI, who would welcome the students to the TEI of Western Greece, based in Mesolong. But that never happened. The president of the Western Greece TEI has never issued this accreditation act. Then the Western Greek TEI with Law 4610/2019 was abolished and absorbed by the University of Patras, and what we had as a result was that four hundred seventy-five students were found in the air, in the vacuum and are not registered at any school. With this regulation, we are obviously proposing this in order to join the Department of the University of Patras. Finally, the latter provision concerns the representation of the meeting of the Presidents of the TEIs. After all the TEIs have been abolished, in many institutions provided for the meeting of the Chairmans of the TEIs, this should be regulated. It is therefore urgent, since these days we are also going to proceed with the exceptional transcriptions, which require the participation of representatives of the Presidents of the TEI, and this is replaced by a representative of the Assembly of Presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u258	Mr Christos Bukouros from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing the last days of a socially sensitive trade from the point of view of Officer Response. We have just seen here at the Step of the House two ministers of government, in particular the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health, announcing two measures, which are serious and widespread indicators of social sensitivity. More specifically, the Minister for Finance has announced the new way in which the heating allowance is paid which now concerns many more regions, many more people and more money, of course. The previous government had literally narrowed the heating allowance, while constantly indulging in a social sensitivity trade in favour of vulnerable, in favour of the poor and all the SYRIZA flagged. So the current heating allowance, ahead of winter, has nothing to do with the SYRIZA Government heating allowance. It is an increase of 10 million and of course also of the population of mountainous regions. The seats of the municipalities to which they belong did not have this designation, thus excluding them in the Greek region where mountainous volumes are many and the less-favoured areas are even more important, it is important, it is a breath. Others, therefore, are socially sensitive in words and others in deeds, in works. Also, the Minister of Health's amendment to reduce drug prices to up to 7%, while the pre-determined policy of the previous government led to an increase in drug prices of up to 10% is also a fact that can lead to safe conclusions on social sensitivity. Because we must finally stop in Greece being what we say! So we do not give social sensitivity to any SYRIZA and any other party. The decisions by the government, the laws and the whole of government's policy are proof of who is socially sensitive, ladies and gentlemen! But this trade of social sensitivity from the point of view of Officerial Response also continues for the C.E.L.D. of today's bill. Before we go there, however, I cannot fail to take note of the agonizing effort of SYRIZA Members, on the occasion of the events in ASSOE, to eradicate the passions of youth in view of the natural day-to-day anniversary and to exploit once again any events, speaking of authoritarianism, as if they were generalised situations. This is a distortion of reality, which SYRIZA systematically continues to choose as practice. You have abandoned, you see, the narrative of "NOVARTIS" because it doesn't work, as it is time for Mr. Fruzzis to speak. And from what is leaking from the committee into another Chamber of Parliament, from the Pre-Audit, you are probably due to some explanations to the Greek people. You must explain how you, the persecutors of organised interests and pharmaceutical companies, have led extra-urban spending to a huge height on your day and, in any case, to a very significant increase in relation to the previous years, while the Georgian bill had shrinked it. You have to explain how the turnover of NOVARTIS increased 100 million euros annually as Mr. Fruzzis says in the Pre-review and especially to explain the many meetings of the SYRIZA leadership with Mr. Fruzzis. He says in the pre-examination today about meetings with Mr. Tsipras, with the former Deputy Prime Minister - not to mention names - with the former Minister of Health, with the top SYRIZA officials, Mr. Fruzis. And I do not imagine that a man who is now in the microscope of justice, media, political forces in the country would throw names and numbers in the air. It seems to me that the account, my dear Mr Papadopoulos, does not come out of you, because I have not heard any comments since the morning and I see that you leave the account and bring other narratives "law and order, repression, violence and all of that". It's all right! And the ones with the return to normality, you'll abandon them. Reality will force you to abandon your new narratives. Let's come to today's C.E.T.E.L.D. bill. I have heard a series of SYRIZA MPs destroying, claiming that the self-defence of the ERC will be abolished, that it is a disaster for the ERCF, to slander the Ministry's views, to speak of the programs that do not change, to talk about the general assembly that does not change, to talk about how it does not change. And you are standing on an administrative board with a purely supervisory nature. Why would it be of a supervisory character? Firstly, why the public, the Greek state, is financing and even this year, is increasing funding for the CECH and secondly, in order to eliminate any blurred point, every grey island like those that brought to the surface, both the internal control of the CECH and the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. But is it a question of a party that defines itself as a progressive 'why do you change the definition of the board' forty years? Because we want each euro of the Greek citizen in these important and effective programmes, in their overwhelming majority, to exploit the best possible way and, above all, to have a supervisory body to testify where the Greek taxpayer's money is going! Is there a simpler answer than that? I would understand your objections if they were to change - for example - the dry programmes. Those who have been involved with the KETHA - and I have the honour in the past in another capacity also to sign for the expansion of the structures of the KETHA, which in fact operates in a modern, modern and innovative way - know that their work by society is acceptable and accepted by both the Ministry and the Government. And what he's doing, ensures the smooth operation by putting in a board that's unpaid. The Minister came here, said the administrative board would be unpaid and if necessary some sort of legislative improvement in some phrase would be done. Yet the SYRIZA colleagues, my dear Mr Papadopoulos - not you - continued to say that the board of directors would be unpaid, asking for clarification and so on. That, if you want, is a small proof that we are trying to make a total distortion of this policy. I didn't hear from any Minister that dry programmes are changing. I have not heard from any Minister that the role of the general assembly is diminished. I have not heard from any Minister of Health that the funding of the CTE will be paid. On the contrary, I heard it would grow. Where, then, can these - let me describe them - arbitrary conclusions that arm the arsenal of your arguments, which are not based on facts? You are really blaming the government for an attempt to control the CEDEFOP, but I am going to reverse the accusation by saying that since the government decided to change, immediately through an organized effort, there has been an uprising that in principle all of us have been terrified. Faces and media for SYRIZA took the lead in this uproar! Is it because people who are attending the SYRIZA lose control, are these reactions caused - to reverse the question? In any case, we would say that the JRC will also be extended to projects because the funding is being increased and nothing is missing from its administrative autonomy and from the implementation of the programmes that have actually been implemented. But what do you really want, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Cases like those of prisons in Diavata Thessaloniki and other centres or programmes of northern Greece? The state should not have a supervisory role? Can't put a brake on? Let them spread into other structures? So let the trade in social sensitivity cease on this subject and the Ministry for its options will be judged on the results. After all, you are aware of the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives of the parties - if I am not mistaken, the Minister has informed you - that we are also going to have a start to place, which will see the development of the programmes and present a conclusion to the Ministry and Parliament on the new way in which the CEEC operates, which in fact, the important ones, does not change anything. And I say it for the third time, so that my compatriots, members of the CDEH, Volos and the administration and people who make use of the programs, can hear it, that nothing changes in the organisation's programs and management at all. It is simply a supervisory body, as the state has to do. From there on, about the rest of the bill, many colleagues have spoken, but I cannot say a word about the current auctions known as NOMEs. SYRIZA, when he came to the government, rejected the choice made by the Samara government for the small PPC. Two years later, he went to power auctions, giving out of a seated PPC 600 million to its competitors. That's not a small amount. Does SYRIZA not feel the need to explain how and why it led to this choice and to the loss of so many serious financial resources from the largest company of the Greek state which literally kneeled and whether the artificial breaths from the new government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and from Kostas Hatzidakis, the Minister of the Environment, perhaps now that PPC had collapsed? Does the previous government feel any need to apologise? He left PPC with damage, completely humiliated, completely seated, made such choices as NOMEs, and you don't say a word! You're not talking now that PPC's going to orthopaedics. Another proof of SYRIZA's delaying choices has delayed growth, delayed exit from the crisis has led to the loss of economic resources and jobs, so that our country is the last to come out of this crisis, from which other European countries have been tested. And in any case, and your policy has also been judged by our own policy, the policy of the Government of New Democracy, will be judged. And the first signs, as the citizens say at every opportunity, are rather positive, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, too. Mr Chryssomalis has the floor from New Democracy and immediately after Mr Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is taking place today on the legislative acts of the government, which are essentially what is seen from the whole debate at the end of the day. After all, ladies and gentlemen, who can disagree with the contract ratified by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the Sparta Hospital, where there will be a study for both the donation of two aircraft and two helicopters? Nobody. Who can disagree with the heating allowance the Minister mentioned before, which will be given to more of our fellow citizens, with much more fair social criteria? Another proof that social solidarity is a priority for this government. Who can disagree with the extension of the debt arrangement to the municipalities? Nobody. Who can disagree with the protection of the first residence, which, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have not finally protected? And not only did you not protect him, but I remember that the MATs have gone to your former partner, Mr. Lafazanis, to arrest him, but that is, as you say, a past. Let's go to the most important ones now. First of all, as far as the provision on the pricing of medicines is concerned, our fellow citizens will now be able to have cheaper medicines and not more expensive, as they have been in your day. Up to 10% an increase provided for the bill you had tabled and voted on. And since we're talking about drugs, and because I hear stuff from the next room, what about Mr. Froze? As far as we hear, he was in Kumundur more often than he was at home. More often he saw Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Friend at "AGEI", despite his children. We understood that he was the author of SYRIZA's papers on the medicine, the author of the bill. I think they have a lot to answer for the next few days on your side. As far as PPC is concerned, thankfully, even late, you will no longer be in favour of abolishing the NOME auctions. Do you know what the accident is? That this political maturity of yours had about EUR 2.5 billion in the Greek taxpayer's back, about EUR 2 billion lost because you did not go ahead with the plan of the small PPC that you found ready by the Samara government - the privatisation of one third at the time brought from 1.5 to 2 billion in the state funds - and another 600 million at which you damaged PPC, precisely with the NOME auction and sold electricity to PPC's competitors at prices below costs. Finally, in order to be lawful with European case-law and to reduce to 50% the 90% that was PPC's influence, you did it by harming Greek taxpayers. It must be a global originality. Indeed, it must be taught as a case study to avoid, but how you are privatising not without a single euro, but by paying the competitors even. Finally, for the CITES, what is it exactly that bothers you to say things by their name? What exactly bothers you? That Mrs. Demetrius President, SYRIZA's famous prosecutor and friend, doesn't come in. Why? Because there is a finding that a unit of the ERTH in Diabetes operated as a sponsor of legal benefits through which - the so-called legal benefits - innocent drug dealers under the beneficial provisions of the Law of Paraguaypoulou, who had been president for many years. Lucky? Is it a coincidence that that's where you want Mrs. Demetrius? I don't know. However, the only thing for sure is that all of this will be investigated. And because it has been heard by the SYRIZA colleagues here that this regulation deprives thousands of users of the opportunity to change their lives for the better, I say no, this arrangement deprives any drug dealer to be acquitted through such procedures. These will be checked by the finding that came out of the C.E.E.L.D. itself. The responsibilities will be sought. Moreover, it is not bad when more than 20 million are given to the Greek taxpayers by the Greek taxpayers to have a supervisory administration, precisely to see with transparency where this money is going. Finally, with regard to what has been said - and not, of course, to the bill - about the incidents in ASEAN and state violence, state violence is legal against people who are creating a mess, burning, plundering the property of our fellow people. This is precisely the only legitimate state-of-the-art violence that can exist. And, of course, not the state violence you have committed to children, women, our fellow citizens of some age, who have peacefully protested about the Prespecies Agreement and beat them with chemicals. This is the big difference that separates us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Amanatidis has the floor for five minutes, then the Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u263	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, if it were parliamentaryly permissible, I would have expressed my opinion in the form of questions and would have expected opposing opinions, documented on each issue separately. It would be an opportunity to discuss them in a different way. I am saying this because I am deeply convinced that in order to be credible in expressing objections and in this regard in the legislative initiatives that we are discussing, it should initially accept without hesitation what is useful, what is necessary and what is self-evident. And you know - it has been heard earlier - what I am satisfied with is that even on legislative acts they have not been heard, I would say, strong different views or important additions, so as to say that we should not vote on them. After all, there is no "wrong" intent behind any regulation. These are, of course, an ideal look, so allow me to express my views on a few points of the draft law. First of all, as far as the arrangements concerning 'THOMAS COOK' are concerned, these - and this is understandable - are for the benefit of companies and workers and not for the companies themselves, and of course, no further requirements of the Greek State against the company are affected. So, as the honourable Member has already said in the form of questions, can you disagree with the rules on residence tax, VAT and unemployment benefit? Secondly, the abolition of the NOMEs was a government commitment and is now being implemented. Does anyone disagree that money is being saved for tens of millions that could improve both the financial situation and the competitiveness of the company? Do you want me to say my opinion? I prefer these amounts for PPC to give to the area I come from, in Kosani, in Florina, for money it owes to contractors, for money it owes to people who work in the institutions, to the region's self-government. I think it is, indeed, a pioneer, I would say, a strong decision that we should support. The extensions, of course, for the operation of RES and PHY are necessary. I think we all agreed on that. The same applies to the extensions for forest cooperatives. As far as the Center for Extended Persons is concerned, the well-known CTE, I have to say that every decision is judged by the outcome it brings. The new arrangement provides for the appointment of the board of directors by the Minister, but is based on the experience acquired. I do not hide from you that at some point I asked the Minister in the debate that was taking place: 'But I have a different proposal to say.' I understood what he said to me that there was certainly no possibility of a different arrangement being made. Therefore, and once again my reasoning is that, on the basis of the composition of the general assembly, which does not change and the subject of the general assembly, what seems to be the fact that the general assembly's strategy and interests are expressed in it and a board of directors is to be judged - and indeed it will be judged - by the result and then there will be different opinions, since the result is not what we expect, and it will be called upon to do a role which it is assigned to it by a general assembly. In any case, what abolition of participation and self-employed persons are they talking about when no decision of the general assembly is seen by the texts as being adopted by another higher level? After all, I have learned in my professional activity that the structure is the means, the goal is what we are all judging and the result. I would also like to say that the possibility of posting doctors and other civil servants in the public sector is being given the opportunity anyway. No other change can happen. The functions of directors are the same. The self-management of the CSTD shall not be eliminated. As far as the regulations for rightholders are concerned, it is self-evident to say that with the facilities provided, the procedures are simplified, citizens are served. If it is self-evident, we have to say that it is right. If it is not self-evident, let us say that the arrangements propose something innovative that we should support. To close, I would also like to say for the special scientific committee to deal with climate change. There has been a lot of talk about this again. I imagine that the chairman of this committee is responsible for convening her, coordinating her work to that extent. I also imagine that the coordinator of this committee, who should not, in my opinion, be associated with the term of office of members of the committee, which is intended to be three years old, is the expert scientist who combines the objectives of the committee, as the committee's recommendation will provide for, with the external environment, for example, with other scientists of corresponding expertise and will ultimately be the link between the policies and the work that this committee is making. So there is no overlap and I would say that if the coordinator were not proposed, we should have discovered it because it is well known - and so it seems - that the chairman of the committee may have a political time. As far as the representative's position on climate change is concerned now, I also agree with you why. At international meetings, firstly, our country can be better represented through special knowledge and, therefore, an alliance on the ground in the process and operation of the committees. I would also like to say that we cannot, of course, disagree with the abolition of the deadline for applying for the recognition of existing medical sources. Ladies and gentlemen, it is useful to build on self-evident and beneficial, recognizing the value of continuous improvement. Only then will differentiation be possible on the substance and where it really exists, it will be worthwhile and it will contribute to the common objective, not because we need to be differentiated. With these thoughts, then, I approve the draft law and certainly wait for the next one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, too. Mr Economou, Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin with two provisions, the one concerning the extension of deadlines for aquaculture and the one concerning the extension of time limits for the suspension of building permits in the Hypothet. I really thank the powers that have broadly supported these provisions, because they were reasonable. In both cases, of course, we have provisions which extend to obligations of the State which they have not fulfilled in time. From this point of view it is unpleasant for all of us, I think, and I hope that there will be no need for any further extension. I am sure that there will be no need for any further extension in either case. Now let me speak very briefly on the Greek issue. In any case, there has been a demand and I will not repeat the arguments which have been made. There have been the following reasons: Firstly, what was done by the act of legislation on public and public-private areas, in other words, the non-direct delivery to the municipalities, is unprecedented, that it has never happened again and that, for the first time in Greek legal order, this thing is happening. The second point was that this provision was equivalent to the annulment of the publicity of public spaces and their delivery to LAMD, and the third complaint was that this was indefinite. From the debate that has taken place in the committees, I have the impression that there has been a misunderstanding. Let's see more specifically. It was not the first time that the public space delivery would not take place immediately after the urban study was approved. The first time that was anticipated was by an order of SYRIZA in 2018 and concerned exclusively the Greek. And, as I have repeatedly said to the committees, SYRIZA has done very well because it was reasonable, because the Greek is the only case that he is responsible for the implementation of public and public spaces is not the municipality, but another body. So the management had to stay in this body until what it has to do, what it is obliged to do. The second is that this is not a tradition of public spaces. However, because there has been questioning or possibly reasonable suspicion, with a change that we have today, we expressly predict that the ownership of public and public spaces and social recompense will be passed on to the municipalities, to the management body of the public areas of Greece. However, it will eventually pass to the municipalities immediately after distribution and before the transfer, which means that in about three months the ownership will pass to the municipalities. This is explicitly provided for in the amendment we are amending. The third point, namely the indefinite extension of this system, the non-delivery of public spaces, was not precise. The integrated development plan of the Hellenic Republic of 2018 provides for a timetable for the Greek which is twenty-five years long. That does not mean that everything ends in twenty-five years, but that's 25-five years. In fact, the tradition of public spaces as well as SYRIZA's previous provision was linked to this timetable that is approved. What we are now bringing to an amendment is that the joint ministerial decision provided for in the amendment will specify the modalities for the implementation of this provision, namely, for the late divisional delivery of public spaces, will also define a clear and final timetable. In other words, there will be provision for public spaces - partially - a specific timetable for the delivery of public spaces to the operator, the same thing that will be planned - the amendment says again - and for the delivery of public spaces. What I want to say is not the amendment. However, I formally declare and commit that the tradition of all the public utilities in Greek will become very quickly, that is, within the next year. The tradition of the communists will proceed in part, but it will certainly not reach twenty-five years. It'll be much smaller in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kelles now has the floor for seven minutes and then Mr. Hetas. Here, Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law solves and solves a number of critical issues relating to the practical strengthening of the social state. I would therefore like to begin with the health issues that concern me twice as much as my medical status. First of all, Article 12 solves chronic problems facing many hospitals in the country. And I would like here to congratulate the relevant ministers, Mr Kikilias and Mr Kontozamanis, because they promote overall flexibility and enhance the effectiveness of the country's health units. Hospitals are health establishments aimed at shielding public health and constantly upgrading the services provided to citizens. Therefore, the provision for the preparation, amendment of the bodies of the legal persons of the public health sector of the Ministry of Health by 30 April 2020 re-activates the possibility of direct action and resolution of a large number of organisational and operational issues by the co-legislative ministers instead of the process of issuing presidential decrees which, as you well know, are very time-consuming compared to the speed at which public health must operate. The second issue concerning the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health is the Ministry of Health, in particular the new procedure for the appointment of the Board of Directors by an act of the Minister of Health. This is an issue that has raised a storm of protests and objections from the side of SYRIZA and Anti-Population. And really, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I do not understand why. The Minister explained and fully substantiated his intervention. The public funding provided is EUR 20 million and the only reason for this is to have more effective administration in matters of financial control and accountability. Neither self-government nor self-management of the JETD are excluded in all areas of its therapeutic intervention and activities. The association of the general meeting is still unacceptable and its operation is not undone. Instead, this is defined as the central decision-making body for the annual strategic planning on therapeutic practices, related ideological and educational issues. We believe that with this redesign and in conjunction with the arrangements set out in Article 13 relating to regulation, well-functioning of the centre, its overall effectiveness in the context of national drug policy 2020-2024 will be strengthened. Thirdly, the relevant health ministers regulate the also serious issue of invoicing medicines. I am referring in particular to the amendment number 76/11 which states that the average of the two lowest prices of the euro area Member States will be defined, while in their valuation price increases will not be allowed. In addition, a reference medicinal product must have been invoiced for at least three euro area Member States for the first time. There is no doubt that these forecasts will make it easier for patients and have a clear social profile. Accordingly, our social policy is particularly critical of the amendment introduced by the Minister of Education, Amendment No 84/15, which paves the way for the implementation of our commitment to appointments to special education, which is our top priority in our planning of upgrading the education system by exploiting the capabilities of the HEIs. Another major regulation of a strong social nature is improving the existing institutional framework for protecting first residence. As we have pointed out in the committee, account is taken of debtors and can be taken of the protectionist arrangements of the law by more beneficiaries. Whether they are new applications or applications that have already been submitted but have not been completed, the beneficiaries will protect their first residence, regardless of whether they are resident in a rented or licensed property within the regional unit in which their principal residence is situated. In conjunction with other arrangements and in relation to the submission of applications, a better long-term financial planning is available for households. Finally, we have also pointed this out to the committee on the provisions of the Ministry of the Environment, undeniably dealing with issues which have a development dimension. First of all, arrangements are introduced aimed at better functioning of the energy market and more efficient adaptation of the country and of the economy to climate change. Secondly, the uninterrupted operation of forest cooperative organisations is promoted, the more effective definition of areas for organised aquaculture development and the delivery of social return areas to the Greek. Ladies and gentlemen, as understood by the vote on this draft law, a number of effective but particularly critical issues that strengthen the social state are regulated. At the same time, malfunctions are being addressed and specific measures are taken in specific areas, covering gaps that arise between the legalisation of policies and their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas has the floor. Then will Mr. Stamenitis, Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Mandas, Minister Theocharis, Mr. Liupis and Mr. Apostolos. That's the show. Here, Mr Heta, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u269	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start with a response from my fellow Parliamentary spokesman for the New Democracy, Mr Bukkoro, who is not here now, but will be here shortly and will know what has been said in this Chamber. It's understandable to take two breaths of man. I heard him talking about PPC and accusing SYRIZA of the anticipation of PPC. We won't disagree about that. He wondered whether SYRIZA would apologise for PPC's situation. We yell. We have asked Mr Hatzidakis and today I myself walked from here to the ministerial seats to say to him: 'Mr Hatzidakis, you have not answered the question that we have asked you today. The PPC Committee of Inquiry will you do? You're gonna set them up on the wall? Will you ask them why they abused PPC and brought it here?' You blame them, set up a theatre, set up a battle - duel for the news releases, for panels, for the eyes of the world, but when it's time for you really to squeeze back. The same occurs in a room just above this, in Parliament, in the 'NOVARTIS' pre-examination. We should have talked about it. Everything about the show, theatres, you're supposed to be fighting, you're rivals. You've actually found them. We've been through it many times. The world has a tombstone, and you're the one who's hidden. You've all been hammered. Korax eye doesn't work. Nothing's going to come out in the forum, unfortunately. You have never told us and the Greek people will never know where the millions, the billions of euros have been lost, what the doctors have eaten in the health of sucklers and patients. That's what the Greek people are interested in. For PPC "behold Rhodes, behold and fuck." If you care so much, do an exam to tell us how the gentlemen of SYRIZA reached the cliff, as it cuts you so much. I'll say two things about today's bill before I go to the rest of the issues. You are really making a serious effort to close arable accounts with the past and to open new accounts with the future. The bill looks like a Scottish shower. On the one hand, it is really serious issues which need to be considered, but on the other hand, you are bringing some 'photographic' provisions. It's a bill - if I may express - low flight and low expectations. It compromises where it should not and does not go beyond where it should be. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, Greek and Greek. The Ministry of Health in today's bill mentions the need to recruit staff in refugees' hospitality structures. To recruit personnel for refugee hospitals and for all the other hospitals in Greece, the Greek dies in ranches. That's where we haven't figured out, we haven't predicted putting anything from the state budget that we've gotten past him anyway. That's more money now. We strike the Greek citizen well. Tell us: Do these recruitments that need to be carried out directly, as you say, are there prepared medical facilities? Where will these doctors be housed? What specialties are we talking about? Where will they belong? You are not giving any information on this important issue. What contracts will they sign? Now we're going to the Ministry of Education. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek and Greek, listen. Special Scientific Committee - says the Ministry of Education - to tackle climate change. Awesome. It will be supervised - it says - directly by the Minister of State, that this committee will have a three-year term, that various organizations, distinguished scientists will be involved and that there will be no end. Well done. Did you suffer from SYRIZA? The Pope used to say that with the space company he wanted to build. Do you do the same? Special Scientific Committee on Climate Change? Also, open the windows wide to settle "blue" strains, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Listen to this paradox, and then I go to other issues. I cannot help talking about protecting the first home. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. I am referring in particular to the provision that the bank will pay - just listen - to the lawyer who advises the borrower to turn legally against the bank. I mean, the bank's gonna pay the poor boy's lawyer who wants to turn against the bank. All right, is that all right, guys? Let's go a little on the subject of the days to which I referred and yesterday we became a subject, Mr Marcos, on the sites yesterday. I gave you the opportunity to withdraw and you did not withdraw. I am referring to the 'bugs' and asylum. As a taxpayer, therefore, and as a parent, I demand that those who are public property be paid for the damage they cause. It's over and out. Today we had a student rally, gentlemen of SYRIZA, gentlemen of the Left in general. They broke out shops, our little birds on the student course they did. They hit a photojournalist right and left. Your colleagues have been hit, ladies and gentlemen. They broke the windows and down the stores. Who's gonna pay for this, guys? Who's gonna pay for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u270	The Macedonians...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u271	Are the Macedonians going to pay, Mr. Barca? Who's gonna pay for it? Say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Heta, Mr. Barkas, please. Go on, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u273	Until now, hug the MATs you have ruled, and now suddenly you have become revolutionaries again. Come on! Four-and-a-half years, you've run a hug with the crabs. You couldn't even walk the streets. Law and order, then, and if you like it. But I want this story to end if the law and order from here can be enforced. We said that yesterday, and our President said so. We want universities to leave the centre and go out to the regions and actually enforce law and order. Here's what Mr. Tsipras said today. He said it was the media thing about university image. The average viewer has a wrong image because - he says - he thinks that in universities there is no lesson, but they only make molotov and in general there is a man of lawlessness. We therefore say that in the Greek universities there is indeed a good lesson, that the level of our universities is indeed too high. We have one of the best public universities in Europe, and we want to protect these from the 'bad molluscs' called 'bad molluscs'. Why don't we agree on that? We're not saying universities are bad. We're not saying our public universities are bad. We say it is too high, but let us protect it, since it is so high. Whatever we're breaking from here, we're sending it to Mr. Barka. Who controls the account? That's what I mean. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go a little bit to the illegal immigration, 'cause we're going to go crazy in this country. At the end of the day, we're going to go crazy. Now listen. IMO, International Organisation for Migration. Who controls, you guys, this IM? What's that IMO? Is the IMO more powerful, this International Organisation for Migration than the Government? Here's what this IMO is doing. It shows, ladies and gentlemen, Greece - and I will speak with evidence - as a paradise for illegal immigrants. He's looking for houses to rent. Airbnb? He's looking for houses to rent and presents them as a paradise. It shouts "help the Greek migration paradise". From where and up to where a state free like Greece allows an agency - what kind of organization is this IMO - to run a task in a country and in whole regions, to have poachers to bring the illegal immigrants here? Have you seen the last video that the IM's advertising his story? Which EOT? Mr. Theochari, who EOT? The IMO in its last campaign advertises Greece as the land of the promise. Advertises swimming pool hospitality hotels in Evia. That's true. I hope you know that. IMO, the International Organisation for Migrants, says: 'Come to Greece'. See the videos, what's going on in there. I'm figuring out the photos and the article about exactly what's going on. They say: "In Greece I pressed my leg on Christmas Day, 1917. The IMO couldn't have given me more. IM workers have become my brothers and have been spoiling me. Last May, it was announced that Greece granted me asylum, recognising me as a refugee. All I have left is to get my official papers, my passport and publish me and APM." [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The invasion of our country, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, is progressing just like the invasion of the disease. He's got stadiums. Also, unfortunately, the governments' insistence on making all these mistakes has allowed this disease to spread. The disease has now passed in the second stage, at the consequences stage, and whether we have a "grass-out" now winter, from March onwards that the weather will build again, you will see what has to do. In Chios they burned the Holy Bank of the Church. In Samos they cut forest trees, they cast cement and they build houses after the non-governmental organizations directive. In Evros, ambushes are set up in hunters and attempting to steal their weapons. In Thessaloniki the other day, at Aristotle, at the most central, we had stabbings about who will understand the street, who will be the leader of the street. In the Diabetes the other day when the Greek Solution was found there, we heard shocking complaints from the inhabitants. Greece is a paradise for illegal immigrants and is developing into hell for Greeks. Unfortunately, it turns out that you are incapable of facing this crisis, because we have told you that this crisis is being dealt with in a concrete way. Close the border, life on poachers, transfer to uninhabited islands with structures in illegal immigrants and close the NGOs and end the fairy tale. Everything else is aspirins. Kyriakos Velopoulos revealed yesterday that the money for these illegal immigrants is paid by Greek taxpayers. Today we have heard this incredible. They took them to the Poretsu Monastery, protested - says - the illegal immigrants and left. They told Moria better than there. Better in Moria than there! And I was now reading that it is from Somalia, from Sudan, from Congo and Iran. A few minutes ago, the Port announced - you are going to see it now, gentlemen of the government - officially'serious episode off Chios and shot at a speedy boat, which carried illegal immigrants to the open of Chios and was finally forced to turn again in the opposite direction towards Turkey'. And I close, ladies and gentlemen, with this. I know that many colleagues would not be here today, because the presence of Mr Mitsotakis - of the New Democracy - in Thessaloniki would force them to be there. How irony! The first meeting of Mitsotakis - Zaev after the French blog on Macedonia's accession to the European Union takes place in Thessaloniki. How irony! Congratulations. It turns out that not only did you have the opportunity that this agreement could be blocked, as the French blocked it, but of course you feel relieved, because the gentlemen here have taken you out of the difficult position. The irony is that the first meeting of Mitsotakis - Zaev takes place in the capital of Macedonia, the one and only Macedonia, in Greek Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Heta. For cognitive reasons - for the sake of knowledge, i.e. - the International Organisation for Migration is a UN organization.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u275	And? Is he going to run this place?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u276	No, because you asked which organism that was.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u277	I've obviously called it rhetorical.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u278	I imagine the UN knows who it is. It is a UN agency and it only uses money that the UN and the European Union give it. Just so you know it. Mr. Stamenitis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the vote on today's bill we proceed to ratify the three legislative acts, which are of particular importance and cover issues such as the economy, energy and the environment. Arrangements that facilitate the daily lives of citizens, solve problems and act as a enhancer in the overall effort to raise and develop the economy. In my position, I would like to focus more on the provisions of Article 2 concerning the ratification of the Act of 30 September 2019 on the abolition of the auction for future electricity products, the famous NOMEs, which was scheduled to take place on 16 October 2019, while abolishing the possibility of other new auctions based on the same model. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Environment and Energy is right to go into this regulation, for the very simple reason that there is a great need to resolve PPC, as we have received the agency with debts of more than 900 million to the limits of the collapse. It goes on to regulate, because it is absolutely essential for consumers to be protected, but also for the Agency to be protected. It goes on to regulate, because our logic is not to protect the interests of others, nor to operate in a way that benefits PPC's competitors. The tenders introduced by the previous government of SYRIZA with L.4389/2016, which in practice gave the company’s competitors the opportunity to buy electricity at a price lower than costs, are therefore repealed. It is therefore undeniable that the Government and the Ministry's leadership, in this context, had to go ahead in particular with the immediate resolution of these issues. It was now a matter of survival. In order to understand the extent of the damage caused by the previous government's decision, it is sufficient to say that there is an estimate that due to the NOMEs PPC had a loss of EUR 600 million totalling three and a half years in favour of its competitors. We understand, therefore, that the purpose of the proposed regulation is part of the broader design that exists for energy policy and will present it by law, as the Minister for the Environment and Energy said, and it concerns the full reorganisation of the domestic energy market. At the same time, it favours strengthening more efficient and effective policies for consumers and the country's development as a whole. Here it is worth noting that in this case too we have wasted time and money with the ideas and nursings of the previous government. Instead of following the agreement of the then government of Samaras with the institutions, which opted for the small PPC model rather than NOMEs, it preferred the voices and reactions against privatisation, but essentially handed over 50% of PPC's clients free of charge to competitors. We should also say here that the small PPC model would enable the company to make money and not lose, as with the model chosen by SYRIZA as a government, that is, the NOME model. What did SYRIZA prefer? Instead of the small PPC, which 30% of the customers of energy production either from lignite or hydroelectric would be given to a private bid with income directly to PPC of about EUR 1.5 billion, money that would help modernise PPC, it preferred NOMEs, i.e. the lignite current auctions, with a sale below the cost, thus losing 600m euros and substantially delivering 50% of the customers free of charge. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] So let the Greek people know who is working for the public interest and the interests of Greek consumers and who are spreading national capital into ideological and ultimately wrong and harmful choices. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is another proof that the New Democracy Government honours the Greek people's vote. It aims at the substantial production of work, corrects problems and overcomes obstacles, such as the announcement made by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stagiras, on heating oil, which forms part of Category 1 of small communities, when the municipality's seat is not mountainous, expands the beneficiaries and greatly increases the amounts paid, which are paid to the beneficiaries of the heating allowance. In other words, I repeat, it corrects the problems and overcomes the obstacles. We are doing all this quickly, without letting time pass against the citizens and the country. After all, the effort that has been made since the next elections to reconstruct the country requires immediate, real and substantial solutions to big, but also small issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much for the consistency in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and five educational attendants from the 17th Larisa Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, thank you. Good evening to the kids who are here and their teachers. The first section of my thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, is caused by the position of the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, Ms Xinoyannakopoulou, which began its position on the events at the Athens University of Economics, in ASE, as we were saying. Undoubtedly, the vast majority of Greeks and Greeks want universities to operate in order to be able to distribute knowledge, information, thought and, in general, as areas of academic freedom. The vast majority of the parents who learn that their child entered the Greek university, especially those of Athens and Thessaloniki, want universities to be spaces of knowledge, as I described them just before, and not spaces of disorder, drugs, violence, terrorism. He heard, dear SYRIZA's colleague, a charming patron of yours, that the police couldn't find the attack he made on Sunday and no kalashnikov. Obviously. He didn't even find any mortar. But he didn't enter a camp, he entered a university. So these cute things are to be said among you, not to address them to the Greek people, because the vast majority of the Greek people, I repeat, believe that compliance with the law, boldness and security are prerequisites for democracy. This is the position of principle. Whoever is a democrat condemns these. In his draft law and its issues, ladies and gentlemen, we, like our rapporteur in the Standing Committee, Mr Kegeroglu, have repeatedly stated, cannot start with this draft law, to say yes or no, and we are driving to no. Because when you're in love at first, you have to recognize it in the text. This is a multi-project, a broom, which at first, and finally does not have. Therefore, my position as a Parliamentary representative does not exist at first instance, since I call on what Michalis Katrinis, my colleague and rapporteur of the Change Movement in plenary. I would like to begin by addressing the Minister with a small reference to the issues of education. I have told her in my previous position that it is not understood as a Minister of Education to amend and not legislate. There is no draft law that comes to Parliament and does not have an amendment to it, so that after four months we cannot understand this ministry where it is going and we must read newspapers, where every day, every newspaper has two - three measures that it announces. That's not how it works. I do not want to make a reference - I call on Mrs Kefalidou - but I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this reference to the Ministry of Education, that today Argyris Kumtzis, the blind student, was sworn to when I was the Minister of Education at the university. He didn't write the university in his ranks because he was blind. He was advised by the then Rector of the Left, Mr. Mylopoulou, to go to Pedagogical. The kid could. Listening to the mayor of his municipality, Simo, Danielides, and learning the problem, I did everything I could do to enrol the child into Physics. Written, excelled, and today he swore. I'm saying it and I'm creeping. Because how much effort it takes when you have such a personal problem, be excellent. And he was accepted by Hanover as a postgraduate student to do his doctorate, please. Today he swore and a few days later he'd leave for Hanover to do his doctoral thesis. Good for the example that this new Greek gives to all families and to all children. Now, for the Department of Health, this is my intervention point. I cannot comment on this. I am going to make a number of points on many of the issues dealt with in this draft law. I told Mr. Kikilis in a previous draft law - and I am referring to you now, Mr. Kontozamanis, we call you Kontovazainitis, because you are called Vasilis and you remind us of the old athlete - I told Mr. Xanthos many times: it is not possible in the center of Athens the Greek, Greek, tourist, to see the human rakis outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, under the hangar of Bank of Greece, almost everywhere. This is a matter of the Minister of Health, no one else. Because it's not a simple thing about these people who have been there for months to pick them up. I don't like the term either. You have to deal with them by helping them. The EKPB cannot today with a simple vehicle to move them to a better space than the road. It takes a specially equipped vehicle and specially equipped people who will go and will not be in danger - because they refuse to go - from the microbes that the man who is five, six, seven months sleeps on the road can have. Do that. It's a sign of humanity. We did it in our own days. Prevalently, however, we did. SYRIZA didn't deal with it. Four months, you guys look at it. What are you looking at? So, what do you expect to say you have to deal with it? Health number 2. We will vote against it and vote against it because we wonder. Did you see how sometimes you easily see how other things you say when you're opposition and other things you do when you become government? We invoiced the medicines on the initiative of PASOK - my own, Katseli, Xinogiannakopoulou - as invoiced at the three lowest prices in the European Union. Suddenly, there is an intervention from SYRIZA and they say 'no, with the lowest two of the Eurozone'. From three to two, from the European Union, Eurozone. We and New Democracy were saying, "But why are you doing this? That's exactly the way the medicine is, and Mr. Blonde told us that "we don't care, because there's the claw back, so the public two billion pays, that's it." But here yesterday's "KATHMERINA" on the financial pages says that in 2019 the claw back rises by 41%. One cause is most uninsured, second cause is the higher cost for vaccines and third cause and, lastingly, excessive prescribing. If the claw back falls into the Council of State, what are you going to do? We shall also be tabling an amendment, because you are not listening. We say that you who are government to take legislative initiative and reintroduce the pricing method as it was, by removing SYRIZA's intervention. Why don't you do it? Until you do, we will vote against any such arrangements, even if it involves a small discount. No, that's the big one. You're now government. You have the full legislative initiative and you must do so. Health number 3, for the CEDEFOP. First of all, what was cooked to show a certain lady head of the CECH would justify any actions. Because, okay, there are limits to the nerve. But I don't care about that. I am interested in the proposal from our own Member, Andreas Poula, who said that you should go to another provision of the administrative body in charge of the JET. You're talking about seven members in transition. It must be nine and eleven with the addition of two members from scientific areas, legal and legal, and another two from the families of people suffering from this disease - because it is a disease - and a worker's representative. In any case, what has happened and what has been done, and what has been soared for the leadership of the CDEC, does not forgive party, client interventions. We're not going from one end to the other. The abolition of quasi-individualism of our CEDEFOP finds us across the street. We don't agree. If it was a solution to overcome a problem now with the person who were drunk to lead the CEDEFOP, it would appear if after a few weeks bring in a arrangement that would protect the quasi-corporate of the CEDEFOP. As far as health is concerned, the last point I want to raise. Ladies and gentlemen, for two years now when the scandal broke out, the economic and political construction 'NOVARTIS', I say from this step, with respect for justice and politics, that the director-general of this company met him for a maximum of ten to twenty seconds while holding a hand. That was my acquaintance with him. Never before, I never saw him in my life, nor had any communication. For two years the shepherds have not been inviting him to say that for two years, and it has had to be a pretext for the wrongdoing to hear this truth in the House today. I've been saying this for two years in this room. My tongue's hairy. It is simple for a politician of my own route to face without fear - because Andreas Loverdes is not afraid of anyone - at the level of arguments nonsense and nonsense, but it is not at all simple to see that arguments and truths some manufacturers do not let them be heard in justice. I would like to stress this and end with it. Let's go to the last point of my point of order. Again, this draft law has no beginning. It is a broom bill and we cannot identify a start to say whether we are in favour or against, which is why we will vote against. It's the regulation on first home affairs. I heard from Mr Stavoura - not yet in the Minutes, Mr Katrin informed me why he heard the video and what he could understand - that the Minister of Finance came and explained his intervention and gave tables which are very useful to reveal - I asked them and took them immediately - how great the problem is. Of the total problem I was saying yesterday of 80 billion red loans, too many are housing and many of them concern the first residence. We thank him for the paintings. We'll use them. We have a problem with something, and that's what I'm finishing. We have taken legislative initiative since 2018. My colleague, Mr Constantinople, had prepared her. And we have discussed with several bank managers, we have not thrown a demagogue on the road, the possibility of selling a housing loan, which is impossible for the home owner, the first home, to pay his obligations, before transferring to a fund, to be able to trade the credit institution with him. The percentages that the funds buy are too low. As I have said in another position, it is wrong to say: 'The bank has been relieved, the problem is over'. No, a part of the problem is dealt with by not suffering the banks from red loans, but the man who is unable to fulfil his obligations is now facing others.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u282	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u283	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's my last phrase. He's dealing with some others now and they can be harder than the banks. It's very logical that you listen to our basic idea. Now SYRIZA's listening to her. I hear that a number of colleagues from this party are sympathetic. But we proposed it in 2018. They hadn't accepted it and even walked us sometimes. So we say that this aspect of our proposal must be respected by the majority. As I said yesterday, by closing my speech and repeating it, when the opposition makes a good proposal, the government wins in the area of logic when it adopts it. We cannot understand why what methodically comes out, technically, is not a proposal that sounds well but technically cannot be implemented, why do you not hear it? So we suggest it because only in this way can each government and each House look at the people who cannot fulfil their obligations and tell them that I did what was going through my hand and you did not respond. It is a sine qua non of a social treatment by the government and by the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u284	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr. Manda from New Democracy I will inform you that after Mr. Manda I will give the floor to the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theochari for ten minutes and then to Mrs. Diamanto Manolakos from the Communist Party of Greece for 12 minutes. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that a great deal of time has come up in the news. An issue that has been an area of intense controversy, but also an issue that clearly represents the root causes of the decline which our country has experienced in recent years. A period when we all have to leave behind definitively. I am of course referring to the Centre for the Treatment of Degraded Persons, the Centre with its declared purpose of rehabilitating and reintegrating people with dependency. I come from Messinia Law. For years I have had the opportunity to see the actions of the local structure of the JETD, to contact employees, volunteers, to appreciate their truly important work, but also to get to know many of the members of the curative programs and firsthand to recognize their own struggles for social reintegration. And this is something that the local society of Messinia has been supporting in many and various ways. However, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose and the work of the Agency, however important it may be, must not act as a backdrop. They must not blind us and let us see everything that is going on inside. Because it was a lot of what happened. Obvious procedures, illegal circuits, are not too little and what has been heard in the past few days in publicity. And, unfortunately, for those involved, the complaints are clear and they are also branded. Only in the General Accounting Office of the State, if we stand, is it sufficient to think differently about what was actually happening within the organization: Unrealistic budgeting, non-binding amounts that are not used, financial orders without signatures, incomplete supporting documents, non-compliance with intended procurement procedures. I ask you: is it possible for the person who approved the expenditure, to be the same person as the liquidation? Is it possible for there to be such a large percentage of direct awards without there being an approved procurement programme? If we take into account, and what the founder of the CECH denounces, Mr. Zafiridis, then rather things are much worse than you can imagine. And what Mr Zafiridis does not say about the dominance of the informal leading group, about the treatment communities that operate, about the preparation of programmes without any study, about self-government with the alterations of the main Fridays and Notara in the position of President for twenty years for intimidation of officials. Of course, above all, "corruption in the Diavata of Thessaloniki", with drug dealers being baptized "users" and treated favorably by the Law of Friday. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the figures are shocking. And the Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilias, did what is self-evident, what each one of us would do in his own place if he were faced with such a situation. He puts an end to this chaos of opacity, irregularities and lawlessness. On this point, however, we must be clear again. Other the work of the CEDEFOP and its employees and the management and logic of the paragagon, which has so far been implemented. Because no one is messing with the workers and the SYRIZA who is using them to make cheap opposition. Let everyone know that mismanagement cannot be veiled behind artificial acidification, putting before the workers and the social work of the CEDEFOP. Nor is it the self-government and self-management of the organization as some falsely proclaimed. But instead they become clearer and more functional. Because the general meeting of the centre - as upgraded by the act of legislation - has broadened competences and can form the overall strategy of the organization and its structures, and it includes both the employees of the JETHA and the members of the curriculum, parents, friends and honorary members. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that clearing in this country must continue. We must put an end to every outbreak of transgression, opacity and waste. Because we all have to understand that 'leaf trees' no longer exist, that the funds must catch a place and that respect for legality and accountability will be applied in every aspect of the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much. And now I will give the floor to the Minister of Tourism, Mr Theocharis, for 10 minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u287	I won't need that many minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u288	I wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. There are many provisions in this bill. So it'll be as good as we can compact our comments on them. Ladies and gentlemen, these provisions regulate important issues for Greek tourism, issues of an urgent nature, and that is why they must now go through with the ratification of the two acts of legislation. From the first time we took over the governance we said that for us, for the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, tourism is a national issue and the way we treat the tourism product goes through a different perspective, namely, sustainability, authenticity, quality. This tripartite is the basis of our strategy. That is why we are moving forward in the regulation of these issues which have come under the carpet, even though they are small, a few urgent issues. The first issue is health resources. From almost the first day that I took over the Ministry of Tourism I received calls from various regions of the country, as the deadline for submitting applications expired or faced various other problems with regard to their licensing or continued operation, Kaiafas, Pozar, Ikaria, Samothrace, Cyclone, Agia Larissa. And of course there are still many outstanding areas. These are areas where health resources are an essential attraction for the region. There were, of course, flaws. And usually the truth is - and we have to say it - the municipalities are weak. They do not have the opportunity to conduct all these necessary studies. And this led to a strong malfunction so that these procedures could be terminated. Now we come here to this bill to change a provision, which had no sense in it. There was a deadline for making an application to identify a source as a diagnostic. In other words, if today, which is the end of this deadline, someone is doing a hole and finds water in a drilling and is healthy or suspect that it is healthy and is doing studies to identify themselves, it cannot even apply. He can't identify his source. We already have six such cases which cannot make this request. So there is no sense in the time limit. Perhaps as an indirect means of undermining the existing ones now since 2006 - which originally entered the bill that tried to set a order, it was perhaps meaningful to lead to a process of quicker recognition or pressure - a series of extensions have come and now I think it is time to abolish the deadline for applying for the recognition of existing medical resources. Those who run, manage or exploit the thermal natural resources can apply to the relevant department of the Ministry of Tourism and, of course, this is in turn through the committee responsible to recognise or not - if it is not a health resource - that resource. The second question is the classification of tourist accommodation. The Ministry here legislates on an issue that is important to the hotel industry and puts an end to the vicious cycle of prolongations. And here we had a process that started in 2015 -- a first deadline was made - until 2017. And since then we have had continuous extensions, which have led to a situation in which many more thousands of tourist businesses have not been certified for their stars. So what happened? Every time - and that was the initial suggestion of the services - we give a year, because we have not had time to do so, that is, a continuation of the vicious circle. What with our Ministry, with the Ministry of Tourism, with the logic with which I at least see things, cannot continue. So for the first time, we are judging with justice, realism and efficiency with this tripartite. I am talking about justice, because what accommodations have already been classified on the basis of the predominant technical and operational standards, namely those who are law-abiding, automatically get an extension to the rankings they have taken for three more years. Finally, those who are law-abiding, at some point in this country must be rewarded. I'm talking about realism because six thousand hotels have not finished their ranking certification. Our country has the opportunity to rank about three thousand hotels a year. We are therefore giving an extension for two years so that everyone can register in reasonable time. We do not put extensions per year while we know that it is not possible to register. The period of classification is therefore extended to 31-12-2021. I am talking about efficiency, because we do not want to relegate with another extension after two years. If we were to finish there, in two years instead of six thousand hotels, we would have five thousand eight hundred and again the House would be here to discuss an extension. That is why we are giving a clear incentive for everyone to be included in the time that is reasonable and willing and able. If the classification is completed in the first year of the two that we are extending, then it will apply for five years. If the classification is completed in the second year, it will be valid for three years. So everyone has the incentive to come in and classify, to see that what they have said in Notify my Business is true and they are indeed entitled to the stars they say. Of course, if after 31-12-2021 no registration certificate has been presented, then the installation will be sealed. There is no other way than legality, and this must be clean and respected from the outset. We have given appropriate incentives and, of course, if a hotel is sealed, it has the ability to come to be certified to register and reopen. There is no question of that. The third issue and last is the management of the consequences of 'THOMAS COOK'. Since the first hours it has been implemented - we have said it - I do not think we can add anything more if we say it again - a plan to address the problem that has arisen since the collapse of 'THOMAS COOK'. From 23 September to 4 October, in ten days' time, we have taken a series of initiatives with the MIPs which, in cooperation with the relevant ministries and, in particular, the Ministry of Finance, have come, implemented and come today to ratify them. These are measures that have been implemented directly, and today we are also legislating a third essential and important part, the support measures for workers in enterprises affected by the 'Thomas COOK'. Therefore, the equivalents necessary for the payment of the unemployment benefit from 100 to 80 are reduced and the time for payment of the allowance is extended by one month. The work that has been done in trying to remove the consequences of 'THOMAS COOK' is evident. Of course, as I have a duty, I have been in one of the two biggest London reports in the last few days, the World Travel Market, and I have spoken with all the most important players and tour operators in Great Britain, but also with the wider ones. There, as well as speaking about hotel owners in our country, it seems that efforts and discussions and links between tourism businessmen have already been implemented, and now we are talking and we are talking about the next steps, how we can improve the situation and the process in the medium term. Well, the job is obvious. We encouraged and encouraged the agreements, contacted our strategy to heal the wounds immediately, and this thing has already shown its results. Mostly, however, our work will continue. We'll be close to businessmen, operators, tourists themselves. Everyone who is related to tourism will know that the Ministry of Tourism is close to them, and that is why for the first year this year will start much sooner and much faster the advertising campaign than it was in previous years and than it was this year that started in June, in the middle of the year. So we close this year hard and look at 2020 with optimism, hard work. Along with people of tourism we will win the bet for a powerful tourism product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, too. I thought I'd earn a five-minutes from the minister, but it didn't happen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the High School of Pheasants of Corfu. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Velopoulos, President of Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you very much. I'd like to start by saying something from the past, which should be the photon for all of us. Platos: "When man gets proper education, he becomes a divine and very visible animal and when he is not raised enough or appropriately becomes the wildest of what nature gave birth." That is what I would say he should be a signaller and a photographer of all those who are currently being played in the last few days around the House and especially in the Greek universities. We have built a education that does not create civilized beings, but barbarians, barbarians in the conduct of axes, ballads, molotovs and all that. We're all responsible. And what concerns me is that within the Greek Parliament there are university teachers, please, teachers, teachers, academics, teachers, who have confused the education and education of people with barbarity and trabucism. I heard a stunning professor, because I had teachers at the university, saying the following thing unimportant. I won't even say his name for just one reason, I respect his quality. He's a teacher, he's a teacher, he's a teacher. So he said: "If I go to the protest, I may have a helmet near not to break my head MATs. I'll have a flag pole that I can use as a weapon. Ten bottles all, half the diffuse, half of it was of plastic water." They were said by a professor of Greek university, a man elected to the Greek Parliament. I was expecting an apology, because the professor - and the politician is not speaking, because we are all political beings - is the one who trains, trains, gives education to our children, morals and morals. I'm sorry, I didn't hear. And here I'm going to ask a rhetorical question: if we could hear him on a field, we'd call him houligano or trumpet. If we could hear him in a market between two teams killed by each other, we'd call him a barbaric, we'd call him a vandal. He is a professor and instead of apologizing, as we all make mistakes in our lives and a verbal failure, he insists even now this fellow Member and teacher. If I had him in my own parliamentary group, I would have kicked him out from yesterday - and I am sorry to say it - because incitement to violence is a crime, as you know. He cannot say: 'I will have gun skeletons with me'. It is not possible to say these things not only in Parliament, but also in television.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u292	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u293	You want his name? He is SYRIZA's colleague, Kostas Markus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u294	What did he say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u295	Can I say the same again in the first place? The president will give me time. He said: "I'll have a flag latch that I can use as a weapon". Christ and God bless you! And no one says anything. Mr Tsipras must put him out of the parliamentary group and I say it so that some people can understand it. If anyone else were to say so from any group, from New Democracy or from us, you would call him a far right, fascist. Fascism is neither red nor blue. Fascism is mentality. Whether you're left and you have a fascist perception or right-wing thing is for us. It's clear. And these must at least be said carefully. They hear us kids, 15-year-olds, sixteen-year-olds, 17-year-olds. When they see their teacher promote violence, promote violence, what do we expect from the children the six-year-olds that boils their blood? Clearly they're going into the university, they're clearly going into the Polytechnic to burn it down, break it, after the other one has taken the bats. So I started my speech, and I am very sad to say this sincerely, because we all had teachers. Of course, older teachers were somewhat different from younger teachers. That's the reality. They taught me morality, though. Let's go to the bill now. Confused provisions, unconnected with each other, Ministers. That saying of our Prime Minister, whom I respect 'the principle of good law', where did he go? I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has put into it. You're bringing them here. That commitment of the New Democracy that 'you know, we have a programme, do not vote SYRIZA, vote for us why we have a programme' that program, the plan where it went, where it exists? I said it in the election that you don't have a plan and a schedule. I insisted on it and proved after four months. We are going to 'Thomas COOK'. I see you very pitiful. People lost a lot of money. For me, however, this is not a big deal as much as the other one. You rabbits with the European Union because you do not tell the Greek people that when a Greek company goes bankrupt, it is going bankrupt. Why did Germany go to the European Union with the 'THOMAS COOK', the 'CONCORD', the 'KONTORY' and asked for a EUR 380 million premium and took it from the European Union? Its subsidiary "Thomas COOK" through the European Union takes 380m euros to become Ministers. We in our shipyards - because we took EUR 200 million - closed them because the Germans closed them down. In one case, then, with the knife and watermelon, Germany is pressing Europe and giving it money from rich Germany and the poor Greece are closing down the shipyards, which for thousands of years has been our development. So you see that there is no Europe. In your mind there may be a Europe, but Europe of solidarity, of real Europe, of peoples and nations, of helping one another does not exist. Understood. It is a German Europe, a fascist Europe, a Nazi Europe of the German boot. That's the truth. I have given you only one example to understand the essence of things. Article 2 concerns the abolition of the NOME tender for PPC. Excellent: And this is where SYRIZA is responsible. They committed a crime, the private was getting a lower electricity price than it was coming out of PPC. This is how PPC went bankrupt, gentlemen. This deal that SYRIZA made was criminal and it was PPC's death. Of course, other criminal errors have been made in the past. There was no modernization, no subjugation, no high wages, a little work. All this, however, shows that the state is not always in place here, Mr Ministers. Why is the state not always here? State was SYRIZA, legislate. Why do you not continue the process here and change it? Change the process in Macedonia as well. Why does the state have only one state in Macedonia and does it not have another? So you see your contradictions? You know, I know a lot of people from New Democracy personally. I know them well. I know that they too vote without wanting to do so, because quite simply party discipline is beyond logic and national sovereignty and, above all, often logic. So if you are really New Democracy, liberal, a New Democracy that has a different profile, I challenge you now. Make an examination for PPC. Examination for PPC! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Hatzidakis said so, the Prime Minister said so. Examination for PPC! And let me say it anyway if you want. Make an examination for the first six months that you reported that Varoufakis and SYRIZA lost 100 billion. Why did the Prime Minister back off? Mr. Ministers, why did you go back? Was your money 100 billion? If you are, I repeat, what you're saying! Unless you're covered up, there's something else you don't say and there's an underground deal. There are reports on SYRIZA-New Democracy coexistence. I don't know if you're reading them. There are, my Minister, read the publications, 'government', 'fake', etc. I say this because there are many things that one might disagree with you. However, in Article 3 on the extension of renewable energy sources - although I disagree with that tale, Minister, with renewable energy sources - I will not say 'no'. But I'll say something else. Has anyone said here that the wind turbines only have thirty years of life? Do you know how to make wind turbines? Of rare earths. Do you know what that means? Toxicity, toxic environment. When they're done with the wind turbines? Have you made an agreement with the companies that they will go somewhere to save or somewhere to stay without creating environmental toxicity? I won't say the rest of the good-sensitivity things I see on the mountains, this windmilling abortion. I don't know if you like when you fly on planes to see all the Greek, enchanting mountains, the Agraves have something iron that goes back to produce energy. The point is, where are these wind turbines going if this story ends? Where are they going? Because if you look, they're made of rare earths, I repeat it once again. They're environmentally toxic. For the Greek, all right, your friend Latsis is always served anyway. The man has to be served. We've casinod him, we're giving him one, we're giving him the other, money doesn't have the man. He'll do what a known airport company did, get Greek state guarantee, get the loan, make an investment. That's how I become an investor, you know. If you give me 700m euros tomorrow morning, I can do whatever investment you want. I'm a businessman too, and I'm good. I have profitable businesses, but if you give me some 700 billion euros, I'll be the best. There isn't. These are the investments you bring. Funny, aerobic investments. This isn't an investment. As for the CEDEFOP, I'm going to say something that I believe in. I'm one of those people who believe that with repression you can't solve a problem. These children are sick and we must embrace them. Nor can we solve the problem by repressive measures nor by deterrents. It's all a matter of education and treatment. I've invested on the word education and lawsuit. We must build a serious education so that these children have ideals and values. But when I hear from a teacher, university talk about bats, I start and worry. So if our children are to be nurtured, socialized and incorporated into society otherwise, we will need neither defiance nor anything. They won't need drugs. Of course, I'd say here you have some contradictions. In Article 3, you say that the relevant Minister of Labour will exceptionally recruit himself, payments, until the recommendations of the EGE. Can I tell you something? Why invoke 441 emergency and emergency needs in your bill and do not invoke the 783 that is the emergency situation? The New Democracy now has a historic opportunity to preach our country as an emergency country. The Convention is 78 of the European Union, signed. We must declare Greece in a state of emergency because of the refugee problem, and that is where we can take measures. If Greece is declared in an emergency, because we are in emergency, we can take measures, we can ask for help. And I'm gonna tell you something you didn't do and I don't understand why you're doing this. Why does the Minister not go to Algeria, Morocco, Afghanistan, Pakistan and pressure the governments through the European Union to take this money and not Erdogan, who takes the money and blackmail us every day so that Afghans, Pakistani Pakistani and all other Algerians, Moroccans, can accept them back? They need money. Give money to them, directly. You're making the crime regulator of the refugee issue Erdogan, the illegal immigrant for the truth. Why are you doing this? Why are you so poor in refugee? That's inadequacy. You don't need a lot of brains. I'm going to the country where he comes from. The Afghan is an Afghan, I'm going to the Afghan government. Algerian, Moroccan, Somalus and 50-100 million a year will take them all back. They'll beg to get them back. billions are being given to the enemy of Greece, Erdogan, to blackmail us over. They're unbelievable. And before I go to that, I would like to say something about today's FINANCIAL TIMES publication. That's an arrogant impression. Did you read it? So you are blamed by this approved newspaper. Once I remember the current ministers, former New Democracy MPs went out and said that "New York Times" wrote "this" for SYRIZA, "FINANCIAL TIMES" says SYRIZA is bad. Today they tell you how to wash dirty money with your amendment yesterday. I'm filing it in the Minutes. 'FINANCIAL TIMES': They are calling you a dirty money wash with your amendment. You, the criminals of moral order, liberalism, and the honesty you invoked "FINANCIAL TIMES", today the newspaper tells you dirty money washing machines. I told you yesterday that this amendment is dirty and we are not voting on it. We knew something. You're helping some people. Some black money. That's unpleasant. That's what the newspapers used to call on you for their own traditional truth. He talks about money laundering, assets, etc. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now let's go to the other crime you're going to commit. Listen here, Olympia Street. Do you know her? He's been convicted of a cartel. And your Minister goes back to give back the particular Corinth - Patras - Pyrgos - Tsakonas, because there was Kalogricas, who did what he did, to Olympia Street. Who? At the cartel. You're unrepentant, and I'm honest with you. You have always served the pimps, as the former Prime Minister who hit the cartel said, and today you come to give the same cartel this job and you don't blame other contractors, whom I don't know and I don't care. What are you doing? What are you doing? To the cartel giving jobs? Are you all right? Are you all right? And that's not all. Go and put a toll on me at the Thessaloniki Oriokastro and the Asprovalta. Don't I pay traffic fees, Minister? Traffic charges in Europe - there is a Community directive that Greece has never implemented - means that I am paying for my car on our own roads. Why should I pay tolls? Tell me a European country which has tolls and traffic charges. If you find one, I'll say you're right. But unfortunately, you're not right. It's absurd what you're doing. The people of Oriokastro and Asprovala paying money to go on the road? Are you all right? Because I need a little more time, Mr President, I have the most disturbing thing in front of me. They're illegally entering Greece. That's called illegal immigration. Whatever you tell me is not refugees, they are not immigrants, but they are illegal immigrants. That's it. End of story, logic says that. Mr. Ministers and gentlemen of SYRIZA fear to see the truth. Denmark is not in the European Union? Am I making a mistake? Is it not a European country? He took an uninhabited island, and from today, he says, whoever is illegally entering Denmark will go to the inhabited island. When the Greek Solution says so, it is considered far-right, fascist. Oh, no! It makes sense. That's what logic says. They're illegal, we don't know who they are, we're gonna take them there to control them. Do this. Denmark's doing it. I'm not telling you about Japan and Australia. Denmark does it, it started it this morning. And that's not all. Spain is a European country? Spain applies a law. Do you know what it's called? ‘Gauss Law’. Law from 2014, I've got him in front of me. What measures does it have? You've made us prey to International Law! You've swelled our guts with International Law! So listen, so we can finally figure out what's going on around us. Spain is talking about the immediate expulsion of those arrested at the border as a prevention of illegal entry, not subject to the asylum provisions, and therefore does not consider such requests. Whoever's arrested at the Spanish border, direct expulsion. What do you think? Bring them to Greece, examine them, see and make them here Greek. Are you all right? Are you replacing the population of Greece? Is that what you're doing now? Let me get this straight. And that's all in Spain. I could analyze them, but I don't have time. Now, listen to the rest, there's more. I have something very nice in front of me. I have in front of me the Minister's answer - the SYRIZA has done this, Mr SYRIZA - for the costs of EUR 163 million for feeding. Listen to what scams these scams have done that story. They're crooks! It's the common criminal law scams! Listen! They had given 997,000 euros for two and twenty - seven thousand portions of another contest. For the same quantity they paid 170,000 euros in a competition directly. For the same amount again they paid other money, 240,000 euros. I don't understand that. Direct assignments EUR 163 million! Yesterday, Mr. Skylakakis told us that SYRIZA never checked medical and relief and your Minister said that we have given EUR 30 billion over the last five years for this story of refugee - illegal immigration. Who paid for it? SYRIZA, ME, YOU? The Greek people paid for it! Thirty billion! And the Minister told it at a press conference, 30 billion in six years!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u296	There's no that number!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u297	The Minister himself said so, Mr. Xanthi. Thirty billion!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u298	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u299	I don't know, the Minister said it! The Minister, Mr. Xanthi, the Minister of the New Democracy. If you don't like it, you can tell him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u300	There's no that number!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u301	To be 20 billion, to be 10 billion? It's not from your pocket or mine. The Greek people pay. He pays Ibrahim and Hassan when the Greeks go to the hospital and have no signs, he pays normally. He pays his meds and everything, if he doesn't have insurance! This is racism against the Greeks and many other things! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So let's close with this: do you know what the Minister said? Hospitals never recorded immigration and refugee expenditure! The Minister said it! The total financial burden was between 2016 and 2018 at 30 billion euros, my Mr. Xanthi. You were Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u302	Wrong! Thirty million might have been.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u303	Are you kidding us now? Thirty million in four years in medicine and hospitals? Where are you headed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u304	Nine billion is the country's public spending per year!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Xanthi, please! Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u306	The Minister came and tells us that in four years 30 million euros were spent on immigrants! Christ and God bless you! You're going to drive us crazy in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u307	Finish it, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u308	That's not possible, and I appreciate you as a human! So here we have your UN, the UN High Commissioner. Did you see them going to be commercials and say you get a 550 euro card every month only if you live in Greece? I put it in the Minutes, it's a UN document. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So what does the UN say? That Ibrahim and Hassan will only get 550 euros if they stay in Greece. He says they're going to Germany, they're not getting anything! If they go to Skopje, they won't get anything! It's like we've opened and we're waiting for you! And the Greek to receive a bonus, waits for the Minister - and I hear we have good news, good news - to give a little allowance. These are not reasonable things! These are unbelievable, really.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u309	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u310	And by closing tomorrow we will logically submit our proposal. But I'll tell you something very simple, so we can close down here. Today I was listening to the mayor of Minos desperately screaming. More easily - he said - we see Turkish planes than professors. Teachers arrive shortly before the end of the school year. The Minister of Education let us see it. The students in Chios are teaching a container lesson from illegal immigrants who don't need it. If this is called a government of the New Democracy serious, technocratic, then I have another perception of how the place can be governed. For us - I repeat - the Greeks are first, first Greece and then anyone else. And because you've filled Greece with Pakistanis, I show you this here. Yesterday the Ministry of National Defence sent a news that a Pakistani aircraft P-3 Orion was constantly violating Kastelorizo. And I ask you, my ministers. You filled Greece Pakistani. Pakistan is an ally of Turkey, they have signed a joint attack agreement. You're the ones who accept any Pakistani who comes in here. If the New Democracy and the Greek state were serious, he would not accept any Pakistani that his country is considered an enemy of Greece and an ally of Turkey. That is the lack of logic and seriousness. It's not extremism, it's far right, it's nothing else. It's logical! If we don't find the logic, we'll lose Greece, we'll lose the Greeks. And you may not have the government then - some others will be - but there will be no Greeks down here. If you want that, we don't want it. I repeat: First Greece, first Greeks! Learn to rule Greek, that's the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much. I shall now give Mr Ljupe, from the New Democracy, the floor for seven minutes. Mr. Apostle will be followed. Here you go, Mr. Lippi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill contains many good provisions that make structural interventions on several open issues. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] This bill provides for extensions of time-limits in a number of cases, such as the extension of up to 31-12 to regulate municipal debts. In this way more individuals and companies will be able to regulate by the end of the year. The forestry cooperative organisations shall be extended until 31 March 2020 to make the changes that have already been voted on in accordance with the number of their members and their statutes. Also, a significant improvement is foreseen in the training and modification of hospital agencies and in general the NPT of the Ministry of Health, by means of a joint ministerial decision and not by a presidential decree. In this way, a faster adaptation to the particular needs of hospitals is achieved, by the creation of new departments and changes according to medical cheques. The legislative act on measures taken following the collapse of the 'THOMAS COOK' is now ratified. We all remember that on 23 September one of the largest and oldest travel agencies was declared bankrupt. More than a thousand hotel units in Greece cooperated with this travel agency and suffered a serious financial blow. The government reacted immediately. Just two days after the company collapsed, it introduced the act of legislation on non-performance of the residence tax. Other support measures for enterprises and workers were then taken. In particular, VAT shall be suspended until 31-3-2020 for all firms affected. Workers need fewer brands - eighty instead of a hundred - in order to receive the unemployment benefit and they are also entitled to this allowance by a month more to compensate for the possible early termination of their work. Minister Besiropoulos publicly expressed the willingness to have further budgetary initiatives by the Government on financial aid, which we also look forward to with particular interest. Another important issue that is regulated by today's bill is the abolition of NOME auctions. These auctions, as everyone knows, which took place in order to reduce their market share, had lower prices for competing companies and eventually led PPC to have losses close to EUR 600 million. Another major issue was power exports through NOMEs that favoured our neighboring countries. According to PPC data, for each euro price difference between the Greek market and the exporting countries a deficit of EUR 3.7 million was created in the country's economic balance. Graphically it is like the entire production of a base unit of PPC used to give cheap electricity to neighbouring countries at the expense of the Greek economy, of course. So by abolishing the NOME auctions and the important initiatives of the Ministry of Environment and Energy enters a definitive end to one of the reasons that brought PPC into its current difficult economic situation. Today's bill makes key corrective interventions in the legal framework for the protection of the main residence. One of the fair and reasonable changes made relates to those who live for professional reasons in another region - soldiers, doctors, teachers - to be able to apply for the protection of their principal residence. There are co-ownership issues solved. When there are consortia, the arrangement will be made in proportion to each other’s percentage and if only one consortium applies, it may be subject to the arrangement and then switching back down against the other. Another important addition is in the case of divorces in a dimension. One of them can make the application. Where there is a guarantor for an in-depth regulation of twenty-five years, either the applicant or the guarantor shall not have exceeded the eighth year of his age after twenty-five years. All these changes essentially help to widen the number of people who now have the right to resort to this process in order to regulate their debts and save their principal residence. And I come to the question of the ERCF, for which great reactions have arisen over the last few days. No one degrades the great work that has been done for three decades and the serious role played by the JETD in the prevention, treatment and reintegration of dependents. The employees of the CEDEFOP are undoubtedly a pillar of the successful course of the centre. This remarkable route of the CECH and the people who manage it obliges us to ensure that the future of the treatment center of dependent persons is just as creative and efficient. But we cannot ignore the fact that in recent years there have been serious administrative and management problems. The JRC manages significant funds on an annual basis of about 20 million. The change in its method of administration is considered necessary, especially after the disclosures in relation to practices likely to reach the limits of legality. The report drawn up for the ‘PRODUCT’ programme records particularly worrying incidents. The report of the General Accounting Office of the State records many important problematic points in financial management, many direct assignments, no posting of financial orders to “DIAGY” for 2017 and payment orders without the name of the signatory. All this, of course, needs to be further investigated by those responsible. Counselling what we are supporting is the views of the founder of KETHE, Mr. Zafiridis, although he believes he should continue his self-government. Until then, however, there is a certain need for changes in the administration of the CEDEFOP. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I shall end, Mr President. As we all know, the board of directors is seven and is appointed by the Minister of Health. Under no circumstances do we have any degradation of the CERTE, as we have heard in the last few days. The role of the general assembly, in which, as we know, workers, members of treatment programs in the reintegration stage, members of the Parent, Friends and Honorary Members boards are involved, is significantly upgraded. The General Assembly undertakes a new role in the central body which draws up a strategic planning for therapeutic practices, education issues and rehab programmes. And of course, the workers will have a more active role.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u313	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u314	In conclusion, this bill gives immediate and decisive outlets to many problems. This is the role of the executive, but also our responsibility as a legislature. We will remain faithful to this commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u315	Before giving the floor to Mr Apostolos who waits long and long, the Secretary of State for the Interior will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. For a minute, Mr. Apostleu, your tolerance. I would like to make two clarifications on the provisions relating to the Ministry of the Interior and they are in the law-enforcement act, but also on the amendment, which has been tabled by a general number 84. For Article 18 of the draft law we are debating, there is a clarification of the qualifications that secretaries should have, not to take a year to retire and have not been convicted of fraud. A clarification is made in order to be in line with the Code of Municipal Staff. By Article 21, by way of mistake to municipal elections due to bureaucracy, the National Print Office, which is in fact working on the preparation of the elections, in particular as regards the extradition of election papers, pay special electoral allowances, so that this issue is resolved. In fact, the money had come a day after the election ended - one or two days later - in June 2019 Finally, for the amendment, Article 1 refers to which bodies special secretaries will be placed. There is also another article concerning the prolongation of debt regulation for the TAs on the confirmed debts of the citizens. An extension was granted until 31/12-2019. It will also include debts that will be confirmed by the end of the month in which we are going, in November. It is an opportunity for all citizens to regulate old debts to the municipalities, save a piece of increment. It's a very favourable arrangement. Incidentally, the municipalities will proceed to measures for the collection of money, so that there is no injustice to those who can and do not pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u317	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the diplomatic theory, after having been toured in the report by the Chamber of Deputies VENIZELOS and have been informed about the history of the building and the way in which this House is organized and how this House is operating, the President of the General Assembly, members of the International Secretariat, chairmen and rapporteurs of committees, all of the Members of Parliament of the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy, of whom I am a member and other colleagues of the Greek Parliament. The Greek Parliament welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] They are MPs from various Orthodox countries, twenty-five in the number, who are members of a very important organization, the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy. And, on its occasion here, a two-day secretariat was also visited by the House. And it is a great pleasure for me to be chaired at the moment and in the Greek Parliament. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting my position with the late amendment tabled by the Minister for Rural Development and Food under number 86 to serve a particular cooperative. It is unconstitutional, because the legislative power unequivocally calls into question the judiciary. More specifically, because it circumvents Decision 1968/2019 in the Council of State which was adopted a few days ago and which rejected the application of this cooperative against its solution, in accordance with the legislation in force. And with the amendment tabled by the Minister, it amends the law by making it easier for some to transfer the cooperative property to third parties, since their operation will no longer be governed by the cooperative authorities and Law 4384/2016. It seems that what the cooperative has achieved in his appeal with Mr Gerapetritis as a lawyer comes and overturns them with the Minister's amendment. Is it possible, Mr Ministers, when cases are lost, to amend the laws? So withdraw this amendment. And, of course, it shows in particular the way in which this Minister is thinking about dealing with the problems of rural areas. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I will particularly focus on my position in the articles on extensions of regulation in the forestry sector. The first, for the purpose of adapting forest cooperatives to the provisions of Law 4423/2016 and the second, for the extension to forest maps. I agree with the extension for cooperatives. But neither this semester nor other semesters will arrive, not only because nothing has been done so far, but because there is no way to do it. I would like to explain: let us take one of the necessary procedures within the new deadline. Participating members in the cooperative must acquire the status of a forest worker, i.e. a certificate of skill in forestry operations from the forestry service. How did we, as a government, implement this condition? For the past two eight months, we have been training in forest prevention five thousand unemployed in the paradoxes through a joint OAS programme, with the aim of having as many foresters as possible. What are you doing, even now that the forests have been instructed to implement the commitment of the certificate programme? You are not going to extend their employment and, unfortunately, when the next anti-nuclear period begins, we will not have the most necessary forestry work, which is prevention, those we are training for that purpose. Your responsibility is enormous. The Ministry of the Environment has shown no interest in the use of these people. I come to the second issue concerning forest maps. They have shown problems that are hidden under the carpet from the liberation of our country to date, problems relating to the forms, nature, uses of land and, indirectly, to the property regime. Of course it is of the utmost importance to draw up the forest maps, but the process has, to date, partially ratified the existing forests, which are also protected without maps, but has raised hundreds of thousands of problems which have not been dealt with in their entirety. The reasons are, basically, three. The first reason is the inability to support the relevant committees from the forest service that is completely declining. The second reason is the reluctance of the citizens to use the committees. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be understood by the farmer that the olive oil inherited from his grandfather or father is a forestry area and as such is subject to the presumption of public ownership. The third reason, the most difficult, is that it collapsed in the Council of State the way the problems were solved. All processes, from takeovers to settlements, were considered unconstitutional. The Minister for the Environment recently announced that his aim is to view and post forest maps in January 2020 and for the remaining 50% of the country, so that there are partially validated maps for all regions. The post is correct, because it highlights the problems. The question is that partial ratification avoids the solution, as is the current partial ratification, and you realise that it will take too many decades to do so. However, as the situation has been shaped after the decisions of the Council of State and in order to avoid the opportunity for the country to complete and ratify the forest maps, solutions need to be found. There are solutions. They want work, moderation and dialogue with the whole society, with the structures of the state and justice. For example, in the forested fields we can deport ownership from the form, since the public itself accepts that this area in 1945 was rural and therefore is not public. There was a specific arrangement from the government of SYRIZA in this direction, as was the proposal for regulation for the grassland areas of the islands and coastal areas. We can therefore, ladies and gentlemen, find solutions. We want the project - a milestone for our country to be completed, in order to obtain the basic tool that protects the environment, preserves public property and creates a clear horizon for anyone who is interested in investing in our country in clear terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr. Apostleu. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u320	In dentistry there will be more time, Mr President. A quarter. After the delirium of racist hatred and xenophobia, which we condemn and unfortunately continues without the Golden Dawn, let us come to the bill, which is in the same orientation as unfolding the government's policy to support capital, satisfying provocative and unambiguous needs of business groups in a number of areas and at the expense of society as a whole. Of course, along with the anti-linguistic measures, your doctrine goes "law and order", placing obstacles not only to the strike or the abolition of university asylum and the attack of MATs on protesting students, but "float" even collective forms of election and administration, such as the abolition of the self-government of the CITES. The violent and authoritarian way of enacting legislation by abolishing self-government and involving members and workers will never be accepted. There is an outcry and you know it, because the abolition is the first step towards the degradation of the current free and public area of treatment of dependencies in its direction of limiting unconditional and conditional access to services and privatising the management of the problem. The organization's self-employed is therefore linked to the logic of public and free care for their dependents and families regardless of race, nationality, sexual orientation, social order and income. A appointed board of directors will be accountable only to the nominated one, that is to say you are giving other samples of writing in the field of social policy that is further downgraded. To justify your deed, because they have risen up and condemn mass unions and clubs, you are slandering the self-government form and you are trying to incriminate the board of directors for existing problems that the JETHC itself has shaped into a finding and now you are bringing it up. You are using Mr Zafiridis against his remarks, but he does not agree with your abortion, and he does not save it, nor does the appointment of an independent head of authority. Of course, we know well that the act of legislation is integrated into a more general and long-term planning. Fifteen years ago New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, LAOS together voted that toxic dependence is a chronic self-inflicting disease and that this was heard in the Chamber. This policy is today more decisive both in funding and in orientation. The funding of the CEFD has recently been through the NSRF, i.e. short-term contracts, part-time employment, blocks, OAEDs, funding you don't know when to get it. Also, you cannot prevent when you release cannabis, which is a starting point for using drugs for 90% of addicts. The only sure thing is that the move to join a wider body or synergy in the name of pluralism of the treatment undermines the "hot" programs. Substituting policy has been used against coron and has failed. So we know that the government's authoritarian act of law-making has a multi-level economic and ideological aim: to strangle the CTEH by putting tombstones in the philosophy of rehab, blowing up the right of those who have at some point turned to rediscover the way to life. That you give it all to the capital and groups is seen in a challenging way in the case of the Greek. You are going to the point where you are giving the public spaces, the areas of general interest, which is unacceptable. And Mr Hatzidakis' question: 'But will they give homes without roads?' So, in the building cooperatives, the roads created belong to individuals and not to the municipality? Don't make fun of yourself, don't justify it. Of course, you voted together to privatize the Greek, i.e. to build a whole private city for very high incomes, a city away from meeting people's needs, as it is designed for casinos, marinas, shopping centers, hotels, skyscrapers. In this private city of six thousand acres, two and a half kilometres of coastline are privatised for the needs of the hotel areas and there will be no access for the inhabitants of the surrounding municipalities. Of course, I do not understand SYRIZA's objections. Since they voted, why is he now protesting? If there is, of course, any article or paragraph that seems positive for workers, it is for pigmeat, i.e. delays in the payment, which is not punishable. If, however, the workers have weaknesses, then they go overboard, they are in red loans and at high speeds, they are led to auctions. Many have been said about red loans and about the medicine the hundred and twenty doses. Really, how many people have access and what terms do you have? The only thing for sure is that it means the end of the era to protect the first residence, already from the previous SYRIZA government, and it seems that this is what you want to ensure. There is an estimate that in the three years 2019-2021 the decrease of red-denominated mass on the balance sheets of the banking groups will be at the height of 53 billion. The aim is convergence with the average in the European Union, which is 5% of all bank lending. That's why you use tools like a hundred twenty doses on leontoid terms. Yes, some, few will be served. But what about the rest of them? Disguised, therefore, you will continue with mass auctions in popular housing, with sales, with securitisations of problem loans to other investors, but also sustainable solutions to be provided by banks through restructuring. This was the request from the Greek Banking Association. That's what you're doing. In summary, therefore, the duplicate protection system left in the first place expires on 31 December of this year, based of course on the provision of the SYRIZA Government, which the New Democracy maintains in the framework of the Memorandum of Understanding. However, this is linked to successive cutters. So the conditions laid down for the facilitation arrangements are also to be met. Eventually the blackmail douche is tightening, the threats to mass outburst of popular households are escalating. So that's how it's done. The operation of the platform marks a discharge of the banks from time to time, and at the same time the Government of New Democracy comes to build on the acquisitions of the SYRIZA government in terms of the intensity of the repression against the working people's movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u321	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u322	Thus, what the SYRIZA government has legislated to carry out the auctions exclusively by electronic means and to legislate the self-prosecuting of offences and disrupting home peace against notaries are now being enriched by serious changes in the Criminal Code. So that's what you voted on. In other words, even for a symbolic occupation, the sentence of up to three years' imprisonment is provided for. In the people's hand, therefore, it is to put obstacles to this new attack on a cemetery, with a strong labour movement and a social alliance to meet modern needs. And I'll be done. We consider Mr Vorides' amendment unacceptable. It overturns a decision of the Council of State, because in the Eye there are the estates of the cooperatives. We're asking for his withdrawal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u323	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Voridis has been asking for the floor, but Mr Grigoriadis from Mera25 has been waiting for some time now. If Mr. Gregorydis wants to give him two minutes, that's all right. Otherwise, Mr. Gregoriadis will be speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u324	I have requested the floor before 18: 00. Mr. Voridis, how much do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u325	For two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u326	I'll give it to you with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. I also apologise for the speech, but I think that it is also useful for the course of the debate to clarify things. Firstly, I do not understand how it is granted to private property in cooperatives when what we do is to keep the cooperative alive. You can explain that to me why it's a magic thing you're saying now. If the cooperative is solved and cleared, its property will obviously be taken out of liquidation to the private. We are bringing an amendment to keep him alive. How exactly is it to private individuals? Don't go along because there's a killer in the original arrangement. Do not accede to this practice. Secondly, I heard about unconstitutionality. Does anyone have the courtesy to tell me what the unconstitutionality of the arrangement consists of? Tell me what article of the Constitution is being violated. I have heard that there is a decision by the JRC which, in fact, considers by a majority that the previous regulation was a constitutional one. Yes, sir. Others. Does the previous arrangement mean that the present is unconstitutional? Who's taking these off? Where do you think about them? And we're going a little bit. In other words, the position here in the Opposition is that they must lead to a solution of an association of agricultural cooperatives, with a turnover of 2 million, with workers who, after being made redundant, will be fired, in order to support an amendment of the last hour that did not give this Union the possibility of either a second to comply with the law, without having been provided in advance that if the ratification were not complied with, it would be the solution. And do we have to welcome this and say they did well? And what does this amendment say? But allow the Union to comply with that original arrangement. But give her the time and also tell her what the penalty is if they don't comply. They hadn't. And they came and did so by way of a parliamentary amendment, without giving it - I stress - no possibility. Do you want this Parliament, that is the position of opposition, to consent to the dismantling of a legal person? Why, if you'll excuse me, that's exactly what Mr. Apostleu said. It is the private disputes that are now calling for the solution of the cooperative, which have, in fact, been brought to judgment in justice. The losers of the civil dispute got this case straightened out to bring the cooperative to a solution. Protecting the cooperative and apology from above? And instead of silence, SYRIZA, all right, they were your friends, they weren't your friends, they got you, you got an understanding, all right. Let us do it as we should. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u328	Thank you. Mr. Apostle has the floor for twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u329	Mr Vorides did not reply to the question that there is a specific decision a few days ago of the Council of State, and that decision you come and overthrow it through the withdrawal of the law that we have implemented in this decision. So the horror of your activity is that you ignore that there is this decision and you are actually coming and overcovering, not just bypassing the judgments of justice. So, then, I don't understand, from there on, why you're objecting to one thing that's obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Apostle...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u331	...tomorrow in the Council of State one after another...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Apostle, we understood the question. We understood it. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u333	I am pleased that you have proposed the law as a field of conflict with me, I am pleased about that. I ask again, in order to agree with our legal systems: the decision of the S.H.E. You're asking me to respect what he's judging?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u334	Yeah, but you'll have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u335	It's rhetoric, you shouldn't answer because I answer. What's he judging? It judges the constitutionality or otherwise of the previous arrangement. Yes, sir. And she judges it by a majority of the Constitution. Because a constitutional provision has been drawn up, does it mean that it's a good policy? That's what you answer. Constitutional. Does it mean that I cannot make any other adjustment to this provision, which would regulate this matter differently? And if I judge it differently, my arrangement suffers from constitutionality? That's why I'm telling you. The law to know the whole thing. You have been given a decision, you have not even read it about its content, because I have studied it in detail. I saw it, they brought you in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u336	You answered, Mr. Voridis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u337	They brought you in, but what they didn't tell you, because this is the tampering, it's how this serious injustice will be solved, which has been done and which has unfavorable consequences. And you insist on this while it is clearly wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u338	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u339	But he writes it in, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u340	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u341	Please, no. There won't be a panel. Mr. Gregoriadis will be speaking. Mr. Apostle, please. Here, Mr Gregoriadis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much for being calm and consensual. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr Ministers, I wanted to ask you, 'FINANCIAL TIMES', do you read at all? If you have not read their current site, I would like to inform you that this infamous anti-powerful, well-known communist Khmer Red Site in an extensive article today says that the Mitsotakis Government is preparing to amputate big bankers and big-fashioned banks, who are involved in bank scandals and irregularities, with photographic law. It's an article, take a look at him, and we'll talk about it again tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, for the past three months, we have been systematically asking you, we have been inclined to warn you not to continue the diligence of our Parliamentary Republic, using the Greek Parliament in this unacceptable way. If you have not understood this, we are telling you that for over four months now it has been you who have been ruling this place and that all decisions on all the procedures that are being followed at all levels are absolutely in your hands. I say this because it now sounds like a small child's excuse to constantly remind us of the courtesy already brought to the parliamentary procedures by you. And if you can address the Civic Opposition, telling it every time it resigns to you that it started the entire curse, and therefore, as some of the ministers of the late Andreas Papandreou would say, "he is not entitled to speak", we of Mera25 are very afraid that we are entitled and resented. Our Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is very clear. Please stop interfering with it at last. If you want to be called, if not the perfect ones, at least of the excellent ones, finally find out that the perfect ones can never be trespassers. As far as the ERCF is concerned, as the song says, the words are unnecessary. The entire community of dependent people and their relatives, as well as the rest of the Greek society know very well, better than me, that the CECH has been the absolute standard of operation, management, economic and human management and efficiency of a non-profit-making public body. Anyone who refuses this or disputes it is simply - let me say - out of the place and time. The cause of the rares, not to say the only ones about the Greek reality, of the achievements of the KETHEA, is precisely the one that is abolished today by the act of legislation of the Ministry of Health, i.e. self-employed. These people for thirty-two years now have not been abused by any drachma, nor by any euro. Do you know why? Because most were themselves dependent or relatives and friends of dependants and feel in their skin and in their hearts what dishonour it is to benefit in any way from such a drama. For the same reasons, they are well known, which is served by their institution, but also how these services will be the most effective. For the same reasons, they do not accept all these years to keep hours on offer, they do not in any way get rich, but they do not even get paid out of this offer, which is why, for so many years, there has never been any mention of the slightest scandal in the CITES, except for - apologise for the expression - of the fact - of the fragmentation of a finding, which you have brought us half in the House, as we learned a little later, from the people of CITES, a finding, the other half of which you have concealed or concealed from you by those who have given it to you. In particular, a conclusion which is the same unreserved proof of freedom of movement and the possibility of publicising those who have drafted it. Can you imagine, for example, being ordered and finally writing such a finding from CEDEFOP Board? Of course not. Because, as soon as a corresponding conclusion on CEDEFOP would be made public, the entire CEDEFOP board should be brought to justice immediately. Something tells me that all the fraudulent officials who would have been responsible for investigating and drawing up such a finding would have disappeared long ago. I should like to point out here that, as the chairman of the board of directors of the CEDEFOP himself told us, the audit that has necessarily resulted from this finding has not yet been completed, because the finding is recent, as you know, and that is the only reason, which has not already been given responsibility to any involved. Now, now, for no reason at all, after thirty-two years the self-government of the CDEH is being lifted and you are now taking the responsibility of defining the President and the Board of Directors themselves with the reasonable confession, I admit, that a state cannot, in white, provide so many millions of euros to a body without controlling where they go. Logical argument, but with a small hideout: From payment of CTEIs, as clearly stated in its statute, two people representing the Hellenic Republic, the state, are firmly within its board of directors to check on behalf of the state how the CEFI manages these millions. Objection is falling apart. But finally, let's see who decides and checks where this great money is going. Memories come back! Let us first remember what your government's binary doctrine is, authoritarianism - I am sorry to say it - and centralism. A minister, as always, will check where the money goes, which, as always, will be controlled by the Prime Minister. So the Prime Minister himself takes the final responsibility. And let me say with a slightly humorous mood - don't get me wrong, and don't get upset, I'm really saying it with a humorous mood - that I'm already beginning to imagine our multi-priced Prime Minister changing roles and passing through the uniform who cuts off bar calls at nights for illegal smoking and the next morning in this nurse's white booze, which he himself does - the way he only knows - all the dependents in this country. And I am talking about the way he only knows, because in the case of dependent people, who were prevalent in the ASE, seeking out their dose, which, incidentally, would have been the state, within clean hospitals, to provide them with the treatment chosen by our Prime Minister, and the doctorate who finally brought them, is that now they are engaging, always agonizingly seeking their dose, in the contribution of the roads Chalcodil and Liosia. So we warn the Prime Minister himself that, as in all cases of non-profit-making bodies where the state decides to put his hands on, that is to say, to take out the experts to put their own, the risks of corruption, indifference and mismanagement are multiplied geometrically, as modern experience has shown us. And if, Prime Minister, to date, even a euro was lost by the CECH - and what a strange and unusual one, thirty-two years now, no one has been lost! - No one could give up on you as it was self-interested. From tomorrow morning when you'll command it, you'll be accountable for any damage. And I'm very afraid that the first damage he's going to come will unfortunately not be economic. It will be human injury or if you prefer damage to human beings, to our fellow humans. Because when we remove the experts to the 'equitables', the scientific experience of so many years is lost, but most importantly, human relations are lost, relationships of confidence between the managing therapists and the healers. Relations that took years to build up. That is why this damage - which is in direct danger of causing - is a loss of incalculable value. Prime Minister, especially for the CTEH, and I hope this is the first and last time I have to do this - I beg you to reconsider. You will cut off the sun and immerse all these people, who were first beginning to feel a little light on their cheek. You will show disgrace deep and unrighteous to these rare other people, the volunteers, the governors, the nurses and the doctors of the CEDEFOP. And since I was extremely fast and have some more time, I will read you a little article that recently published a Sunday paper and wrote it. I don't do it because I want to read it again. I'm doing this because I want to pay tribute to the Greek women who are involved in this article. It is very short, just three pages. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall use my dentistry, Mr President. A few days ago the well-known to all of us for ten years ago repetitive, long-lived and grim death spear of our country was finally broken for even one day, even for a few minutes. It was like our country tried and finally managed to take a great breath to continue immediately after the sad and struggling end without ending it to the absolute deadlock, in which it has been pulling out for years. It was like the last person in the stadium and stuffed like a turkey with cortisone, so he could show a whole living, cancerous patient standing on his feet for a moment, claiming completely unexpected to dance his last tango. And he did great for a moment. They were all ten girls. A small portion of 'global subjects', as the mayor of the area said, where the parade took place. A small portion of "global subjects", who decided to parade in front of us as relaxed soldiers, like soldiers who have now been able to carry out orders and have just decided to mock them. And they mocked at the same time, but for ever all the orders and executioners of this world. All of us who have been now ten years, if not for centuries, parade our own death. We are relentlessly roaming the left and now the last right, having achieved the inconceivable: in all these years of our epitaph's roaming, one moment not to rest, to continue our planned path towards absolutely nowhere, while - as clearly these nice girls have already informed us - we have, in the meantime, the absolute nothing. The question to all of us is simple: will we continue not to live? Are we going to continue our mechanical walk? Or are we finally going to decide to resist? They know that themselves - you know - it's hard. They know why it was necessary, to make us this gift, to overcome the embarrassment of the moment, to overcome the embarrassment you were expecting to experience the reaction caused by your action in the heterogeneous crowd, their authorities and their grand ceremonies, the mayor. They know, because they had to stand up against the possibility of risking to face the consequences of the law. Well, they know it's hard. But they know even better that it's not impossible, because they did it at the time. And yet there is another group of people who know it well, because they are doing it thirty-two years now, since 1987 that they built with their souls and their hands, that CEDEFOP systematically resists everything that is small in our world and not by the surplus, but by their laxity. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] And now that after all these years, all of us small-blooded soldiers are stealing their homes and showing them the way out, you know what? - they won't even show us their anger. All we have seen, ladies and gentlemen, in the committees, was their tears. And after we saw them, you know what we're gonna do? We will continue on our way, because we are from the homeland of normal, predictable, excellent. You girls again came from other countries, the homes of the unnecessary, unforeseen, living, so thank you very much, our little girls, for trying to save our honor. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u343	Thank you very much, too. The State Secretary, Mr Arabatzi, has requested the floor. I would ask her, however, to understand why we have some colleagues in the Chamber from too early. It's almost 16:00.. Thank you very much, Mrs. Undersecretary. I would like to give the floor to the colleague of the New Democracy, Mr Kotso for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the last passage, which my colleague, Mr Merra25 read, I would like to recall that on 28 October we are celebrating and honoring those who carried out orders and fought in Pindo, in order to prevent fascist regimes, to keep our country up. And if they were to go like undisturbed soldiers, deregulated, you can be sure that today's future of Europe would not be what we have. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why little honour, little respect for those who were buried at those heights, who returned to the disabled, who gave their lives, went through hardships, so that we today have the opportunity to say what you say freely, unregulated and without censorship. And, in any case, that is the answer to whether we need asylum at university today, as they used to mean. Obviously today it has also proved in this Chamber that we have full freedom of speech, full freedom of movement of species, full freedom of movement of knowledge, and probably not full freedom of movement of immunity, molotovs, shorts, helmets or anything else that some are trying to justify as an educational part. After the victorious outcome, ladies and gentlemen, of the elections to the New Democracy, we were called upon to take the leap in the future, to make a race, so that the country will come out of the stagnation in which you had taken us. After heavy interventions and critical bills we have covered a great deal of distance to the marathon of improving the everyday life and living of our fellow citizens. We are pleased to assure Greek women and Greeks that they can look forward to the future with more optimism. But hard work continues and this comes to confirm the bill under discussion. The government, sharing the sensitive social groups, which the years of the crisis have lost much of their income, comes to broaden the protection of the main residence, which you know what residence means to the conscience of the Greek and Greeks, and especially to the most vulnerable households. And that is clearly a message that needs to be passed on to society as a whole that we, as a New Democracy, have come to solve social inequalities, social injustices and not to condemn ordinary tax mortgages. That is why they are allowed to apply for protection of the entire residence and those who live in a leased property within the regional unit and are involved in civil servants, teachers, security bodies, who know that many times they are also single-wage and are forced by reason of their work to be in another area than that they live in, burdening their family income. We also give the possibility of protecting the entire residence with the request of one of the joint-owners. For those who are divorced, for those who are co-owners, you know what it means to have this complexity and often not allow the application to be lodged. And, of course, we exempt PPC from the toxic NOMEs, from these incredible auctions, which sold PPC's current below the value of big businessmen who often didn't even give it to Greece, in order to get it out at low prices and burden PPC with hundreds of millions of euros, sinking it even more into the anonymity and being on the essence of a time bomb, which the current government received, ready to explode in its hands, ready to explode in the hands of Greeks and Greeks with unforeseeable consequences if PPC was to call. And, fortunately, thanks to the obscene efforts of the Minister, but also of the government as a whole, this bomb was unsecured. With these interventions, we want the Greek citizens to understand and in the most distant village of Greece that we are standing next to them, so that they do not feel that the state does not stir up the difficulties, which they face and remain in their areas and protect their first residence, which the circumstances have also taken so hard, the economic difficulties of the last decade have forced them not to be able many times to defend it. And that is why the regulation, which comes for heating oil, distinguishing the municipal compartments from the municipality, is in the right direction. I will only give you one example. In the six municipalities of Carditsa, the two are just mountain municipalities and are entitled to the allowance, the three - Mousakius, Carditsa and Sofadon - are not mountain municipalities. But they have too many mountain apartments, municipal apartments that reside poor and helpless people, who are not entitled to the heating allowance because they belonged to a municipality that was not designated as mountain. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people understand when we politicians are next to him and then just he is next to us and supports us and supports us. So, escaping from the pitfalls of the past, the government shows us sensitivity to all those who lifted the burden of the crisis on their shoulders and the forthcoming tax bill follows some axes that will give additional breath to taxpayers and businesses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In summary, I could mention tax relief, etc. As time is pushing, however, and we have been delayed and many colleagues are looking forward to taking the floor, I would like to make a reference to his special homeland, Karditsa. According to ELSTAT's data, Carditsa Prefecture is the last in per capita income in the country. It is 9,870 euros below the country's average income and it is evident that the decline is taking place in recent years in agricultural income in our country and in particular in Carditsa, which is extremely rural.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Comrade, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u346	That is why I believe that the government should take great interest in and give an additional attention to the areas that have been observed to demolition of their income, to attach great importance to the people of the countryside, to the people who keep live modern Thermopoils, who keep Greece alive, the countryside of Greece, protecting, strengthening and breathing to the people of labor, to the people of the earth, to the people of the countryside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u347	I will now give the floor to Mr Prussakis from New Democracy and immediately thereafter to the State Secretary for Rural Development, Mrs Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u348	Madam President, because there is an unreserved obligation and I am immediately afterwards, if the State Secretary agrees, could I precede it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u349	That is what I am trying to do, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as I got to the Chair, and thankfully, the State Secretary was very positive, as was the Minister before. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u350	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government continues legislative interventions aimed at rationalising, protecting the public interest, supporting the Greek citizen in need, but also protecting and strengthening entrepreneurship. We are giving an extension for the submission of applications for regulation by the end of the year, of certified debts of natural or legal persons to municipalities. The debtors have the opportunity to respond to unfavourable obligations, created in the years of the crisis, and the municipalities also have the opportunity to increase their revenues. The citizens of the country and, in particular, Evros, have been hit by the invasion of the deporting government and need measures that will enable them to cope with dignity in their obligations. The improvements made by the Ministry of Finance to protect the first home are also important, so that most of the beneficiaries can join the protection regulations of the law. We give more and more Greeks the opportunity to apply to protect their main residence and to those who live in a leased property within the regional unit in which their main residence is located. We thus give great breath to categories of citizens who are forced to live in another city because of their work. I stress, as of paramount importance, the regulation, which relates to the attempt to resolve and further prevent the spread of PPC's economic sizes. With SYRIZA's government's L.4389/2016 PPC itself allowed its competitors to buy electricity at a price below the cost with losses of EUR 600,000,000 over the last three and a half years. Really, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, who will pay the cost of EUR 600,000? As far as our tourism is concerned, the exemption provided for by the requirement of a residence tax for businesses, which had been paid for by the company 'Thomas COOK'. This is a hand of practical support from the Government in the Greek company linked to the tourism product, in order not to sink from the bankruptcy of the known company. Also, a change in the administrative model of the Centre for the Treatment of Degraded Persons, known as the CEFD, is made with a view to ensuring transparency, proper management and supervision of financial resources. Ladies and gentlemen, under this law I tabled an amendment, which my colleagues in Thrace have signed, concerning the excellent natural beauty and nationally important area of the river Evros delta. The previous government, despite my timely parliamentary interventions, has slipped and lost sight of many of them, and has not taken the legislative action in time. The result is to reach a step before the construction of the shells found in the river delta, but also to pay the fines. With the amendment we have asked for a further two-year extension, provided for by Law 4495/2017, until the regulatory presidential decree is adopted, which will provide a final legislative solution for the status of the use of the Evros delta, as well as the other functions in this national park, the destination of aquatic birds and not only. Today the Evros River Delta with the three lakes, which can become productive, is a sanctified place and takes the importance and value of it. We remain consistent as a party, but also as a government in our commitments to work for the good of our citizens and faithfully serve our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased and glad that the government with the competent Minister, which 'lighted me' the tabling of this amendment shortly after second thought and drawing, has decided to include this amendment for reasons of lawfulness and politicians as a normal provision for lawless law, which is submitted to the Greek Parliament tomorrow by the relevant Ministry of the Environment and Energy, the procedure of which will be completed in the next fortnight. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary work is fully in line with the popular feeling at both local and pan-Hellenic level. I have just received a letter of congratulations from the Greek Hunting Confederation, which expresses the satisfaction of two hundred and fifty-four hunting clubs in the country with a hundred seventy thousand hunters, who are, as we know, the guardians of ecology, but also the balance in nature. I therefore welcome our parliamentary action twice, because it prevents the existing covered areas from being demolished in the River Evros delta and the prevention of the fines being paid to their holders. Before closing my speech, Madam President, because it is of particular importance that the letter of the Hunting Confederation of Greece should be tabled for the Minutes of Parliament. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastasios Prussakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Kefalidou from the Change Movement for seven minutes, and immediately after that, the State Secretary, before going to the colleagues, has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Madam President. Thank the Minister, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the originality of today's debate is not that we are discussing an MDG. The originality of this debate is that we are discussing two provisions of the Ministry of Education, one of Article 9 and one amendment at night and until now, five months after the government has taken over, there has been no comprehensive draft law from the Ministry of Education. Whatever provisions they've been through are inside other, irrelevant bills. And you know, these were used to the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, and the New Democracy was stigmatizing them then I remember, as an official opposition, but it seems that the syndrome of leg legislation, Parliament's surprise, legislative work through MDGs and amendments is sticking to it. But let me, with all seriousness, tell you that it is not a tactic that honors someone. And it does not honor the leadership of the Ministry of Education either. It also exposes the Prime Minister, who, as leader of the opposition officer, pointed out - and rightly so - this method applied by Mr Tsipras and his government. In other words, I remember how serious we have all heard the first legislative initiative of the government, which has symbolically been about correct legislation and is unfortunately degraded by you themselves every day. Is it fear or urgency? However, we in the Change Movement stress for a millennial time that the issues of education are not offered for genomes and fragmentary legacy. We need educational policies that will not be overthrown the next day and policies with long-term planning and, as far as possible, consensus. That is why we insist - and we will say it at every opportunity - that the National Education Council should be reconstituted. As you can see, I will speak exclusively on education, because here we have Article 9, which every paragraph of it is also a different piece of legislation, it is also a different regulation. And I will accept that there is a need to regulate issues of urgent nature, because the previous government has managed to create many problems in the field of education in four and a half years. The general remark is that here we have heterogeneous issues, arrangements and arrangements, but they tend to create a distorted picture. And we are finally waiting for integrated intervention by the Ministry, because through these fragmentary solutions so far and the serious shortcomings we see, distortions in the area of education continue. So, first paragraph. We have the resetting of the time interval of the post-training school year program. It normally started from the beginning of the school year and was until 31 October. He comes and changes and becomes November 15th. It is quite natural that the joint ministerial decision has been delayed too much. It was only signed on 22 October and without this decision starting any of the apprenticeship contracts. However, I would like to ask the government a question with regard to midwives. You know he was a four-year term. SYRIZA for purely voting reasons came and turned them into three years. And you know very well that graduate parities are at risk over three years. I would also remind you that the four-year duration had a meaning. Most of the students were workers, which means they didn't have the time to follow the timetable for this and was extended to the fourth year. The question is, the school year has started since September. The Ministry of Education's proposal in relation to edu­cation is something we are still waiting for. Paragraph 2: Procedural matters. There had to be some kind of PPE grant, both from the Kapodistrian and the Aristotle University, in order to be able to proceed with actions, work and supplies relating to the examinations carried out in November concerning the state certificate of language. Fortunately, the solution has been found through the state budget to cover this heading. And we shall proceed to paragraph 3. I'm telling you, they're completely different issues between them. There was a lot of talk about the four hundred seventy-five students of the former Department of Technology, Fisheries and Aquaculture of Annex Mundania. You know these people were literally in the air. They weren't written anywhere, and the system couldn't trace them anywhere. The question we have tabled to the Minister for Education has never been answered. So the matter comes today to be settled, and these people will be transferred to the respective section in Messolong. What do they look like? That the alchemys of the previous government have indeed mined the scenery. But a proposal from the government on how we will come to deal with the whole question of higher education in universities another five months later, we have not seen. Paragraph fourth of Article 9 of the bill. So here we have the big issue, which we will live in the next few days, with the student's transfer. The previous government in its haste did not think that it should replace the meeting of the Presidents of the TEI and let it exist within the institutional body dealing with the subject of translations. At last, a little seriousness would help all of us more. I would also like to say a little bit about the subject of the amendment, which concerns the regulation of the recruitment of special-educational teachers. It's these four and a half thousand that we're waiting to see how they're going to be completed. You know, here is a moral and institutional contradiction. These recruitments will be carried out on criteria that the government had denounced when it was a military opposition. We continue as a Movement of Change to say that it is a great injustice for the substitutes who served in the last of Greece, on the basis of a notice that actually runs on the Gavroglou Law, to be quantified in a way that is zeroed, due to the excessive premium on the candidates' formal qualifications. And now look at the theater of irrationality. The current government has committed itself to bringing about a legislative change in this law, but it is moving on to its implementation and, on the other hand, it tells us that it is preparing to change it. That's what we're talking about. Of course, we cannot say that it is not a positive development, the fact that it has finally been understood that we cannot proceed to recruitment - not just in special education, wherever - without any organic posts of teachers being identified and without the corresponding budget appropriations being allocated. Of course, that was the normality of SYRIZA - ANEL. Now the establishment of organic positions is the only solution that the recruitments can do, even though there is no excuse for doing so and there is no excuse for doing so. We will support this amendment, because students with special learning problems and needs cannot wait any longer. We're positive. We expect, however, from the leadership of the Ministry of Education to be more serious, more wise, dialogue on the issues which we all regard as national issues and top priority. I remind you we're all judged. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u353	Thank you. Mr Arabatzis, State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, has the floor, since I thank her for her patience. Immediately after the speech the Minister will have, Mr. Panayotopoulos. And we will normally go to the list, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the ratification of acts of legislative content, which resolve many important issues, has unfortunately been held in an atmosphere of artificial political tension, which is attempting to impose the Civic Opposition to hide the absence of its positions and proposals. However, no falsified picture can change the reality, because in reality, on the one hand, we have a government which consistently and firmly implements its pre-election commitments to the economy, to the security of citizens, to the fight against lawlessness, to the liberation of universities of all kinds. On the other hand, we have SYRIZA, who runs two boats trying to appear as an institutional power party and on the other hand as a party of the 3% rhetoric. The 3% rhetoric that applauds those who break padlocks in universities and unfortunately legalises the attacks of the "Rubic" on political offices. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA your behaviour, unfortunately, is boldening the political calm and democratic normality that our country needs as much as our country ever needs. I move on to the bill, where there are three provisions on primary production, on aquaculture, in particular, on forest cooperatives, on forest maps, without, of course, forgetting the provision for tackling major climate change. The noteworthy thing is that these sectors, with different structural characteristics, have a basic common feature. Their very big social print. Because, ladies and gentlemen, both fish farming and the exploitation, of course, of forest wealth are always developed mainly in remote, inappropriate, mountainous and coastal areas, that is to say, areas where there are usually no alternative sources of income. Thus, their value, which is a great one, is increased if it is taken into account that 12 000 workers, of different specialties, are employed directly or indirectly in the aquaculture sector and that there are two hundred and fifty forest cooperatives with dozens of members of each. What, then, did the SYRIZA government do with the so-called social person? Instead of contributing to creating more jobs and increasing income, it has made a huge brake on aquaculture and has attempted to leave forest cooperatives without honey, actually leading them to the paddock. But what does it mean in aquaculture? It means brake to interested, foreign and Greek investors, brake to ten million euros investment, brake to new jobs. In order to understand and those who are probably unaware of what Greek aquaculture means, we summarise the following: Greece is second to the European Union in terms of the volume and value of fish farming. 80% of our Greek production is exported, I refer to popular fish, such as cigarette and sea bass. 2017 was our first agricultural exportable product, surpassing the flagship that is Greek olive oil. Twelve large investment funds have shown interest in engaging in the sector, which is in a restructuring phase, while the operational fisheries and sea development measures have put in place investment projects totalling EUR 111 million. However, as you can see from the point of view of extending aquaculture and promoting investment, the most important thing is to ensure the necessary vital area. This was launched with the specific framework of spatial planning and sustainable development for aquaculture, which I recall was approved in 2011, it was necessary to assess and institutionalise the requests for the establishment of the organised aquaculture development areas, namely the aquaculture development compartments, so-called PDOs. Of course, SYRIZA's outgoing government did not assess the spatial planning until 2016 and while extending until November 2019 for these PDOs, one of the twenty-five requests submitted approved only one. I repeat from twenty-five, only one. Therefore, the two-year extension, which we are giving, is absolutely justified and necessary for their development. But we, ladies and gentlemen, do not give any extensions that we let them go to the rain. On the contrary, the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of the Environment have set up an Interministerial Staff Committee for two months, which will, on the one hand, draw up the specifications of the contractor for the assessment of spatial planning, on the other hand, and, above all, work towards simplifying, decommissioning and speeding up the procedures for the approval of these water-farming development chambers. As in aquaculture, in forest cooperatives, your government put the cart in front of the horses. In 2016 you voted for a new institutional framework for these cooperatives and without having launched secondary law, i.e. the prerequisites that the law itself put upon you, you invited the governors to comply with a substantially regulable regime. All of this today is healed by the extension until 31.3, while with another provision in the recent bill, I invest in Greece, which we voted, we eliminated the distortion of the incompatibility that you had brought and inherited us, incompatible that effectively excluded from members of the cooperatives of timber, their spouses, and even their relatives I grade. To conclude, with your tolerance, Madam President, the bill provides - and rightly so - for the establishment of a Scientific Committee on Climate Change. I would like to point out once again that agriculture is the sector, which is most affected by any of climate change, at the same time, as the so-called European Green Agreement - the so-called Green Deal - has recently announced by the President of the Ursula Von Der Lyen Commission, creating a series of new obligations for our farmers. Our view is that in these new strategies farmers and farmers must be part of the solution and not part of the problem. That is why we need to shape these policies together for their benefit. After all, farmers are the first to face up to the negative effects of climate change and we must support them in this green transition with innovation, the promotion of new technologies through organic agriculture and the bio-economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrangements that I have mentioned, and I call on you to vote in favour, are not one of those which might give headlines to the newspapers. But it is of crucial importance for strategic sectors of our economy, as well as for local communities in much of the other, the forgotten and the neglected until yesterday. Because the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has received a strong mandate from the citizens, both for major reforms and for investments and for improving the business environment as a whole, while forging the necessary social cohesion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. Mr. Nikos Panagiotopoulos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Madam President, I may not even need seven minutes. I am just saying that I am pleased to bring to the House today the amendment from the Ministry of Finance, but in particular the third provision from the three amendments to this amendment, which concerns the Ministry of National Defence, with a general number 79 and a special 13, which has to do with the greatest, central importance, I would say for our Air Force and national defence as a whole, a programme for upgrading the F-16 in the category of Viper, which is the most advanced version of this aircraft in the world today. I believe that this amendment is the first legislative intervention to come to the attention of this House. They will also follow in November, of course, the rest of us, namely the amendment of the Convention on the upgrading of the F-16s, and in particular of what it has to do with its programme of benefits, after much advancement, I would say exhausting work on the matter with the political and military leadership of the Ministry of National Defence and, of course, the contract, which will actually take off - to use this cadet for the Hellenic Air Force term - the capabilities of the Greek industry in our country. As you know, on April 30, 2018, by decision of the Ministry of National Defence, the sixth amendment of this transnational agreement was approved with the United States Government of about 1.5 billion, which concerns a delivery by the US Government to the US Ministry of Defence of the project to upgrade F-16 fighter aircraft and is implemented through the US foreign military sales system, the so-called FNS. In the context of this transnational agreement, the US Government has entrusted the implementation of this programme to the company ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’, the manufacturer of F-16, and furthermore, at the request of the Greek side, it is envisaged that all the operations of the aircraft should be carried out in Greece, the EAB. For this reason, on the US side, it was set as a prerequisite - and it was accepted by the previous government too - to maintain the initial price of about EUR 1.5 billion and the universal exemption of the VAT and customs programme. That was the prerequisite. Exemption from VAT may be granted under the legislation in force - L.2859/2000 - because imported goods are part of the inward processing arrangements, which ends with the delivery of these aircraft to the Air Force. The exemption from customs duties is possible with the integration into the inward processing arrangements for which the Greek companies will ensure that they are involved as sub-producers. Just a similar issue and just a similar legislative arrangement had also been put in place for the launch of the programme of upgrading the aircraft P-3, the naval cooperation aircraft of the Navy, which are governed by the same regime. It has been resolved by similar amendments such as the one we are bringing to the vote today, which was incorporated into Article 56 of Law 4487/2017. Today we do exactly the same thing. The proposed amendment effectively exempts the Greek companies, which are participating in the F-16 upgrading programme, and in particular EAB from the obligation to give the public guarantee letters on import duties and taxes, the payment of which is suspended for as long as imported materials and equipment are subject to a special saving or outward processing scheme as I said to be re-exported. Finally, I would like to clarify these once they have been introduced by the Greek companies, whether they will be used for the manufacture of other materials that will ultimately be placed on aircraft or placed as it is, without further intervention, beyond any technical checks, on aircraft, so that they will ultimately be exempted from the obligation to pay taxes and duties. Why does this amendment have to be passed? Because the non-exemption of the Greek companies from the obligation to make guarantees to the Greek State would increase their financial costs, which would in turn be passed on to the US company which implements the contract. This, in turn, would increase the total cost of the transnational agreement - we would pay more. And, in the case of ODA, you know that there is currently no liquidity, i.e. the possibility of establishing guarantees due to the company's lack of liquidity. Therefore, the non-approval of the pushed amendment will in fact result in blocking the start of the required work in the ODA, and therefore it would still lead to significant delays - because we have already delayed and recall the last attempt to pass this amendment was in March 2018 and since then nothing - to the development of the upgrading programme that is as I have told you extremely important for the operational capabilities of our Air Force. Therefore, and soon, according to the programme for the implementation of the programme, I will be joining to upgrade - I would put it within a period of two months - the original aircraft at the premises of the ODA, in order to start the prototype upgrading work because it is complicated with many technical parameters, as you can see. All the materials required for this implementation should be sent to the country. The urgency of the amendment is therefore apparent here. At the time we are talking, all the materials from 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' have already come to Greece and are to be transferred as soon as possible to the premises of EAB to start this great programme. I have talked about delays, but as you can see, it is important for the country's defence to avoid any further delay in the implementation of the upgrade of F-16 aircraft because this upgrade will ultimately give our Air Force the quality advantage it needs to defend its sovereign rights. I therefore consider this procedure, at least, to be a start on its legislative part today. It will soon be completed. It is a programme of which, in fact, it depends on the ability of our Air Force to maintain the great deterrent power, with all that that implies for our national interests. It is a national need, I would say, to speed up this programme and, at the same time, to make the operating competitive industry, the jewelry, the defence industry, to carry out not only this programme, but also others that will now be able, soon, to amend the agreement, especially on the part of our defence industry, which we once called compensatory benefits, but which will soon be a benefit, which will be an internal investment within the EAW, so that they can attract themselves and carry out not only this important programme that I have told you, but also other similar tasks for the benefit of our defence industry, the Armed Forces, but also of our country. For these reasons, I would urge you to support this amendment. It is, as I have said, the launching of a procedure which has its own maximum national significance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, too, Minister. Before Mr Anastasiades, Mr Gregoriadis has been asked to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Madam President. Excuse me, Mr. Anastasiades. I won't delay you at all. One minute I'll talk to say two things that I think they shouldn't be left unanswered. The first thing I would like to say, Madam President, is that it is at least globally undeniable that we should triumph, thank and welcome to be able to express our opinion to the Greek Parliament. I had the impression - I am also sure - that we have democracy in this country and that that is exactly what we are doing here, that is to say, what each representative of the Greek people wants in the world. That's all in that respect. The second thing I would like to say about restoring the truth this time is that I clearly said that they did very well to get these girls through a school parade. I didn't talk about a military parade at all. And I will recall and say nothing else that school parades continue to be carried out on this planet only in non-democratic regimes, such as the one in North Korea or the one in existence of socialism, before the existing socialism falls or what the schizophrenic paranoid planet commander Trump wants to bring back, and fortunately, he has not done so yet, i.e. the parade of disciples in New York. Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u359	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Anastasiades has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u360	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, I think that, as you are asking for the right to express your opinion, you have it and no one has deprived you of it, so you must recognise the right to those who disagree with you to criticise you. That's what happened. And your intervention, I think, was poor and impeccable, so we won't get back into this process. They were spoken and conceived. Anyone who wants to see one view and the other. Why did you talk about North Korea and make parallels, which have no place in this Parliament and never had one. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill, which comes to the House today and which we are discussing, a number of issues are dealt with in various ministries. Exceptional issues are being addressed, pathogens are being improved, PPC's restructuring is being pursued and the state is intervening where emergency needs are present - such as the problems created by the collapse of "THOMAS COOK", the well-known tourist organisation - improves the protection of the first home. These interventions confirm once again the decision by both the Prime Minister and the Government that this government will pull the country forward, not only with findings and rhetoric, but with solutions where they need and where there are problems. A characteristic example is PPC. Because by abolishing the auctioning of time-consuming electricity products, the well-known NOME, decisive steps are being taken to rebuild it. And we all know that this procedure has cost PPC over the last three and a half years about 600 million to the company, but also by extension of the Greek people, of society. And you are honoured, ladies and gentlemen, by the fact that you too agree with the abolition of this procedure, even though it was you who institutionalised it. We are also improving the existing institutional framework for the protection of first residence, making it easier for debtors. With the changes brought by the government, more beneficiaries can join the protection regulations, not only those who will make new applications, but those who had already applied with the former regime. The exemption from the obligation to pay tax on the companies which had cooperated with the tourist agency ThomAS COOK is to be added to the Government's effort to support the tourist businesses affected by the collapse of this company and to protect workers in those enterprises by extension. We are now coming to the CEEC for which a lot of discussion has been held on both the self-employed and the controversy about this in this Chamber today, but also in the committees. I would like to remind you of the following, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition. The New Democracy has long supported both the self-interest and the overall effort of the JET. There has never been a question of abolishing the self-employed, as it is not now. But, ladies and gentlemen, the government and the current Minister, in practical terms, supporting the CTE and the self-employed, believe that the model of administration needs to be changed. And because we've heard here a lot of coups and so forth, I want to ask the following question. Do you not accept as a democratic majority's right to define this way of administering the agency? And of course, to judge this initiative soon, as you have the right to do. It is not the self-determination, ladies and gentlemen, since the general meeting, which is the central role of decision-making and defines the strategic planning of the institution, is not an act of self-determination. Why, though, did this matter arise? Why did the government suddenly decide to do this? Did the inspiration come to them sometime like that? Because, Mr. Xanthi, as you know, there is a finding that clearly indicates the existence of a circuit in the area of Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u361	Why didn't you say that the first day? You're making fun of the world! You're lying! That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u362	Should we not, then, have control? I don't understand your irritation. Why are you uprising?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u363	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u364	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u365	So what are you telling us? Shouldn't there be a check? Shouldn't there be an in-depth investigation into what they saw the light of publicity? Is that what you're telling us? Is that what you want? Is that what you tell the Greek people? And should there not be an end to research and control where there is state funding? Shall we leave it all with an immunity regime?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u366	Just like the CDC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u367	Don't throw the ball in the stands when you don't have anything to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Comrade, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u369	Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my position on the issue of the two-year extension for the completion of the process of institutionalising the areas of organised aquaculture development, the WEU. I am thinking, above all, of this because there are organised aquaculture in the Thermaic Gulf, in the region of Halastra, in the Kymins, in the Malgaras, in the Memorandum, in the Memorandum. And I say this because I heard the rapporteur from the Communist Party of Greece this morning who, due to this extension, was able to operate aquaculture, referred to support for industrialists because of this decision. I would like to say that in the area of the Thermaikos Gulf, where around 90% of the culture is developed, with 90% export-oriented - and that has its importance for the Greek economy - water farmers are part-time small farmers and have nothing to do with what was mentioned this morning by the rapporteur of the KKE and congratulations, Minister, who is doing this in order to enable them to function. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in a slow but firm way moves forward in the right direction, detects problems, intervenes with solutions, faces the challenges of everyday life, improves the lives of the citizens, and so proceeds with a plan, determination and strategy, and we will be dealt with and chosen by the people again. Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u370	Thank you very much, too. My colleague has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA, Mr Muszalas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u371	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I was anxious if I could speak after the speech from the Greek Solution. I say: will I, too, catch up before Greece is lost before the Greeks are lost? I got it. I hope the rest of you will finish. CHETH: Too many in here don't know what C.E.L.D. they talked about. It is, therefore, a healing organization with a great social role, based on scientific realities. It was created in 1983 by PASOK. It was one of the very positive signs that PASOK left on the issue of drug addicts and the fight against drugs. Mr Stefanis and Mr Rupakiotis have worked very hard and we owe them one. Why did it become a self-help? Because it's one of the toughest programs. The "hot" programs are one of the hardest programs presented by drug addicts and dependants. So the model is now scientifically managed - and I can bring you literature, I am a doctor, as you know - the desired model for the "hot" programs. It was therefore no random choice and it was no coincidence that so many PASOK and New Democracy governments did not attack this model. It is no coincidence that this model to date only sounds well in society and internationally. Today, tomorrow, in the next few days, the new appointed president will go to pick up another international award for the CTE, which opened up a programme for gambling and those small machines, which I do not know what they are called. Also, what's the C.E.E.L.D.? It is a link in a chain that makes the effort of the state, the attempt of society to cope with this subtle social illness, but also biological drug disease. The breakdown of the CEDEFOP creates a breakdown in all other branches, and it is no coincidence that there is none of these institutions and structures dealing with drugs that are not complaining. You're doing a trick here, gentlemen of the New Democracy. You do it all the time. You put the wrong question and give the right answer. That's easy. You say: Why does SYRIZA react? That's not the question. Why are you changing the CTE is the question, a CTE which is clear. When you voted on this thing, you had said nothing about either the internal audit performed by the ERCF, or the General Accounting Office of the State. You've now made it when you saw that there's no scientist in this story who agrees with what you're doing and we're talking about scientists in many sciences, lawyers, sociologists, doctors. There was no one for thirty-six years. Even Samaras reconfirmed his self-propelled. The question is, why do you change it? Now look, I'll tell you what, of the few I can understand, how you're working. The law to define the commander of the NSA you wanted didn't make you. You changed the law. Here now the law not to come out President one you don't like does not make you. You're changing the law again. When all your arguments are over, you conclude that "he voted for us 40%". Guys, we know that. When Mr. Mitsotakis came to Maximos, our Prime Minister Mr. Tsipras was there and accepted him. When we became a government, did you not know that we became government and that your ministers and those who had to hand over the government were missing? I am not talking about any of you, ladies and gentlemen. You're just in front of me and I'm looking at you. I'm saying this so we don't have any misunderstandings. What is the final argument? Forty percent. We're a democracy. This is not a concept of democracy. This is a perception of how the majority will exercise dictatorial power over all minority groups. I would like all of us to remember - and I was telling my party - that 40% is a majority in Parliament, but it is a minority in the people, and that should be remembered by any majority in Parliament. So let's go down. The adolescence of not being able to understand that there will be bodies that will not be directly controlled by you is what creates a turbulence the healers will pay for, because you know that it is very important that the normal course, the normal relationship between the healer and his therapist, and make it clear that he is doing financial misery. The General Accounting Office of the State has accepted all the reports of the Central Bank. In this report you say it makes comments and scored from 1 to 5, it scores it for the first time to 4. Look at public bodies to see corresponding scores. He mentioned some evidence from a Member of Parliament, I think Kriton Arsenis from Mera25. There's nothing wrong with what you say and you're slandering it. You're slandering one of the main weapons we have. It says the Minister: 'We have no programme'. He didn't bring a program. He changed a board of directors. We will then have a scientific committee judge. It did not bring us a scientific committee report to judge. He just changed a board of directors. He didn't bump into that. I didn't get any conspiracy on that. Other people came in. I'm not judging them, but can I tell you who they went through to make comparisons? Fatouros, Ploritis, Kundouros, Notaras, Nestor, Bitsakis, Zei, Paraskevi, Mouszelis, Bulgaria, Melanou. That's the self-help, that's what conquered society. It is not the violent changes that are made on the basis of 40%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u372	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. SYRIZA has the floor, and immediately after Mrs. Fotio. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u373	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I shall say something. Before Mr Panagiotopoulos came in and brought a very serious amendment, which I am aware of - because I am not the person responsible - that we have no objection. However, it is a programme of one and a half billion, an upgrade of the F16, which will take place in ODA, and that is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u374	Not all of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u375	Not all of it. So, in the context of good legislation, do we bring such an amendment of this kind lately before this draft law is finalised? So that's what regularity is? Is that the good legacy you promised, gentlemen of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u376	...to talk again later about good legalization.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u377	At least, this matter should have been discussed in the Committee on Foreign and Defence Policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u378	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u379	Well, in any case, I would like to say a few words about the bill, this dilemma of the three acts of legislation, first of all, I would like to express my condemnation of the climate that has been created in recent days, a climate of growing government arrogance towards students and youth in view of the Polytechnics. All that we've seen these days. The intervention of the mates to students who were shouting: "Psalm - Freedom", the on-the-spot attendances of students and youths - today, even the secretary of SYRIZA's great youth, was then released because he had not committed any crime, a card was raised, as did the insurgent students of the Polytechnic at the time in the center of Athens - and also the incredible shameful treatment of people brought to certain police stations. This is a disgrace to democracy, and we must condemn it because you lead youth and the country to very difficult shame. We are therefore calling on us in peaceful mass mobilisations this three-day, starting tomorrow at the Polytechnic and on Sunday. We call on all the people, all the youth, all the students to participate in order to respond democratically to a climate of authoritarianism in the name of law and order. I shall now say a few words about the legislative acts. On the subject of the ERCF, too many colleagues have spoken. I think that the issue of the JRC is an application of the part on which government policy is based. For me, three legs go on by the New Democracy Government: Law and order, suffocating control of the state by the so-called ultimate state and a peculiar neoliberalism with privileged acceptance of some great interests within the country in which we have constantly, with amendments to the various bills that have come since August, we have continued gifts. Well, what's going on at the C.E.T.A.: brutal intervention of the party state That's what's going on. That's what this is about. You are abrogating a self-sufficient organism that has been positively evaluated by the UN. He hasn't been evaluated by you. The UN has evaluated positively. In fact, you are abolishing all this work, zeroing it, because you have nothing to say in concrete terms. You have brought us some conclusions, but you have not called into question the administration and the good management of the administration, some of which, in any case, had already been identified with its own internal control and were in a process of conciliation. This is therefore a brutal intervention by the party state at the KETHA. That is why I believe that you have suffered a political and moral defeat in this matter, however large it may not seem, because the administration you have appointed has already made progress. But in society you have been devalued by this matter and you will see it then. I will say a few words now on the subject of the impact of 'THOMAS COOK'. First of all, we must say about the collapse of this great agency, this company. Yesterday in Germany it was announced that its subsidiary "THOMAS COOK" fell into bankruptcy and six hundred thousand customers are in the air. The measures you have taken, and you have been told by the institutions, are inadequate and poor. And here I would like to say that there is a European Parliament resolution which calls on the Member States to make full use of the European Union's available instruments in order to mitigate the impact of the 'Thomas COOK' bankruptcy. He says in words and points out: 'Governments should use the European Social Fund and the Globalisation Adjustment Fund to help workers made redundant'. It also calls on the European Parliament to submit a proposal on the right of workers to be informed and consulted. One more word and I shall end, Mr President. It is good that the Secretary of State for the Environment is going to withdraw the provision by which the public spaces are allocated to the company - a gift to investors - which will exploit the Greek. But many things still have to be clarified. As you know, there is also recourse to the Council of State by the Association of Greek Archaeologists and two unions of the Ministry of Culture for the archaeological site which also belongs to the public spaces, the archaeological site, located in Agios Kosmas. Let's see how things look. However, the struggle between both the people of the region and the actors and the opposition has brought fruit and you have retreated on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Fotou from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u381	Ladies and gentlemen, today's ratification of the September Act is another vote on the New Democracy political plan and on ways of implementing this political plan for four months. The political plan is to transfer to the great private interests of public goods, labour rights, social state, health, education, insurance, welfare, as well as the staffing of the entire state with our own children. In order to implement the project, the social body must be paralysed and divided. This is achieved by demonstrating extreme political authoritarianism, by slandering, muddling and formulating institutions, social groups and individuals, resisting and restoring fear as a dominant element of everyday life. For days now, the New Democracy has set up a war climate to terrorise society and not come down on the course of November 17, not to protest against all of this, which you are doing and attempting four and a half months now. Fear is used to paralyse society and youth. ‘We are threatened’ by the students, who are presented as potential terrorists and 'blacks'. "We are threatened" by universities, which have been denounced as centres, places of violence and lawlessness for years. "We are threatened" by SYRIZA and his MPs, who want the status of violence and lawlessness. An entire city, Athens, the capital of the country, is threatened. Fear is sown over the city. It is used to legitimise the repression and violence with which the New Democracy wants to rule. That is why the far right-wing extremes of the New Democracy have been recruited, who are giving their change these days to the channels. Repression and violence are legitimate actions by the state, wood is an element of forcedness, this is what we hear from the extreme right-wing ministers of the New Democracy. But fear divides and divides society and young people. These are the side losses. The New Democracy has learned nothing from what happened in the refugee and its inability to manage it for four and a half months. The governance recipe, which I have described, is fully implemented in the act of legislative content for the CECH, i.e. the tripartite: divestment of public structures in private interests, political authoritarianism, deception and muddling against those who react and nomination of the 'days' in what we cannot control anyway. Here we have an act of legislation which was not adopted because the House was closed or because there was an extremely urgent and unforeseen need, as was the case with the memoranda on which exactly what was done with the acts of legislation, as stated in Article 44(1) of the Constitution. Unless exceptionally urgent and unpredictable need was the apparent election at the steering wheel of the Foreign Demetrius C.E.D., former Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, with huge experience and international radiation. Mrs. Demetrius is not politically controlled. This is not tolerable by the New Democracy. Therefore, instead of electing the municipal council by the general assembly, as was the case, the Minister appoints all members of the board of directors alone - all seven! - and thus jeopardizes the international status of the body and its role as UN drug adviser, which he conquered because of his political axieties and therapeutic practice. But the government doesn't care about them! The other reason why the CECH was targeted is that the New Democracy cannot withstand the existence in the public sector of a successful entity operating on the basis of the self-managed model. The Government of New Democracy is the only project that has anti-dependencies is to grant private capital treatment structures. So the trio that includes what I have explained, the whole philosophy of the New Democracy - partisan control, assigning to private interests - is completed with depreciation, muddling, decaying on economic irregularities. The institutional coup, which was held at the CECH, is the result of the political authoritarianism of the New Democracy and is based on a dangerous belief, that 40% of the New Democracy received in the elections is a passport for institutional coups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Institutional coups you made yesterday in the amendment to the Criminal Code and smashed the country around the world. According to today's publication of the "FINANCIAL TIMES" - which, as far as I know, only Syrian party form is not - the change of the Greek law is a setback in terms of the "plashing of black money". The report refers to the last-minute amendment in which people suspected of criminal fraud and money laundering are recovering assets - I am finishing, Madam President - who had been frozen by the court if they were not put to trial within eighteen months. The post invokes the reports of two important organisations, the Financial Action Task Force and the GREECO, and points out that among those who will benefit from this move is a dozen Greek shipowners, prominent entrepreneurs and former bankers under investigation for money laundering. While their assets have been frozen for the last two to seven years, not one of the accused ever appeared in court. We're talking about assets worth 1,02 billion. These are the superstitions of the great interests that brought New Democracy to power, these are the bills that it undoes. He quickly collapsed, within four and a half months, the so-called mild, liberal, centreless profile of the government. It reveals the face of the Right, which the older ones have known very well: fear, authoritarianism, division of the social body, service of great interests, customer state. This is the Right, the new right-wing, Mr. Mitsotakis! We are voting against ratification. I'm presenting in the Minutes the article that I mentioned above.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA and Mrs Notopoulou will be prepared. Please warmly keep the time, if you can, because we still have several speakers. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u383	Ladies and gentlemen, some questions have to be resolved, which, fortunately, do not concern the President-in-Office of the Council, because he has raised it, and it is not on the one hand that you raise issues of smooth and honest legislature and, at the same time, in one day, with the presence in a bill - 'gut' of ten or fifteen ministers intervening, so that we can reach 10 o'clock to express the Members. And I think it is another example of how you understand democracy and parliamentaryism, only under conditions and conditions of the New Democracy. However, after signing up to the last word, a party and at the moment, what Yiannis Mousalas said earlier, I feel a sacred obligation not to waste time on the remains of a bad government that has precedented and, rather, on its models, on the models of the Samara government, you continue. I want to refer to the CEDEFOP. If the Minister of Health were to be here - he had no more than two hours in the morning! - I'd like to propose something very simple. Before putting his signature today, the signature on the tomb of the KETHE network throughout Greece, I would suggest to him to visit - never too late and I sincerely wish you, it is myth that he did not know what KETHEA is when the conversation was opened or when they imposed on him the conversation about KETHES, I hope that this - or should have already visited in his life the structures of KETHES, "Ithaca", "Promethea", the rehab center that operates in the Privilegal Diabetes and alternatives is interconnected with the second opportunity school. Of course, the interest of your resignation is seen by the arithmetic presence of the government majority and opposition in this plan. A photographer, if he saw it from up here, would understand how interesting and important you are showing for what you're suggesting to legislate. I fear, therefore, that Mr. Kikilis would come before the members, executives, workers of the CDEH, if he looked at eyes and faces and wounded bodies, he would understand what it means to reborn human beings. A few days ago Dimitris said: "First time my mother gave birth to me, I was born again in KETHES". If I were you, my colleague, if I could hear such expressions, I wouldn't be on the phone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u384	Mercy! Sixteen hours we're here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u385	Keep going, that's not what I'm saying. But in the sterile environment you live, you obviously can't understand it. And people, you know, are judged for the faces they choose as their partners. What Mr. Kikilis suggests about KETHES is a good panel for a reality perhaps, but for KETHES it's not. Thousands of people, families, dependants, citizens and relatives saw their people die and be reborn. And I really am amazed - as Yannis Muzalas said very well -. Should you use an act of night-based legislation and then a few weeks later invent that there are financial irregularities? You may not know, because you have not met these people and never or very few times in your life, that even management issues are important. Something you don't understand is that the self-interest of the CEDEFOP is a cure, it's not a power pyramid, it's not just a way of command, it's part of the treatment. So I was told an incident where in fact one of the members of the community left one morning with the unit fund from the structure with a thousand euros. Do you know that in two weeks' time he returned the money and trying to get back into the crisis of the rest of the community about whether it's going to be reinstated? These are things, they are moments of everyday life, they are issues which we cannot see in this Chamber unless we live where it is done. In any case, because Mrs Sacurafa has asked me and I will contribute to this, in the economy of time, the problem is not just the ERCF. The problem is, you're imprisoned. The problem is, at the same time that you are accused of rinsing out strange and dirty cases, at the same time, at this time, you are discussing in the area of Naoussa in three Five Pigadias to build, create in the name of renewable energy sources of pharaonic pillars and wind generators next to the three Pegadia ski resort. You're irreparable, because, you know, the bills usually clean dust, impurities or political dishonesty. I guess that's what's happening. You start and become sad, apart from dangerous ones, and I fear that all that connects you to democratic sensitivities and parliamentaryism is just the title of your party, as long as it remains New Democracy and does not go to Greek Solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u386	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Notopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, since we congratulate the New Democracy and its Government, because it has resolved the issue of Macedonian products by copying the logo of its party, let us also get into the essence of the debate. But before I begin my position on the relief measures for enterprises affected by the collapse of the 'THOMAS COOK', I obviously feel the need to express my indignation, my wrath for the authoritarian, coup d'état intervention of the government in the abolition of the self-government of the JET. It's obvious that what you don't control, you catalyse, you dissolve. But you are coming to crush a healing model that is currently leading both our country and as advisor internationally in the programs of rehab. All these years he's given life, he's embraced so many people in our country. He's literally given them life, he's resurrected them. So, what is it that leads you to such a choice? It's the money you don't control, as you said, why do we know what happened with what you've checked in the past? Is it a sense of almightyness you have or is it your absolute insecurity policy? In any case, we are a little concerned about that. But the Minister for Health has arrived to make an attack on mud. Mud policy is the only thing you know so well to do. You do it successfully. Of course he didn't succeed in haunting his account. If we now move on to measures to address the consequences of 'THOMAS COOK', I was amazed once again to hear the Minister responsible, the Minister of Tourism, say that he has warmly responded to the needs of operators, professionals, workers, after the collapse of 'THOMAS COOK'. In fact, where does this conclusion come from? No one can understand it. The Minister of Tourism from day one and what he didn't say! He said it was Notopoulou's fault or that the "Thomas COOK" would collapse earlier with us. He said he's shown quick reflexes. He also reiterated this in the International Report on "PHILOXENIA", in the absence of any other project on tourism. And I wonder who you think you're laughing at, ladies and gentlemen of the government. I'm sure you're not fooling the workers you haven't legislated for yet. However, you are certainly not mocking the businesses - which you have already misled - and you are certainly not mocking the operators of tourism, who in the committee responsible, where the FPI has also been discussed. Of course, neither the Minister for Tourism nor the Minister for Labour were on the respective committees of the House, in order, in fact, to listen to the actors in the context of democracy and consultation. They didn't feel that need. After the fiasco, which hurt Samothraki and left her hurt, and there Mr. Theocharis assured us that everything is going well, that we are imaginary. Of course, it was your media, the New Democracy, who's been frustrating him since the first time. Once again, then, the government appears totally unprepared, unable to understand how great a problem the collapse of 'Thomas COOK' has caused. And obviously we didn't tell you, even though you knew, the Minister of Tourism knew the very bad situation of the company, we didn't tell him to go out on the square of the Constitution and call it, nor did we tell him to be placed in television panels. He had to inform the other ministers, however, he had to inform the tourism operators, he had to draw up an elementary plan to deal with the crisis. And we arrive today, many months later, and I'm also going to take a time-return, bring in an MDG and the signals - and not just - that refers to the extradition of a later MDG. So nothing at all has been done about 'THOMAS COOK'. But let's take them one by one. As far as the exemption from the residence fee is concerned, operators have already been placed. It doesn't make it easier for businessmen. Professionals collect it, pay it to the State, as required, by tourists. With regard to the suspension of the payment of VAT, did we discuss, did the agencies ask for longer time to collect, because a closed company from which it would collect from, where would it find liquidity to deliver it to you? There is, of course, only a brief reference to understand the indifference of your government, but above all - I will repeat - the inability, because Mr Theocharis' meeting with the officials of the 'THOMAS COOK' took place in July. The company collapses on September 23th. Two ministerial meetings, too many announcements, too many announcements. Most of them hit SYRIZA. No serious policy. And today he comes to refer us to a later CIA. We ask you over and over again. You have not found a single answer to the questions we have asked for so many months. We have come to bring you the press release from the European Parliament, which encourages all countries, the Member States, to make use of the tools, to make use of the resources to protect workers. It's obviously none of your business. You promised four and a half thousand jobs. Where is he? There is the corresponding decision by the Board of Directors of the OEAD, there is no ministerial decision by the Ministry of Labour. And you were also lucky, because from the previous government of SYRIZA and from the Ministry of Labour on SYRIZA you had received a framework for dealing with similar bankruptcies. Your final state has only really to show is an effective inertia. But the worst thing is that in all these shocks and challenges the government does not even open up the debate on a new plan. For a new plan to address the challenges of changing tourism as well as the global map. It is served on a recital for SYRIZA's work either on air connections - see Athens-Shanghai - or on the opening of the tour school. But to remind you that it was the New Democracy that closed the tour schools and the SYRIZA government that opened them. We continue to propose and ask for the safeguarding of industrial relations, the activation of the MUL 1170/2015, which exists, why do you not activate it? - the broadening of the criteria and the reintroduction to 120 instalments, of course greater suspension of payment of VAT, natural offsetting of unpaid VAT by unrealistic invoices with 'Thomas Cook' with future VAT. Besides, it was your announcement. On 27 September you said that you were considering simplifying the procedure for the deduction of precarious requirements for the invoices of "THOMAS COOK". What's happened since then? It's been a long time, but you haven't done anything. Let me not mention again the fact that we were talking about and guaranteed a 50% reduction in the tax advance and that you do not even do so in the case of the companies that had been involved in the 'Thomas COOK'. For the healing baths, we did, too, give extensions. I wonder, however, why there is no specific timetable - and I close here - to force bodies such as the EBRD to draw up a framework for the use and promotion of these resources. But rather, policy planning is not in the priorities, the needs of the Ministry of Tourism. Your needs - and here I mention the complaint of the Workers' Association at the Ministry of Tourism, and I come down from the Step - are only used to demonstrate authoritarian behaviour by the officials of the Ministry of Labour. We handed you a record-driven tourism in investment and arrivals, awards, and you at the end of the day are simply showing incompetence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u388	So do we. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Vessiropoulos, for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my position on this bill focuses on the articles that fall within the competence of the Ministry of Finance. As you know, the bill to be introduced is not only about the ratification of the laws of 25-09-2019 and 30-09-2019 of a legislative act to alleviate the consequences of the collapse of the 'THOMAS COOK', but also about a number of other regulations that are required to be adopted. Everyone knows that immediately after the collapse of the "THOMAS COOK" company, there was a direct reaction on our part. At the meeting that took place the first hours after the extraordinary event, all the necessary steps were taken to avoid disruption with the repatriation of tourists who had come with packages of "THOMAS COOK" and to avoid negative turbulence in our tourism. At the same time, however, the Government, as far as its potential is concerned, moved towards support for enterprises which had a significant exposure to their professional relations with 'Thomas COOK'. Our aim was - and it is - to alleviate these effects, which I also stressed in committee. The legislative act adopted on 25 September and ratified today provides for exemption from the obligation to pay accommodation tax for hotel businesses and accommodation, which were concluded with Thomas COOK for the period from 23-09-2019 to 10-10-2019. The rules also include cases where the residence tax has already been collected by the British company and has not been paid to the undertakings, as are the cases where the residence tax is due to be borne by the undertakings in question. In order to make this fully understandable, we should explain that the hotel and accommodation concerned will publish the particulars and enter them in the residence tax, but will not include them in the statements submitted for the period September-October 2019. By 30-09-2019, VAT is suspended until 31-03-2020, established by debit declarations with a deadline of 30-09-2019 and 31-10-2019 for taxable persons engaged in transactions with the company ‘THOMAS COOK’. The suspension applies to enterprises with more than 25% of their turnover from customers of "THOMAS COOK". In addition and in parallel with the suspension of payment of VAT up to 31-03-20, no such interest on late payment is due for the same period. Of course, support measures have also been included, which are the responsibility of other ministries, such as the support measures for workers from the OAED and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to a number of other provisions that fall within the competence of the Ministry of Finance and are included in the bill. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The arrangement relates to debts secured or secured until 29 November of this year and is required. It was a lasting and consistent demand for self-government, and I assume that it will receive the consent of all the political forces. The same I believe is true of the creation of a special reserve to meet the urgent needs of the state. I have explained in detail the feasibility and purpose of such a move. The special reserve will be used for expenditure that is predictable, but which contains elements of uncertainty in order to solve operational problems of the State and of the Ministries. In fact, the Ministries that will no longer be forced to spend on their regular budgets, the amount of which they cannot certainly predict, thus presenting the phenomenon of the under-utilisation of the ordinary budget, but also not addressing operational needs. The amount of this special reserve will not exceed 50% of the credit, which is entered as a reserve in the State budget, and the sum of the two reserves may not exceed the ceiling laid down as a reserve in the State budget. From there on, the bill comes a series of regulations that improve the law on the protection of first home. And we will improve this framework even further, though and when needed. Our aim is to make it easier for citizens to join the law on the protection of first residence as many as possible. So we move on to structural arrangements and interventions such as: First, the possibility that debtors may apply to protect their main residence, even if they are resident in a rented or licensed property outside the regional unit in which their main residence is situated. Secondly, the possibility of involving a guarantor of younger age in cases of elderly debtors who have so far been unable to benefit from the 25-year-old dose adjustment. Thirdly, the possibility of protecting the entire residence at the request of only one owner for cases where more than one owner is present. Fourthly, the facility to apply for debtors who are proven to be in a dimension with one or more of the two may apply. Fifthly, the possibility of using the right to state subsidies all the co-owners who are applying for the protection of the main residence. Sixthly, the provision that in the event of a request being re-introduced due to deficiencies or errors will remain the protection of the principal residence in the interval between time and re-introduction. Seventhly, the possibility for debtors who have received a housing loan from credit institutions, i.e., from public limited companies that legally provide loans, regulate their debts and protect their main residence through the platform. I must point out that these improvements apply not only to the new applications that will be submitted, but also to the applications that have already been submitted, but have not been completed. I understand everyone's sensitivities, but we are here to deal with a problem that has taken a great deal of time, and that is why we immediately brought in a new institutional framework for the protection of first residence. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis legislates in rational terms. It has a clear target for the country, it wants to create a wide raft of opportunities for everyone, the conditions for all citizens to return to a normal situation. This aim was captured by the regulation of the hundred and twenty doses and by the law on the protection of the first home. It will also be reflected in the tax bill in the consultation process, which includes a second wave of tax reductions and, at the same time, has a strong developmental character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Paulakis from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u391	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, another multi-project we are talking about today, as has been the case with the amendments. I won't say much about the C.E.E.L.D. A great deal has been said by previous speakers. But listen to what I'm about to tell you, because you've made it a flag. And I'm talking to you, Mr. Contozamanis, as Mr. Kikilias isn't here. I sat down and read the report from the State General Accounting Office. Have any of you read it? She's criminal. Is that right? In twenty-two CEMEA healing programs, what tells them is that the three do not go up to "DIAGY", but go up to KIMIDIS, commitment. What do you think? Half the Greek public does that. And in another one or two programs it signes - it says - only the financial manager and the signatures are not legible. What do you think? Big scandal you discovered. It's a huge scandal. Let's put them all in jail. Close half Greek public on this basis. You had to find an excuse why he shouldn't have become the Demetrius president of the CTE and put the lifestyle of a failed Trikala State, Liapis the psychiatrist, who knows - as far as I read his curriculum - from drug addiction as far as I know about aeronautics, and you had to find it a month and a month later. Bravo! Congratulations! Can I show you the equivalent of CEDEFOP, which dropped the tens of millions of dollars like the hail? And you've swallowed it undetected. And here it is not - it says - 'SELECTION' or 'SELECTION'? Shame on you! Let's go down. Break from the bill. Because you have said a lot and you will cover it all up and you will bathe it all, within a week in Paleochora and Kundura and Lafonissi in southwest Crete threw a two-time hail and spent four water turfs. I'm fifty-four years old. The first water turbine I saw in my life was in 2014 in the summer of Sfakia, when we made the mobilization for Syrian chemicals just before we started. Then I first saw. What's up, guys? What is it? Is it climate change or isn't it? To remember the Eye a little bit. There, then, they were destroyed by climate change with such weather phenomena that we will not have seen before, a hundred acres. Mrs. Arabaji is gone. So much for the amendment he has tabled. We are extending the agricultural partnerships to partnerships and we have not given - it says - an adjustment period. Why? The two years that have passed what it is and it gives another six months? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u392	Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u393	Listen. I'm saying it right now. She's not Mrs. Arapatzi. I am addressing Mr Voridis, who told us that wood is also necessary. The wood will be ploughed if at the time of climate change we do not pay compensation from the 'DE MINIMIS' programmes, which for the first time with Mr Arachovitis, we have been able to finance and finance such damages and must be given immediately. There's a total destruction of 100 acres of greenhouse mushrooms and a lot more, not to mention wood again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u394	That's forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u395	Legislation, Mr. Davakis, to allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u396	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u397	This is where you legislated that without a degree or a degree in music you became the other... Take it easy. Is this where the legislature is going to block?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u398	He said he'd give. It has not given the 'DE MINIMIS' for olives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u399	Please don't talk to each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u400	We said that 'DE MINIMIS', for last year's disaster in Chania they got...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u402	How are you gonna tell me no? Six million gave. Here is to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u403	Mr. Polakis, in your speech, please. Not a conversation between you two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u404	But I'm interrupted. Mr. Kontozamanis, with regard to the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, I am pleased that you continue with what we agreed with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. And after the failure of the building of the new nursery in "Evangelism", the rewards that have been agreed here and the new hospital in Sparta, which, I suppose, will be on the site and on the plot that exists within the existing hospital, next to the new wing built there. But two remarks will be made very serious and very wicked, because we read a lot. First, why did you ask for new helicopters? They had agreed. Before I came, my colleague, Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panayotopoulos, and said that this is where we are helping EAV through this story, etc. And we, because we wanted to help the ODA, said that the two of the three helicopters could be repaired. The damage they have is that they have completed some other functions and simply need to make an overall check of the engine as they say. And we agreed with EAB and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to undertake this to repair them. Why do we have to get a new one? And from what I saw, you suggested it. Why? Don't you want to strengthen the ODA? We agreed. The executives were here. We agreed. We signed up. Why do you change that? Now what? Are they going to get some old iron? Secondly, I see a wicked paragraph that I do not like pet at all. It's all you change. We have said that four pet - ct and four cyclotrons will be purchased. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u405	Three and four.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u406	Well done. I see here that there is a paragraph that says that they will be placed - it says - the pet - ct, radiopharmaceutical production units, to get away from this type in Lavrio, which is sold to us by the cocoon winds - in selected public nursing establishments or in other places that the Greek public will indicate. What's that? Listen, because I'm talking straight. If that's because someone of yours wants to take the pet to the FORTH, forget about it. There's room for Heraklion University too, and I know there's too much. You're smiling. So that's it. It won't go. I'm telling you right now. If it's not that and this is the precursor to change the story and instead of the baby cyclotronies, that will enter every hospital that will enter the pet to produce radio medicine, go for a big one that gets in somewhere else so that it doesn't happen and continue to drink the blood that now takes the radio medicine out, again don't dare do it. Two more things I want to tell you. We've been through the rest. Because there is an issue that has been created, we have not come out to do so 'the Lord'. We understand some things. I would like you to answer a question, however. On 30 November, three hundred ninety-seven adjunctive doctors who have gone with extension must be fired because they are financed by the public investment programme. I noticed that you received the credit approved for 2019 from three projects - from the Centre for Health of Mandamadous in Mytilini, from the old hospital in Agrinio and from the coroner in Laiko - an amount of about 2 million, leaving the real money in the credit for these three projects very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u407	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u408	Listen to it. It matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u409	I hear it, but you've been over your time a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u410	I accept that they will not be able to absorb themselves this year, apart from Laiko, but I hope that he will not be a foreman, for example, in Agrinio, for the project. We can finance it. As soon as the days are over, it will be declared. But be careful. ‘Laiko’ is in the process of opening economic tenders. The techniques are over, and they're on the financial offers. Okay, he won't come in until December...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u411	Mr. Comrade, you are depriving your colleague of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u412	I shall conclude, Madam President. You leave four hundred thousand, but you must commit that these projects will be financed. Don't answer them tomorrow - the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u413	Mr. Comrade, you are depriving your colleague of time. You've already been to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u414	You're right. I want a concrete answer to that, Mr Contozamanis, because the other 200,000, 300,000 of what you have taken will be needed in particular in the 'Language' issue. Also - now I remembered - you give 2 million. These two million are for two months. So, on December 31st again, we're running? Do you intend to keep them then? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u415	Mr. Avramakis has the floor for seven minutes. I hope, Mr Avramakis, that you respect the time, because there are a number of colleagues who will not be able to speak. Here you go, Mr. Avramakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again in the same spectators' work. Another point I would say is that the logic of the discreditation of the parliamentary procedure and of the mislegislation on the part of the government, which brings us another multi-legislative plan with the signature of thirteen ministers and three legislative acts to vote with the Ministers, the Parliamentary Representatives, the speaker, to intervene during the talks, so that the procedure goes back, the House and the Members are tired, and the House and the House are late at midnight and the people we may see are tired of. I want to start by making a complaint - Mr. Kontozamanis is here - for the Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilia. He told me today that he had an appointment with employees on the part of the feeding, bankers of the "Dromokaterite Foundation", the "Lacto" Hospital and the Serres Hospital, who are seeking an answer for their contracts of employment, which expire on the 20th day of the month. They had a date, as I was pointed out. Mr. Kikilis didn't go to the date. She left the back door, just like I was told. I want you to cross it. It is really unfair for people who have done six hundred kilometres - and I am talking about my fellow Serres' neighbours - to express their anxiety about tomorrow and their future not to accept them at least by the Minister and to tell them his design regarding this part. If anything, if anything, the agony of ordinary people to share and be there to give answers to the dialogue table, even if they are not in the direction that the workers are seeking. I would now like to comment on the statements by Mr Georgiadis and Mr Voridis. I am surprised to hear Mr Georgiadis' statements that if there are any student occupations, the government's plan will be similar to that of ASEAN. We're talking about our youth, about teenagers. According to the statements made by Mr Vorides, who said that wood is an element of forcedness, which is probably also a means of regularity to you than I see on the basis of what you are going through and want to apply, is that the future for our youth? I believe that at the moment the government and the New Democracy are stumbling between extreme right and neoliberalism. And it does so by dividing it into a far-right agenda for the criminalisation of the social struggles and the struggles of youth, while at economic level it implements a neoliberal policy that serves an economic oligarchal elite. A third comment, as regards a statement by Mr Stakoura, on the tax relief and benefits which the government is going through. Mr Stakoras told us - we welcome these tax reliefs and we generally welcome everything that concerns the support of Greek society - that this is due to the financial area left by the policy that has been implemented in the last four months. But are we kidding? We left you a pillow of 37 billion and, on the basis of this, you are now moving towards a tax relief and social support policy for the lower layers, because the middle layers are changing and this will appear in the next tax bill you will also table in the budget. At least recognise the efforts of the previous government in the direction today you have the opportunity to make this policy. As I said another time, "do a memorial of foreign tide". At least recognize it. A fourth point that I would like to raise is this infamous, splendid provision that you proceeded with yesterday on the ambiguity and immunity of bankers, which is based not only on us, but also on the international press, as the FINANCIAL TIMES says in an article today, saying that the Mitsotakis Government facilitates the laundering of black money with won natural shipowners, businessmen and former bankers. Another point I would like to raise is that of constitutional parity. There is a Constitution, according to which we are all equal to the laws and have the same rights and obligations. How is equality guaranteed in practice, when parties, media, even natural persons, such as the current Prime Minister do not pay back their loans, are not consistent with their obligations and remain unavoidable, while the ordinary citizen accepts every day the pressure of banks and collectors for the regulation and repayment of their loans from you who are being cut for legality, justice and regularity? My previous colleagues have said it about the C.E.I.E.L.I.E.L.D. You withdrew into the automobile sector and you were totally hypocritically acting, because you prepared an act of legislation two months ago, and it was according to the logic set by my colleagues here, in order not to be President, Mrs Demetriou. This ideological position and attitude, because it bothered Maximus and Mr Mitsotakis personally, has been paid by an entire body and body, who in so many years of his presence and function has given no right and a procedure that you have also supported in the years. You oughtn't do it that way. With regard to 'THOMAS COOK', I believe that the intervention made by the government has worked in the first phase to serve the business world and, in the second phase, to the workers. In fact, you did not do that either, because the current legislative act clearly does not solve the problem that has arisen, but refers it to a next CSR. So you understand that, in essence, your legislation, even by means of an act of legislation, does not give a solution to the problem, at least in total. As far as PPC is concerned, we have said that as much as Mr Hatzidakis is trying to convince us that it was the work of the SYRIZA government, you know that NOME was the law and work of the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Samaras. We have just implemented this plan. You had a plan for small PPC, which provided for and involved divestment of natural resources such as hydroelectric plants to which we did not consent. We held PPC upright. You deceive her every day. Increasing tariffs for businesses, households and consumers. You are pushing consumers into alternative electricity providers and your aim and purpose is not to reorganise PPC, but to sell and privatise it. As far as the Voridis amendment is concerned, it is a photographic provision for a specific agricultural union. It destroys the principle of separation of functions, because it runs counter to the S.H.E.'s decision, but there's also a question. All other ICMs complied within the time frames. Why not? The objections and justifications of Mr Voridis do not change the substance of his legislative intervention in the direction of serving the interests of that ICM. I would like to make another statement about a bomb that reaches our ears - and Mr Brutsi is of course disproved - regarding what was released today and the government's intention - that is, the 'REUTERS' photographs as a source of the State Secretary for Labour, Mr Mitsarakis - that the privatisation of late payments is due, that is to say, arrears of EUR 12 billion to private individuals are being sold. If this is the case and it turns out in the course of time, you understand what all those who today owe the insurance funds and in one night will lose their shops and their property. Keep this in mind. In conclusion, I should like to say that, unfortunately, this is the state you want, a party and a clientele. Unfortunately, this is the development you are seeking. Less restrictions on investors, less rights and less wages for workers. Unfortunately, this is the economy you are pursuing. Without rules on the economic elite, without protection for the weak, without laws limiting arbitraryness or protecting public property. And because you are very often invoking in this Chamber that your people have given you self-reliance and a percentage of about 40%, to know that politics is a dynamic process. Nothing is permanent. Let me remind you that 48% more mighty parties were found at 6% and 7%. Even your party arrived at 18%. The people are here, they judge. He'll judge us and that's where everyone gets what he deserves. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u417	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u418	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u419	Let me clarify to the honourable Member that there was no date with the WTO today at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u420	Not with the WTO. With the union.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u421	With the union. They came with the President of the WTO. The Minister was off duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u422	He left the back door.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u423	They didn't have a date. That's what I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u424	They didn't?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u425	Oh, no. There's no date.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u426	Seven hundred miles did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u427	They saw people because we were out of the ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u428	Did they see them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u429	Of course, they saw them. And we have often explained that the WTO offices are across from the Ministry of Health. We can get to grips with the world, as you say, coming from all parts of Greece. There must be consultation and I think that so far the Ministry of Health has been in a mood because we have made all the meetings that have been requested by all the trade unions. We haven't denied a meeting. There was no date. This is to be clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u430	I hope you're right. I will confirm and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u431	Here you go, Mr. Spankee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u432	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today the National Representation is called upon to adopt, ratify three legislative acts, but also specific amendments tabled by ministerial and parliamentary committees. First of all, I welcome the adoption of the 8717 amendment tabled today by ten Members of the New Democracy, which concerns the investment of the Hellenic Republic, in order to resolve with this amendment directly, the property issues relating to the public and public areas within the investment of the Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u433	Did it make it acceptable, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u434	This amendment directly, soon and effectively serves the public interest. We give the natural beneficiaries, the municipalities of Greek, Argyroupoli, Glyfada and Alimos the use of these sites and at the same time we put an end to this, a large stop to the cassandras that rushed to jeopardize. In the rule of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the local society is a leading player. It's what we respect and it's what we serve. Let the expressions of hypocrisy, populism and lies understand well. The Government of New Democracy has a fresh and powerful people's mandate to change the country, to build the future worthy of our children, to defend the public interest, the academic freedoms, and to leave behind once and for all the phenomena of wrestling. I am very sorry that officials of SYRIZA have been identified in the past few days with the bazaars, at the same time that we have to return our universities to teachers, students and administrative staff, but above all we must respect every euro tax paid by the Greek taxpayer. I have heard in this Chamber that good legislation is being shattered. I would like to refer my colleagues to the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament, where in the second part it clearly states that the acts of legislation currently in force have been submitted on 4 November and may be ratified. But do you want to talk about the amendment on the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation? Do you not want to upgrade the EKAV, the supply of two new, modern helicopters to cover the area, the remote areas, the island of Greece? Do you not want, ladies and gentlemen, the upgrading of our military aircraft, the Air Force, the F16, the upgrading of the domestic defence industry, through the F16 military aircraft upgrade programme and, above all, the safeguarding of our workers' jobs in the defence industry? Ladies and gentlemen, is there anyone in this Chamber who does not want to reduce drug prices, protect the main residence? Ladies and gentlemen, one could say a lot about this draft law of the Ministry of Finance. But let me give a title, the real title of this bill. The Government of New Democracy has reflexes, has a plan, has a vision and, above all, has a speed that your left-wing idealism cannot follow. And I wonder. Will you now vote against support measures for workers affected by the bankruptcy of ThOMAS COOK or positive measures relating to the distribution tax, VAT? But let me turn to the Greek citizens from this step and tell them that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis gives real opportunities. He gave opportunity to the tax debtors, to the debtors of the insurance funds, but there is another opportunity for those who owe them to municipalities and to legal entities of municipalities. They may, until 31 December 2019, apply for the favorable arrangement and, if they have not confirmed them, they may, until 29 November, certify them, with a generous exemption of surcharges and late payment interest for both the one-off payment and the settlement of their debts up to a hundred instalments. But this bill, ladies and gentlemen, shows the way to defend the public interest. With the abolition of the NOME tenders of PPC, the PPC's state of affairs and the damage to the pockets of each Greek household, the SYRIZA government must apologise. Today, the SYRIZA party must do so. The bill, however, protects the Hymittos, by extending the suspension of construction work, but also by the Special Scientific Committee on Climate Change. It gives an extension of time for forest maps until 31 November. I close, Mr President, by saying that today Greek citizens see the difference. They see the differences between yesterday and today, they see every day, they feel the carelessness of the Tsipra - Kammenos government and the maturity of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Mostly, they understand that we have not come here to divide the Greek people, but to unite the Greek people. But it takes steps quickly, steady steps, substance steps and our opponent in this great effort, in any case it is time. Greece is reconstituted internationally and gaining its lost credibility. Our Greek economy is finally standing at its feet and our country is becoming a crossroad of investment and substantial growth. In order to achieve all this, however, our Parliament must legislate properly, in good time and in good time. And within this framework is the current legislation, which I call upon all the governments of the Greek Parliament to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u435	Mr. Boubas Konstantinos has the floor from the Greek Solution for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u436	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to manage as much time as I can, as the issues are too much. Luckily, I'm talking a little fast, but let's see what we're going to do. Let me start a little bit from PPC. For NOME auctions, it's probably predominant to competing companies. If we go to the past of this company, you will see that PPC until 1950 founded in a Public Power Corporation purchased four hundred private companies, so that it would be a national electricity grid for all Greeks, not only for patricks, horsemen at the time, but also for patrons. And he's coming now where he'll compete with a number of seventeen companies. So we are selling this national network out. Because it's energy, and when you sell energy, you sell airports, you sell nuclei of your national status, you don't have independence, you don't have a future as a country. This is because it is a Memorandum of Understanding and I call on the New Democracy to tell us. The Memorandum of Understanding is the liberalisation of the energy market and also that PPC will reduce its capital by 50% over the next few years. It is a Memorandum of Understanding 2020. Mountain tumor, talking about self-evidently, is protected by NATURA. Once the scholar Dimitris Campourglou said it was the mountain that separates Athens in two places. On the one hand it is the place of the spirit and on the other hand the place of alcohol because of the vineyards. What is the New Democracy's policy on mountain tumors? Over twenty-two university studies have been carried out to support mountainous tumors, to increase youth entrepreneurship there without harming fauna and flora. I'll leave the C.E.L.D., if I can make it for later. We are going to ELSTAT, ladies and gentlemen, which has not been heard by any Member of Parliament about ELSTAT. It is a statistical company as a legal person governed by public law belonging to the House. Established in 1956. I am sure the officials must be paid overtime, but we must also get ELSTAT's data. He's not Mr. Muzalas here saying that during the Greek solution he will not get to Greece. It erases, ladies and gentlemen, Greece. The latest 2018 figures refer to 86,000 births, 120,000 deaths. By 2030, we will shrink about six million, and we will do nothing with demographic policy. I'm going to protect your main residence because there are fouls. There is a point to protect the tile of the Greek biopatient, the Greek side. Woe and alas if we harm the Greeks' burn for the tiles they've put in. And what's that? They change the income criteria if someone finds a job to pay a higher dose. So far, because she was in a weakness of payment. But the work he finds, in the contract he signs, is a certain amount of time. So in the system, as it is, there are court decisions that throw him out. So why should he not be able, without large, but with concise procedures, to enter the regulation? Do you understand what's going on? If anyone today can pay a dose and find a better job, I'm sure he can pay more. It is, however, a matter of time. So not to endure the Greek vifactor, landlord. Protect the first residence of Greece otherwise, such as the goddess Themida, is not only a goddess of trial, it is also a goddess of the prophet, and the goddess Themida is also a goddess. He had made the Mutes and Hours the daughters of Zeus and Heaven and we cannot insult the house of Greek and there is no justice. Because he had other children, he had Themida's way and trial, to see the lawyers for Themida, Zeus' second wife in mythology. Let's go to the investment plans a little. When we talk about poachers, you call us extremes. Here you recognise that these are problematic areas that have received a large influx of illegal encroachments. So you admit it to make investment projects. You know that reminds me when we're all sensitive to the environment, but when we talk about recycling waste - I don't parallel, to God - we say away from us and where it wants to be! Go buy a house next to a hot spot. Is someone doing it? He's only talking. Because both his commercial and objective value have been taken and taken down. I come to the subject of 'Thomas COOK'. Since May, sworn accountants have said that the company that is not harmonized in the new environment in a different way from the tour operators would have collapsed and no one did anything. And what are these incentives given to those who were fired at the 'Thomas COOK'? With one month is the panacea of the matter? Give tax incentives to hotel owners to hire these fired Greek workers who, with all inclusive people, have cleared the market in the field of large tourist facilities and cannot be worked by the 'producers', i.e. the other shops in the tourist areas. On the subject of hospital suppliers, I will say it goes without saying that they have to pay. But before I go to that, I'm going to go to the towns debt issue. So you say that they must be paid by legal and natural persons. Many found themselves in a weakness of payment. I'm sure they'll have to be paid. Is the state that owes the municipalities the traffic tax, the beer tax, and all that has not been paid is the poor payer? But he doesn't want self-government. He wants heterosexuality. Let's see that, too. Shall we go to aquaculture? But aquaculture is the country's future for students from Moudania that was closed by the school and went to Messolongi. In the next few years by 2020 70%, as the report says, will be through aquaculture. So there is a future for aquaculture. Where is a business plan for aquaculture that today in Greece shows that 78% is exported? There are a lot of things I would like to talk about. Let me go to the matter of forest cooperatives that are not protecting the work of a forest worker? They have to go under another regime. You know, the timber dealer can't be part of a forest cooperative and right. But the forester who collects and dry leaves will see to it that the anti-nuclear areas are in need of a special framework of cooperatives. Should we go to what the Italians, in a program, called aqua corretivo, a health tourism? Here is why it is very essential and I am addressing the Minister and the State Secretary - who is also my coordinator - for rural development. The geothermality where it can help? And we as Greek Solution call the primary sector, the development of greenhouses. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, know that taking hot water from geothermality is not a renewable source of energy but a mining source? Do you realize that this is the Institute of Geological and Mining Research involved? So how are we going to go to the thermal tourism that we now have 156 thermal sources in Central Greece, 115 in Macedonia, 114 in the Peloponnese and 100 in Crete? Do you understand? Give weight to geothermals to go to greenhouses... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And in the hotel accommodation that is in remote areas, where young couples went to remote villages and you make them be at the Hotel Chamber of Greece, well do, but help not to end there. For those couples who went to remote villages of Aesthetic Greece keep tourism even a few days that they can have tourism. So other criteria have to be in place. There are other issues that we can raise, but because of a lack of time I stop here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u437	Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u438	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I place myself on points of today's debate, I would like to make an introductory remark, which, in my view, will also be a broader political comment. Because many of the New Democracy colleagues, and also they have been conceived by Parliament's colleagues today and in the previous days and in the committees, but also on radios and televisions, have opened up an issue of how a coordinate favoured state first means feeling of strengthening security for the citizens, but also how a state, a state, contributes and promotes the preservation of social peace, I think, in a way, we have lost the sense of the measure, but also often we move away from what the world would call common sense. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is obvious and self-evident that when there are violations and unlawful behaviours within universities, these should obviously be treated as such. But it is another thing to think that you contribute to maintaining social peace when police forces are asymmetrically engaged in certain students, when there are bodies of order that drag students from the hair assailing the students as bad guys or assailing the whole world that it could be a world that will later develop offense behaviour. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think you contribute to maintaining social peace when you enter a recreational area, put two hundred children on the floor with your hands on the head and think that this is how you inspire the sense of security. I also believe that something else does not maintain social peace when you adopt provisions that promote impunity and impunity to people who have a privileged relationship with the business world, but also with the political system. And I am obviously talking about the provision that establishes the impunity for bank executives, which may be subject to the crime of felony infidelity. Nor does this, on the other hand, contribute to social peace. I therefore think that we should speak as a political system with an unequivocal awareness of the measure. But let me also come to the piece of the bill in advance and say that I will only develop the part concerning the JET, because I think all the other provisions have been developed by my colleagues. I think there are many points that one might point to the new government. But one thing that I recognize you is that you are original with this provision that you bring for the CDEH again proves your originality. Know that you are the only government that since the founding of the CECH, with its self-government guaranteed, legally since 1983, I repeat that you are the only government that has been trying to abolish the self-government and impose this new way of administration that you are somehow characterizing it as more normal. In fact, your government again in 2013, under Prime Minister Samaras, had confirmed the self-employed of the CDE by a law of 2013. You did so by means of an extremely urgent legislative act. And I think, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it is at least politically naive to equate the urgent issues, such as the collapse of 'THOMAS COOK', which is a time bomb and threatens thousands of Greek companies, with the management model of the CDE which has been a model for four decades since it has not created any black holes, it has not received any loans, it has not been linked to scandals and, indeed, it has been classified by the General Accounting Office itself with an degree of degree of practical. And here you have to make a decision. Because a structure of one hundred and ten actually showed some phenomena of incompetence and mismanagement, or we'll say that under this structure, the whole ERCF, its entire route, was a man of mismanagement and arbitraryness, or you'll welcome yourself to reality and you'll accept that all administrations of the ERCF have indeed created a model over these years. Instead of doing so, you separate administration from the workers and directly question the ability and experience of the administrative staff that the CEFD has made and are today with huge success rates, in the fight against drug dependence. I often see you rejoice and celebrate in all your public expressions, saying that you have had a huge degree of readiness, depending on the speed you are running, from the day you take up your duties, public bodies and, more generally, the state. The issue, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is not just the speed with which you are running, but we also need to see the world with which you manage all the public structures. And with regard to the world you choose, I think that if someone sits down and describes the choices you have made, with the pretext of what is called the "final state", you will restore an old logic to the political system and the things through which the Greek public administration is formed. What do I mean? Ferrer (PSE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report. You realise that we are reintroducing the old logic of facing the public interest as a spoil, so that in all its structures we can place people of our own choice. So the CECH, ladies and gentlemen, was based on the self-government model which allowed it to remain unreserved, unaffected by governmental changes and political interventions and consistently committed to its social mission. I think you did hear these huge reactions from all over the world, from the healing communities, from the workers, from the friends of the CEDEFOP against your action. I think, however, that you have heard him a little distorted, because you have recruited, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, once again, a friendly tactic, that of slander and nullification. So you used exposure data for irregularities in one hundred and ten structures of the CECH, in another attempt to justify unjustified. The way you deal with these elements, however, ladies and gentlemen, I think they are going against you, because they come from an internal audit of the CDEH, proving, once again, that the management model that operates only identifies pathogens and heals itself. We've got a great structure of C.E.L.D. on Volos. I've visited her too many times. His workers, his administrative staff, try every day and fight real, along with parents, against drug addictions and all other dependencies. And all this world, all this time, not only is concerned, but has opposed this decision. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that all these parents, all these workers, all these people who really testify to their souls, want what you say, that is, the CDE as an organization that has misery and mismanagement? I don't think so. All these people, respecting the route of the CEDEFOP, embrace it and recognize one thing in his administration, that all these years he has managed to create a model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u439	Mr. Andreas Poulas has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the act of legislation abolished by the self-employed of the CEDEFOP has caused and caused a number of reactions. The reactions were many and intense, as, in the thirty - two years of operation, no one has ever questioned it. To date, the Ministry of Health has rather exercised a loose supervision, leaving the administrative and operational initiative in this. By adopting the act of legislation, the Government has managed to conflict with the sensitive social group of dependents. And the question is, why? A few people are convinced of the arguments about irregularities and economic irregularities. The findings of the audit report which he read in the Committee on Social Affairs are observed by the Minister in the operation of most public bodies. The rating given to the CDE by the General Accounting Office of the State as a public body is not negative. Do you need an improvement? We won't argue. Also, few are persuaded by SYRIZA’s attempt to work politically with the Cytheas, assembling by contract the defence of his self-government. This is because the Ministry of Health has been embarrassing, inaction, to develop policies to deal with dependency. If, then, we want to say things by their name, the lifting of the self - control is linked to the attempt to control the administration of the CEDEFOP. At the moment, the objections from both sides are only hurting the body and destroying its credibility in the eyes of the public. So I wonder who's going to get won by a crashed and socially unreliable CTE? On the substance, the Government seeks to control both its administration and the management of its EUR 20 million budget. In order to achieve this, he has brought the act of legislation quickly and abusively, as it was neither an urgent nor exceptional issue that could be solved differently. The Legislative Act deals with issues such as the appointment by the Minister of all the members of the Agency's administration, without specifying their evaluation process, the reduction of the members of the Management Board from eleven to seven, the parallel increase in their term of office from two to three years, the provision of remuneration in the Special and Explanatory Report. You have also reinstated the provisions for the purpose and resources of the CSTD that were omitted from the original act of law. All this does not constitute substantial interventions and does not improve any pathogens. On the contrary, they create an administrative crisis that may result in the decline of the CDE itself. The Change Movement is against both the government's and the major opposition's political tactics. This includes the statement by the Minister of Health earlier, on the establishment of a working group headed by the national coordinator for the immediate examination of the issues of the CEDEFOP. We in the Change Movement, in order to provide a solution to the issue of the organization's self-government, have proposed the creation of an eleven-member administration, with the participation of the members proposed by the Minister, the representatives of the workers, the families of the healed and the scientific bodies. This Board will work in transition until the national coordinator reaches the conclusion, in order to hold public consultation and debate in Parliament on the most effective way of running the organisation, which will ensure the implementation of quality therapeutic programmes. The CEDEFOP is a project of PASOK, which since 1987 gave voice, roof and selfishness to dependent individuals to take the responsibility of their healing programs themselves. We recognise, however, that it is not possible today to deal with this area on the same terms that have dictated its establishment thirty-two years ago. The fight against dependency is not a matter of political control and strict management of resources. We want a state that prevents itself from protecting its citizens from any kind of dependency. It is the responsibility of the Greek Parliament to draw up a long-term national strategy in this direction. Finally, the issue of the pricing of medicinal products introduced by this amendment is a major one and arouses the country politically and economically, which is why we need to come to a national strategy on the medicine and not to temporary and fragmentary solutions. Of course, the amendment prohibiting increases in drug prices may seem to be in the right direction, but, Minister, the market is in danger of staying on first-line medicines because, as you well know, the shortcomings in the drugs that are happening at times in our country are due to the parallel exports of medicinal products made by pharmaceutical stores and pharmaceuticals in countries that are most advantageous. This creates an artificial shortage which leads IFET to buy the same medicine at a higher price to meet the needs of the Greek market. Have you taken this seriously? I would also remind you that no increases in invoiced medicines have been allowed since 2012, except in the event of correction of previous errors. By 2019 the reference medicinal products under the protection regime shall be defined as the average of the three lowest values of the same medicinal product in terms of the active substance, pharmaceutical form, content and packaging in the Member States of the European Union. SYRIZA suddenly overturned the situation and voted with a late amendment to Rule 161 of Law 4600/2019, which has caused a strong response both to our and to the New Democracy. I would remind you that as an opposition you described this provision as a gift for pharmaceuticals and from what I have heard today, you have used this as an argument in the pre-examination committee. So what has Article 161 introduced? The maximum net producer price is defined as the average of the two lowest different prices in the Member States, not of the European Union, but of the Eurozone. In fact, the price reductions that were due to this SYRIZA provision cannot be achieved because the Eurozone countries belong to the European Union and therefore the price calculation of medicines based on the cheapest countries in the euro area cannot result in cheaper prices than those they have up to now. Any reductions will be due to the delay in issuing a new price sheet and a possible reduction in prices in the cheapest countries in the euro area during this period. This amendment is a rough attempt to deal with an already distorting situation in the pricing of medicines. The system shall not withstand any further fragmentary arrangements. The process of finding a mechanism for rationalising and checking prices must be speeded up so that the prices of medicines can also be restrained, that the pharmaceutical companies in our country are left with jobs and that there is no shortage of medicines on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u441	Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u442	Ladies and gentlemen, I am carefully following the process as it is evolving and I do see something that proves what we have often said in this Chamber: Management of the opposition speech by SYRIZA is a monument of hypocrisy and I would also say a solid exercise and an attempt to oppose reality. He said earlier, Mr. Syriza, SYRIZA representative of the Cyclades, that the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panagiotopoulos brought an amendment to the question of upgrading the F16. He said that he brought it in the form of the amendment, and there should be another type of procedure for such a serious issue, that of upgrading the F16. The memories are fresh, ladies and gentlemen, and we must remember this - when Mr Kammenos brought about compensatory benefits of EUR 230 million in this Chamber - I am tabling the relevant document - and thankfully Mr Apostolakis' successor never brought it into this Chamber, after the orchestra that existed, with all that recommended the practice at that time. [[At this point, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Davakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let us not say other amendments which surprised the rapporteurs of the parties and which were more than a good piece of legislation that this government has finally implemented. Why does he apply the good law? Firstly, this arrangement that Mr Panagiotopoulos brought is a legal condition of the Ministry of Finance and comes to a bill from the Ministry of Finance to the National Delegation. Secondly, the main contract is validated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of your own government. I am talking about what Mr Armalene has denounced the New Democracy. Thirdly, Nikos Panayotopoulos himself, the Minister of National Defence, said the government would bring the whole of the amendment on F16 to the National Representation for discussion. What cleaner can we say? I have said on other occasions that you represent the bad mother-in-laws for issues that give breath to our national and defence industry, stimulate EAB, which will take part in the construction project on F16 and give a good prospect to our country's many defensive industry. I shall refer to only two amendments, ladies and gentlemen. One has to do with F16, which, as I said before, is an important part of the general issue of our country's defence. They are upgraded, as the Minister of National Defence said, to a viper and give a substance to issues relating to the defence of our airspace. I will also say about the very serious intervention that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has already made and continues to do on our country's health map. I would therefore like to express my great thanks from this Stepma as a representative of the people of Laconia, with whose vote I am here, and I am speaking to you at the moment, because under Amendment No 83/14, which is an item - a station on the health situation in Laconia, a new hospital will be set up at costs, with care, at the expense of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. As many of his colleagues have to know, the great Stavros Niarchos came from Laconia, and in this regard it seems that his offspring and his associates do not forget the place of origin of the founder and attribute the foodstuffs, as they once said, to this place, which actually has enormous health problems. I believe that the upgrading of the health structures of Laconia with this intervention of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will enhance both the economic and tourist life of the country and give a better perspective to many issues that have to do with the return of young children, which we want to return to their country. The Hospital of Sparta is a critical infrastructure and I believe that this holistic solution offered by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will be an intersection on health issues for our country. Of course, here I can only testify to the bitterness which all of us Lakkos feel, because by decision and the legitimisation of the previous government, and especially Mr Gavroglou, the Sparta Nursing School left and went to Tripoli. The new Sparta Hospital, which will be held by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, would be a very important practice exercise for new students in nursing, but the school is now in Tripoli, and I hope and hope that the new government will restore what has unfortunately been done, and the computer version has also come out. I'm glad the Deputy Minister of Health is in the Chamber. I would like to say, Mr Secretary-General, that with this important intervention from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the hands of the state are solved with regard to the various financial instruments, in order to look at other issues on the Laconia health map, such as the Molai Hospital, which wants more organisation and staffing, such as the operation on a 24-hour basis of the EKAV of Molaeans, such as the Centre for the Health of Castorio, such as the establishment of an EKAV station in Naples, which is the most important part of the continental Europe. And there in Kavo Malia and in the wider region, in my view, I had said it to the previous political leadership, perhaps Mr Xanthos and Mr Paulakis remembered, there was a significant intervention in the EAW in the region. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that matters relating to the national defence strategy and to our aviation industry are very important and that is what stimulates them and gives a good perspective the amendment which was previously analysed by the Minister for National Defence. I think Mr Panagiotopoulos is currently undertaking a huge case, which is about upgrading our country's air fleet. F-16 is an important weapon that has an important, I would say, intervention in the defence strategy of our country. I believe that their upgrading, in addition to its enormous national importance, will give - I say again - a great hemorrhaging in the Greek Air Industry, because - I say again - it will take part in the construction work which is facilitated by the exemption from customs duties, as the amendment of the various sections, of the quorums, as the technical term, which will come from abroad, says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u443	Thank you. Mr. Andreas Blonde from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u444	Ladies and gentlemen, there are two issues I would like to focus on. One is the long-discussed intervention at the CEDEFOP, the abolition of the self-employed. The other is the amendment which the government has put forward for a significant change in the pricing of medicinal products, which we have adopted. A lot of things have been said about the CTE. I think it is quite clear that the government has made a move towards extreme political extremism, indulgence to people who do not like them who would be elected and not, obviously, be appointed by a democratic, open and participatory process that has always been foreseen for the election of an administration of the CEEC. The retrospective attempt to find a squeeze to justify this intervention, in my view, was perpetrated and extended unreliability and lack of sensitivity on the part of the government. However, what, in my view, was more disturbing is the way in which it attempted to justify this intervention. It was not just the goal, which was the ultimate party and governmental control. I think particularly of the people of the CITES, but also a large part of society, which is sensitive to democratic functions and respects work and effort and the labour of decades, people who are struggling to come out of the difficult and vicious cycle of dependency, has annoyed the way. There was indeed a public slander of this body and we saw it here today. The Minister said so again. There were the same references to mismanagement, monsters and signs. That was the expression today: Monsters and signs describe the findings. The findings, as analysed by everyone, are either an internal audit procedure, or are the usual suggestions and recommendations made by the General Accounting Office of the State to all controlled public bodies. I think it is really very disgraceful for people's intelligence to believe that by smuggling, deporting and shaking in this way bodies, people with such an important social presence and action you can impose good administration, that there is a climate of calm, that this terrible crisis in which you have put this institution and its people over and over a month and a half. I think it is also insulting for our intelligence to come and tell us that you are supporting this body, that you support its self-government, that you are giving responsibilities to the general assembly, that you want to help him develop his action and his programmes, etc. Decentralize this body, because we have often explained that it was in his DNA that this participatory function, the active involvement of the dependents, the healers, the therapists, their families in this process. I think that the most important political issue is that you have no plans for dependency. You do not have an approach to public policies in the field of rehab. You told us today, and the Minister presented it to us as something very innovative, that you will instruct the national coordinator to lead an independent committee that will produce national planning. These are legal in law at Law 4139/2013. It was your law, of the Samara Government, which says that there is the institution of the national coordinator, which under the national coordinator is a national planning and coordination committee that faces and produces a national project. You don't have to make any independent committees or anything, the law needs to work. That is why we have put an excellent and remarkable man who came from the United Kingdom with huge experience in the field of dependency. We really believe that it can compose strategies, programmes, plans, which were in place by all the supervised bodies, to a single structured and coherent national plan. That is the objective, and that is what you need to go ahead. We did too much in this direction. We have broadened the approach to dependence, including alcohol and the Internet and gambling, there has been a synergy between operators over all these difficult years, strengthened with human resources, eighty permanent recruitments in the field of dependency, when there were over ten to twelve years, even before the crisis, sites of supervised use, and we have certainly also emphasised the reduction of damage, because we, ladies and gentlemen, do not consider that there are good and bad programmes. There are bodies that each of them has his/her science, his/her history, culture, social - say - perception and that all of them are useful, depending on the needs of each dependant, because not all dependants have the same needs. We have made interventions in support of social reintegration, we have established the Social Integration Cooperatives, the Commonwealths, which are something like communautaire or the Commonwealth of Integration. It is precisely so that there is a prospect for these people to be able after the painful process of defiance to be properly reintroduced. So I think that you have really been exposed irreparably. You have created a toxic climate, and I think you have put in a very large and prolonged crisis and instability not only the system of the CECH, but I am also afraid of the whole system of public addiction policies. Mr President, let me also take a little time to say two things about the sensitive subject of pharmaceutical policy, which often comes back and returns. The Minister told us...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u445	Finish it, please. You have a very small tolerance, because the time is very long ago and they are even other colleagues, they are the seconds of the rapporteurs. You have one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u446	I won't abuse. So what's the real picture? The New Democracy maintains the same mechanism, the same architecture, the same structure in the pricing policy that SYRIZA legislated, making a huge cubism. And what we had not heard on those days from New Democracy and from its leading officials and from former Ministers, unfortunately, also from colleagues of the Change Movement. We were therefore told about the change in the basis of reference and the migration into the basket of euro area countries, with which, of course, these euro countries, we want to go hand in hand as a country. We have fought a great battle, and we have succeeded in our country standing upright, equitable and decent in the euro area. This was a huge success for the Greek people and, of course, for the government that completed the Memorandum. The theory that the euro area is the rich zone and the 28 countries of the European Union is the poor zone is obviously not the case. In the euro area there are countries from the former socialist camp - they are the Baltic countries, they are Slovenia, they are Slovakia - and in the non-euro area they are the United Kingdom, they are Sweden, they are Denmark, countries with the highest economic and social level and, of course, with high prices of medicines. Therefore, these are communications arguments. In our speech, we made a plan, made the system more transparent, because they have a single currency, it is easier to compare prices, more stable and more sustainable, and there was a 3.6% cut in average prices that existed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u447	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u448	I'm closing, Mr. President. So what are you doing? We predicted a 10% reduction. You did it 7%. And you say you freeze the increases. You should know that these increases in the dramatic majority involved cheap drugs that have a price below the minimum price of the Eurozone and the increases that would be made were of the order of 70 and 80 minutes. The aim was precisely to remain cheap, generic by ownership drugs, domestically produced, to support both domestic production and the development of the country and its productive reconstruction, for which you are cut, and this, in our view, is a risk. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour of this amendment, but while maintaining these reservations and stressing that it is not just a question of pricing policy, it is an overall question of evaluation, which concerns the negotiation of protocols. These are the steps that we have taken, and that ensures that an appropriate medicine is at the cheapest price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u449	Thank you. Mr. Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we regret to note that we are once again in another very good piece of legislation of the New Democracy staff. It has not been three months since the final state was celebrating and we have a bill that has infinite amendments, scorpions and three vague acts of legislation. Congratulations! Ultimate state to its best! And legislative acts at a time when there was a legislative initiative in this House, which could come as amendments to be voted on and discussed. They have produced results and you are coming today to ratify them. So what does the Constitution say in Article 44(1)? It says that we need to deal with exceptional cases and extremely urgent issues, particularly if there is no debate, if there is no legislative initiative in this House. We would therefore expect, in particular, to say on 'THOMAS COOK', that you have incorporated regulations that would really be a breathtaking effect for businesses in the tourism sector created by the collapse of 'THOMAS COOK', because we know very well that this collapse of this colossus created a domino problem and a risk of survival for a number of businesses, but much more has brought hundreds of workers into employment insecurity. Are the arrangements that you brought in in good time? Oh, no. Are they sufficient and are they dealing with the problem? The institutions responded: No. What do you predict? Suspension of payment of VAT for those who have been affected until March, as if until March, when hotels are closed, will find money to pay after the VAT. These companies will continue to owe and in March they will have to pay this money, those companies that have been affected, which have a financial problem. What do you tell them in these businesses? ‘We are exempting you from the residence tax’. But the same bodies have said that it is a welcome provision, but it does not solve the problem. You are also going through some minor arrangements for workers who are retrospectively retrospective. Your predictions are lacking and eventually make a hole in the water and give the feeling that you are not listening, you have heard nothing in the committees and you have no contact with the real needs of the industry. How are you expecting only by suspending the payment of VAT that you are enacting, since, as I said before, they will not have generated revenue in March 2010? How will they pay him VAT? Entrepreneurs know very well that this cannot relieve them, you do not aim to strengthen business liquidity, you simply take administrative measures. Really, what about the invoices that won't be paid for? Is there going to be some setback? Will you do something? These people will pay VAT for invoices and taxes for those invoices that have not been paid. And that way? But the best thing is that you are telling us that you have acted in legislative terms for the workers and you are putting a joint ministerial decision, which you said would come out in twenty-four hours and never came out. When are you going to make this joint ministerial decision so that workers can finally get the unemployment benefit? And finally, why did you not provide for any safety tests, so that only those undertakings that do not have outstanding obligations to be included in the acts of the legislative instrument? And when will the OAED programme, which you have taken a decision from the OAED Board and are waiting for the ministerial decision to put the support programme into place for four and a half thousand full-time jobs for the employees of companies affected by this bankruptcy? Finally, it turns out that in the first crisis in the tourism sector you have passed under the bar. You couldn't manage it. You have shown flaw, delay and lack of coordination, but also lack of political will to offer the most developmental part of the Greek economy. Even now you can incorporate our proposals and bring real support and relief, by succeeding in overthrowing the negative consequences of the bankruptcy of what is called 'THOMAS COOK'. Of course, when we talk about a model of good legislature, it is also your predictions of the JETD, where we see the simple thing: The government, if it cannot subjugate an independent authority, is simply partying it. Any structure that can't control, partisanization. The decision to abolish the self-government status of the CEDEFOP is a regulation with authoritarian and completely party logic which is part of an act of legislative content that does not justify urgency. And what's the point? Decouple a decade-long projector without prior consultation and without informing the participants. What was the emergency and what was the emergency in your decision? Is that the evidence that Mr Kikilias came in here and showed us that the State General Accounting Office said that - did Mr. Paulakis said before - they did not upload the decision-making in the "DIAGY"? That's a hell of a crime! We must condemn them for that. Or did this inner finding made by the CTEH itself, which includes personal data and came here holding it, public view, Mr. Kikilias, instead of going to the prosecutor, a finding that was made through the CTE's own internal control procedures? Because you thought by hitting SYRIZA, you'd hit SYRIZA. You said that anyway. You spoke about a left-wing hegemony policy at the level of dealing with dependency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Your aim is to create impressions about alleged CEDEFOP-type scandals and show that everyone is the same, while you have not hesitated to degrade an institution that has since 1983 been an assistant, fellow, protector, protector of thousands of families and individuals against dependencies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not all the same. We'll never be the same. And as much as you're trying to rinse your story, you're bored with "SIEMENS", you're bored with "NOVARTIS", you're bored with ERIC, sea-loves, "KERYKA MANIA", police domination, the abolition of asylum and now the dismantling of the ERCF. We're not the same!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u451	Mr. Emmanuel Thraniotis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the multi-legislative draft of the Ministries of Finance, the Environment and Energy, where interest has almost been one-sided by the act of legislation that abolished the self-government of the CEDEFOP. The multiplier also contains important provisions that characterise the closure of the eye in one direction. "FINANCIAL TIMES" points out in their current article: "Why does Greece stop following international anti-corruption practices and money laundering?" Evidently this news and other similar news will not be seen in your friendly media, because you have made sure to create a veil of silence about it. As the channel of Parliament, which was the only perhaps objective media, you made sure to convert it into a party propaganda instrument. And anyone who has doubts about this should refer to the Saturday 9-11-2019 briefing on parliamentary work. And he'll find out the truth. It will be noted that during the debate on a timely question, for example, the citizen only listens to the Minister's question and answer, while on a voluntary basis the secondary and the opposite is removed. There are too many examples of counter-population censorship. For what? Of course, the act of legislation adopted on September 30 and abolishing the self - control of the KETHEA fell like a lightning in an atmosphere. Even authors, who do not belong to SYRIZA, were surprised. The abolition of the self-managed vehicle without informing anyone or a collective body is an act of political authoritarianism, aimed at suffocating the control of a self-managed vehicle but obviously also of great economic interest to individuals. It'll hit the CTE's healing model violently. A model based on the principles of self-organisation, collectiveness and institutionalised participation of workers, the cured and their families in the selection of his administration. A body that has been proven for forty years to offer social totality. That is why we are asking ourselves why we have abolished the self-employed. The reason is, quite simply, why you didn't control it. And because you think that everything that's not with you is against you, you're trying to slander it, to deceive it to the public. That is exactly what the majority rapporteur has tried to do today. He dedicated half of his speech to the CECH, because he realizes that the consortium who rose up from your actions is not easily devoured. That's why you're using an internal audit that caused the CSTH itself in the context of self-control. So you get the report from the General Accounting Office of the State with observations and you discovered the scandal of the century, as if it were analogous to the "NOVARTIS" scandal.The General Accounting Office of the State in the context of its audit, uses a rating system with a scale of 1 to 5, with the 1 being considered a good rating. In his report, therefore, he evaluates the operation of the KETHE with 2 and makes comments when other organisations such as the Municipality of Athens, regions and others scored by 3. It should be noted that the average score of the twenty-six audited bodies averaged 2.6. Better scores, therefore, and therefore better management than the average. It should also be noted that many of the comments and recommendations were taken into account by the Board. and improved. So what's the matter with all the fuss, beyond what the Minister of Health confessed to wanting to put an end to the left-wing hegemony in the field of dependency? In other words, you recognize, Minister, that our party has nothing to show in this area, and on the contrary, your party has nothing to show. You must also bear in mind that this is not done by an act of legislation, but by work and consistency. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also articles which - as our rapporteur pointed out - will be voted on. There, however, where our opinions are divided and opposing, they are on energy and management issues, for example PPC. And here's no originality. Election by the Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, was a disaster. On July 13, one week after the elections, PPC says it has no money to buy any columns. And she mentions in a dramatic style how she fights so the country doesn't stay in the dark. On 20 July it states that there is no solution for PPC. He's not a bourgeoisie, because SYRIZA devalued her, led her to the destruction. On July 23, a weighted average increase is announced in PPC tariffs by 16.5%, with a view to collecting 500 million euros. On September 24th, two months later, he announces that they made it. He states: "From 7 July we worked methodically and we did it." Let's see what you got. PPC announces that the results of the first half of 2019 were in a positive direction, so its prospects are positive. Here, then, strange things happen. What exactly did the Minister do, since the results were in the first half of the year and - if I am not mistaken - the government in the first half of the year was the triumphant SYRIZA and Minister Stathakis? I guess the Minister managed to get back in time, so he deserves to be offered a Nobel Prize for Physics, since he worked hard for the first semester he managed to make profits for PPC! Mr President, I cannot comment on the events of days and police intervention in ASEAN. And for the intervention I refer to Mrs Helena Akrita's statement, a well-known journalist, entitled 'Blue them', referring to the statement by the president of special guards, that a policeman is the only one who has the democratic and constitutional right to be beaten. And it refers to Articles 1b and 2d, where it is expressly stated that the policeman must respect the right to life and guarantee the personal security of citizens. But who to first gather? The president of the special guards or Mr. Voridis, who declares that the wood is an element of forcedness or the special guard who provoked the student's shield?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u453	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u454	Allow me, Mr President, to conclude by ending a reference to the abolition of newly established university departments. Lassithi was brutally affected by this decision. Two flagship schools designed to have synergy between them and to boost the development perspective of the county, are being abolished. With this decision you are turning us back in the first stone years of the memoranda. All you can say about this act is your wages! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u455	We are completing the position of fellow Members with Mr Kavvada from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the country now has a new model of governance and legislation. It is time for the legislative process to obtain documentation, focus on improving the institutional framework and real problems. And that's what's happening. The Government of New Democracy has directly demonstrated retrospectively on the issue of the bankruptcy of ‘THOMAS COOK’. It went directly to the legislative act of 25 September, which the House is called upon to ratify today. The exemption from the residence tax for hotel operators and accommodations concluded with ThOMAS COOK for the period from 23 September to 10 October is hereby introduced. An important breath for these enterprises is, however, the fact that, in the next article of the Act of Legislative content, the Government is suspending the payment of VAT confirmed by debit declarations with a deadline of 30-9-2019 and 30-10-2019 for the companies that traded with the company ‘THOMAS COOK’. At the same time, there is provision for the exemption of undertakings up to 31-32020 from possible late payment of VAT for the period from 1 to 30 September. There is no doubt that there are substantial movements of support as far as possible for firms affected by the bankruptcy of this company. Many of these enterprises are also located in the Ionian Islands Region, while the consequences touched by Lefkada. Ensure, too, that workers in these enterprises are provided with specific support measures, such as the implementation of a programme by the OAU to maintain four and a half thousand full-time jobs. Employment to undertakings in the tourism sector affected by the bankruptcy of the company ThOMAS COOK by granting the equivalent of 100% of the employers' contributions and up to a maximum of EUR 500 per month for a period of 12 months. A substantial support measure is also a reduction in the number of persons required to pay an unemployment benefit from a hundred to eighty at the same time as extending the time of payment of the unemployment benefit by one month. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this government is to enable all citizens who have to respond to them by introducing brave arrangements. The one hundred and twenty instalments for the tax debts and the insurance funds had a positive impact and effect. Today comes this bill and extends until 31 December the time limit for entering into debt regulation with the local government agencies. Undoubtedly, one of the biggest problems we face at economic and social level is the management of red loans and, above all, that of protecting the first home. The Government of New Democracy has attempted since the first days of its term of office to face this great void in protecting the first residence. I would remind you that a joint ministerial decision by the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment and Labour and Social Affairs was signed on 29 August, which abolished the certificate of burdens which was an improper factor in making applications by citizens for their inclusion in the regulation on the protection of first residence. The draft law we are about to vote on today contains a number of improvements in the existing institutional framework for protecting the first home. And with great satisfaction we have all heard the Finance Minister announcing the abolition of other supporting documents so that the process can be made easier and faster for the citizens. In any case, however, the arrangements entered into the bill are positive. I shall refer to the provision whereby they are now allowed to apply for protection of their first residence and those who reside in a leased or licensed property outside the regional unit in which their principal residence is situated. It is a provision that gives a solution to the problem faced by military and public officials, such as teachers and doctors who are forced to stay in their homes. There are also different situations in which more owners of one are now treated, given the possibility of protecting the entire residence at the request of one joint owner alone. It shall be facilitated to apply in cases of debtors who are proven to be in a dimension by signing one of the two persons. It is possible to participate in the first residence arrangement for a lesser-age guarantor in cases of older debtors who have so far been unable to benefit from a twenty-five-year-old dose adjustment. Thus, if a debtor is seventy years old, it would have been subject to a ten-year arrangement, since under the European Banking Directives, no over eighty-year arrangement is provided. It will henceforth be possible to become a new contractor or a guarantor of a younger age, so that together they receive a twenty-five-year repayment that is the maximum provided by the law. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has positive provisions, it has a positive and substantial aim. The Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis faces the major problems of the country and does not move them forward. We are moving forward with optimism and determination and, above all, with the support of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u457	To conclude the debate on the bill, I will give the floor to any of the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives who want to give a reply, three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u458	Four minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u459	You will speak from your position and not on the Step, because we will lose time if you come up. Furthermore, the Rules of Procedure do not allow that. It's five minutes or more. Finally, one of the two Undersecretaries of Health will be closed for two minutes. Mr. Tsavdaridis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day a detailed debate is taking place in the committees and in the House on the many very important regulations of the draft approved by the New Democracy Government. This is a bill showing that the new government does not deal with slogans, but with deeds, it does not theorize, but raises the sleeves. But I sincerely regret when I see the SYRIZA rapporteur saying that the plan is doing authoritarian interventions, that it reveals the ideological political incests of the New Democracy, but also the building practices, the rebuilding of the blue flower state, or when it characterises my introduction with a fanatical reason for legal and order issues, which confuses the student's claim to hold a general meeting on champagne issues. Are you serious? Is it considered a fanatical reason for anyone talking about law and order? Well, Mr Papadopoulos, I'm afraid you're in deep error and I'm telling you that this government has been elected to put the country that you had left with ballast in order, and finally to apply the laws that you were voting on, but you were forging indifferently in their implementation. As for the argument that the New Democracy is confusing the student's claim to hold a general assembly on the issues of hamburgers, this is only a reminder. About what student claim are you talking about? Are you guys bringing them up to a set of students? And what do your children think about ASE's stalks and yachts, molotoves, chainsaws that break locks, bricks building teachers' offices, student beatings or teachers at universities, drug trafficking, lawlessness? For these your kids, did they ever have a general assembly to convict them? And after all, we have a passive asylum law and we also have a Senate decision to close the school. What are chain saws doing? And I'm closing up with one last thing, Mr. President. I consider it to be a monument to intervention on the staff of Mrs Fotou earlier. How did Mrs. Fotou argue? Making an ideological manifesto against fear that New Democracy is supposed to sow in society, so that, as a matter of fact, we can create a climate of war and terrorize citizens so that they don't get off on the course of the anniversary of 17 November. An ideological manifesto, an indirect call to youth to go on the road against a bad government, which, according to Mrs Fotius, wants to legitimise repression and rule by force. Mrs Fotou - you are absent - a little shame would not hurt. That's enough because you've been tired all these years. People have gone through this now. You stayed in 1970, forgot there, and you forgot you ruled. And I confess that the boulevard at the universities you're supporting is only compared to your government's bat for four and a half years. This mess every day New Democracy is called upon to face it and to house it every day with political boldness, with a lot of work and with determination it succeeds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u461	Mr. Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u462	University asylum did not exist in 1975, yet all the students of Aristotle's Medical School at a massive general assembly decided to take over the Medical School for three days. The general assembly spoke from representatives of the student party of New Democracy to left-wing organisations, who were ideologists, trotskyists, Maoists, supporters of Enver Hoxha. However, we have had an excellent discussion for three days. I was president at the general meeting. Melina Mercouri came and spoke and when we finished the general meeting in no way wanted, as during the occupation the police intervened, despite the fact that there was no university asylum. The school was delivered in white. We've packed up all the garbage, nothing has happened that reminds us of bullshit, as you say, because you said about left-wing perceptions. And they were ideologists who participated. They had nothing to do with the manufacture of molotovs, nor with axes, to get in touch with. This is to honour a little a timeless student movement that continues with reflections, with its own problems nowadays, but you're not going to put it in a cage. It can't be done. The student movement with all perceptions will continue to exist, will continue to claim general conventions to tell his opinion on important issues, as we have said about the issues of that period and we think this year's Polytechnic celebration will give answers to all of this and it will be peaceful. If, of course, these temptations to divert the authoritarian state do not give in. At the KEHO what is the central issue is that they cannot be at the same time, dear friends, and partisanly controlled administration and self-government. It can't be done. And they warn you about this, so that there is no lasting break, all the bodies taking part in the general meeting. What's your problem? And it seems on other issues. The election of Ms. Demetriou, who was former President of the Ice Bay, the temptation to smash her, as you are now doing with Ms. Toulouse and Mr. Juras and Mr. Manolis, the Prosecutor against Corruption, are issues which are a diversion from a respect for justice, which you in theory say you have, but in practice you do not have it, as in the issues that have been put in here with amendments. We think that answers he gave for the invoicing of drugs complete by Andreas Blondos I don't need to talk. For the protection of first residence, we are still waiting for an answer to be given if you have adopted those remarks we have made, and especially if people who want to defend their first residence are able to do so before they go to the funds. You did not give this answer, nor did you give it to the amendment made by KINAL, and which we had prepared until then a protective framework to give full answers to all the issues relating to non-strategic malpractices. For Article 3, I think we have given answers. For full and exclusive employment of the President of the CDEC, you have not given an answer. For the amendment of the Ministry of Rural Development, I think we are ending up with 'no', because they have not been given....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u463	You will see that in the vote. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u464	If that's the case, I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Katrinis has the floor for three minutes from the Movement of Change.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u466	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think we are reaching the end of a very interesting debate. Let me begin by saying that along with the bad legacy that characterises this bill, I think it was a bad turn for the debate. This is evidenced by the fact that many Members who signed the bill seem to have been interested in this, unfortunately have had to withdraw because of the need for dozens of Ministers to intervene in an emblem to justify the amendments they have also brought in emblems. I think we should at some point discuss this and correct it, because it offends those colleagues who have been waiting for hours to put themselves on the table. I think it is good that the tons have fallen into the ERCF. I think that despite any differences of opinion, and despite the fact that no gold incision has been found, a solution has been found that respects the history of the CSTD and enables the Government to implement another model of operation, I think it is very encouraging that the debate has moved to completely different tons from the Commission. I take this opportunity to talk about what the former Minister of Health mentioned, Mr Xanthos, who spoke about supervised stations for use, which I remember we were discussing in 2014. It has been four years to vote. They still haven't worked, Mr. Contozamani. And I'm saying it's because every time we have a public university thing, some people come out and say that drug trafficking is happening, it's like drug trafficking wasn't an automatic offense, and the police get in anyway, like if they're being arrested by the universities, those who use drugs will be cured by magic or imprisoned in prisons. So this is a hypocrisy, which at some point I think we should see in the face. I shall make two remarks, Mr President, in relation to the Minister for Finance's speech. The first concerns the heating allowance, which again came to be advertised and said "we increase the limit, we give 10 million more". What he said 15 days ago in the preliminary draft budget for 2020 is now coming to repeat it and present it as something new. It says, therefore, "we are implementing the New Democracy's commitment to an increased grant of heating allowance". That's great! So here I have a question, Mr President, and Minister. It says 'New Democracy' here, if I'm not mistaken. It has 12-10-2018, it has seventy-three signatures in the back. The first is yours and the second is Mr Stakoura, who said all this. And what do you say to this question you ask the then Minister Tsakaloto a year ago? "Nevertheless, at least the doubling of the heating allowance to 120 million" - does not apply - "reintroducing extended income and assets criteria for 2014" - nor did you do so - and can, of course, be granted from the state budget reserves on the grounds that this is an emergency due to external factors". How irony! Today Mr. Skokakis came to argue in favour of the need to amend the special reserve. So you do not implement your election commitment, which you have tabled the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group a year ago, just increase the heating allowance by 10 million. My last report, Mr. President. The Minister came and presented the amendments to Law 4506 for the first residence. In fact, he corrected us because we said that there had been fifty-six regulations, while he told us that the arrangements were sixty-six. This means, in practical terms, that the arrangements for applications from 0.3 million to 0.4 million were increased in a week to 0.4 million. So if we have a 0.1 - thousand increase per week, you understand how many thousand weeks we want to have effective protection in the first place. However, he said nothing about the amendment that we tabled, which concerns the reintroduction of L.3689/2010, which we have gladly seen with SYRIZA - who has abolished this law - to support it, as well as the other parties, nor the possibility for borrowers to buy their loans before being transferred to the funds, which was also heard by other wings that you support. Unfortunately, he didn't make any reference to all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u467	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u468	I shall conclude, Mr President. I see and want to dedicate it to the Minister, that today the president of companies dealing with the demands, the funds, at their conference, says that we need to deal with this issue, because the banks are specialised in financing the economy. On the contrary, he says, we have expertise, we have know-how, the tools to maximise the results while carrying European and international experience in this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u469	Close, you've become aware.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u470	You can be sure, Mr President, that our fellow citizens who are faced with the range of mass auctions are afraid of. And even now, at the very last moment, we call on the government to revise the framework, see the problem in the face. I am sure that all colleagues in this Chamber and all the wings agree that there should be protection in the first place and that borrowers should be allowed to buy their loans before they reach the funds. To make the political decision. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u471	Mr George Lambroulis, Vice-President of the Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr President. We have referred to both the draft law and the protology and the intervention of the Secretary-General and of our Parliamentary representative. Of course, we also asked the committee to withdraw the specific provision concerning the CSTD. It is understandable that the government does not withdraw it. As also, although a large number has passed - both from this step and from the committees - of Ministers, no one has taken a stand on the proposals of the Communist Party of Greece on the first residence and workers, on the basis of the 'THOMAS COOK' case and other proposals which we have tabled. As far as the amendments are concerned, Mr President. For the amendment on the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the only fundamental difference is that the initial contract with a Syriza government is now that the New Democracy Government amends it and manages it. And our vote on this amendment reflects, on the one hand, the criticism of the responsibilities of the New Democracy Government and of the previous SYRIZA Government, which, with policies in favour of pluralism, cut public health benefits, increase recompense and payments to health services, medicines and tests, thus contributing to the right of patients to necessary public health units to be presented by those who condemn the people to impoverishment. On the other hand, our criticism also focuses on the fact that, under the terms of the contract, the Foundation acquires indirectly - and we have, of course, put it when it had come and legislated with the previous government - the right to control and intervene in the areas relating to donation. As in the particular amendment to Article 3, which if it were separate, we would vote against it, because it concerns the interventions which might be made in the direction of defining and guidanceing the content of the educational process in nursing establishments. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number 84 and a special number of 15, we would agree if it were separately. We would like to vote on issues relating to special education and training. However, the amendment contains two articles, one of which is what I have just mentioned. As far as the first article is concerned, however, we have our reservations. As these are two different issues, we would like - I repeat - to vote for the second, but we have to go to the 'at present' because we do not support, we will not vote for the first article. If they were special, I think. So we are being forced to vote 'at present' in this way. We have to say this so that there are no gatherings to be made. I'm closing, Mr. President, with this. I have heard Mr Voridis, who came here to support the amendment on cooperatives. We would call on Mr Voridis, Mr President, to present to Parliament the decision of the Council of State. It's over and out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for keeping time. Mr. Vassiliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister of National Defence last brought an amendment to the import of materials from the United States by ODA, which will support it and make it internationally competitive, as he said. This morning, however, in our timely question, for our other defence industry and not just for ELVO, she said that her privatisation is being promoted. We are therefore asking ourselves whether it is going to privatise HRB as well, at a time when Greece has more than ever been in need of a defence industry of its own and for the development of its economy. I note that ELVO remains inert, while our Armed Forces have accepted a large number of free armoured M113 vehicles from the United States, unknown to us for at least efficiency and maintenance costs. It is logical, then, that these events concern us. The supply of trucks to replace the Steyr manufactured by ELVO, which is the backbone of transport, is also being considered, which we hope will be wrong. The defence industry cannot exist without support and without armaments. In addition to being able to participate in the equipment, ELVO could produce vehicles for public and urban transport. The SYRIZA government had already launched the renewal of the OSCE and OSH fleet. Now the supply of about a thousand buses is being studied. But the Minister for Transport replied to us that he cannot interfere with the rules of competition for the benefit of the local company. Unfortunately, this is how we destroy our companies. Finally, we recall that the Troika required our defence industries to close in the first few years of the memorandum, which recently supported the former IMF official and advisor to former Prime Minister Konstantinos Mitsotakis, Mrs Xafa. Therefore, we can only be vigilant about such last-minute modifications. Especially if a meeting of at least the Committee on Foreign Affairs has not taken place, which could decide and judge this particular issue better than we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u475	Thank you. Mr. Criton Arsenis has the floor from Mera25 for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u476	Thank you very much, Mr President. We will soon have another drama in terms of our democratic institutions. A tool that had been left, what had been a little abused, but at least its conditions were met. Let's go to the vote - unfortunately, the majority are given - a PPP that circumvents all the PPP requirements. We are still destroying an institutional tool of this democracy. This is not the only problematic point in the legalisation process in this country. Already in yesterday's vote Members had to choose whether to grant immunity to bankers or at the same time to increase sentences to the rapists. They had to choose what's more important. Saying no to immunity to the bankers or increasing sentences to the rapists? Because he was in the same article. In Article 2, you have the issues of the CEC in respect of which there is a homogeneous condemnation of what the Government proposes, at the same time as you have the suspension of payment of VAT for the enterprises of "THOMAS COOK". They are deeply undemocratic practices. In any case, the situation could also improve technically. Parliament must see whether there is any honesty on these issues, at least they can be voted on and voted on by roll-call votes not only in the articles but also in paragraphs, as is done in all the parliaments of the world. Merra25 won't get into this trap. We shall vote according to this article on the subject of the JRC, although we would agree with the measures on 'THOMAS COOK', although we consider them incomplete. But you won't trap us and you won't get the slightest support in what you've brought lately, with any terrain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u477	Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, we're closing with you. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u478	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are closing up over ten hours of discussion and we have followed with great interest - personally I have heard - and the Minister, Mr Kikilias and all my fellow Members of the New Democracy. Three findings in relation to the ERCF. We have heard too many New Democracy Members who have mentioned the positive impression they have from operating the CDE network in their constituencies. Even the dear Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy mentioned the corresponding function to Volos. My colleagues also felt the need to say that nothing changes, that everything will continue with the programmes and the way in which it operates. I therefore believe that the first finding is that the New Democracy Members themselves and with their own experience consider the action and operation of the CEDEFOP to date to be positive. Therefore, it was unable to prove why the government is coming and making the change. The Government itself - and there was indeed an attempt by the New Democracy MPs to support it, and that is the second finding - raised the matter, of course, very late and retrospectively, since it had created the legislative provisions in place, referring to the question of the management of resources both in the two cases mentioned by the Minister for the Diavatas case and in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State. I think, Mr President, that the debate has shown that these two arguments have been rejected, because one, as they have all confessed - and the Minister himself admitted - was an internal audit of the CSTD itself, and as far as the control of the State's General Accountancy is concerned, the report was submitted and the opposite was stated and the CST had been complied with in these recommendations. So the third finding is that there was no real reason, we are not convinced of what happened. Evidently, they are to control the administration and the president. Perhaps, at the back of the government's mind is to make room for the future and for private interests in the area of rehab. And to conclude with a final comment, Mr President. We have heard from the Minister - and some of the New Democracy colleagues have said so - that since the state grants 20 million, it is natural that he wants to have control by the state of defined administration, a form of state-runisation. Interestingly by a government with a neoliberal face! We note that for the Minutes. We hope for much more important things in the future than you have threatened as a government: from the privatisation of aspects of the National Health System to the subsidiary insurance and public functions of the Greek state. Remember the words you said today about the 20 million, because I imagine you can no longer support any such different direction in the future. So let us keep this for the future as something positive from your point of view, which we are returning to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u479	The debate on the draft law will be closed by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Kontozamanis for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u480	Thank you very much, Mr President, I will be brief. I would like to make a few points only on what Mr Xanthos, Mr Paulakis, said and a comment on the ERTH. I think we're running out of discussion. The arguments have been heard. What we want to emphasise once again is that any intervention is judged by the result, and I think that, in this intervention at the JITHA, we will be entitled to and seen in the course of the debate on the bill and the days when various things come to the surface and I think that they best deserve our choice. Let me say something about the end of your introduction, Mrs Xinogiannakopoulou, as far as public money is concerned. Yes, indeed, KETHE is funded by the Greek taxpayers' money and they need to know where the last drachma is going and we need this money to be even more beneficial to KETHEA and to have more people able to receive the services of the KETHA. I would like to stress once again that we are not tempted in any way to operate the agency. We have strengthened the powers of the general assembly, the structures remain infinite. We therefore only intervene in financial management. And because you spoke about the statement of the CEEC, let me answer that I would consider it a public sector partnership with the private sector. In what Mr Paulakis said, SYRIZA really does not stop us being surprised, and I refer to the case of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. Let me remind you a few years ago that your party had voted against the donation of the Centre for Culture and you even had some disagreements and changed the rapporteur in order to vote negatively. At least, over the years you have accepted that donations from people and institutions "who have coveted with the blood of the people" are good for the place! But even these donations could not be planned and planned properly. And I will refer to the circles that Mr Paulakis said, in fact, he told us that the agreement on the cycles was made in order to hunt a private person! Allow us to accept what was done to hunt the private man. But you know very well, Mr. Xanthi, because you were Minister, that EEAY has negotiated the price of radiopharmaceuticals and you should have had a study to see how much the cost of radiopharmaceuticals is with the installation of microcircuits in the four parts of the country. You should have known that about 3.3m euros a year EOPY wins, has a benefit from the deal with the radiopharmaceuticals and had a study of how cost the production of the radiopharmaceutical in hospitals, where the cycles are to be installed. Even more you have not regulated - and we are trying, in cooperation with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, to resolve - issues relating to the installation of circuit boards, the movement of radiopharmaceuticals and, of course, the industrial production of radiopharmaceuticals. These are things that jeopardize such an investment. As far as helicopters are concerned, the repair of helicopters was of the order of EUR 6.1 million. In consultation with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the Armed Forces and the EMCDDA, the purchase of two new helicopters was considered better. Surely the new helicopters have better possibilities than repairing some old helicopters and, of course, their operational capabilities are clearly better. As regards what Mr Paulakis said about subsidiary doctors whose contract expires on 30 month and is not made redundant - the contract ends - as subsidiary doctors from the Public Investment Programme, we have, of course, said many times that the Government, the Ministry of Health, has already launched the call for positions so that these posts held by subsidiary doctors can be re-covered with subsidiary staff in the next few days. As far as the machinery we are about to take with the Public Investment Programme is concerned, no machine is, of course, going to be endowed with any programme and the supply of these machinery will normally go ahead. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying a word about the medicine. After you learned after so many years what protocols are healing protocols, what is compensation for medicines, what is evaluation, what is negotiation, why, I remind you, you voted against them, when the New Democracy Government voted for them in the period 2012-2014 and previous governments in 2010-2012, you come and we are learning about pharmaceutical policy and you tell us that you have kept the country upright. Stand up and hold clawback and ejected it. And the health system is now being dismantled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u481	Dissolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u482	Yeah, 'cause that's the situation we've received.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u483	You've got nerve!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u484	You've got a lot of nerve.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u485	Don't interrupt, Mr. Xanthi, to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u486	Disgusted nerve. We've covered the people you've left uninsured and you're talking about clawback!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u487	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u488	Mr. Xanthi, we've been through this before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u489	You are a representative of the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u490	Don't interrupt, Mr. Xanthi!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u491	Aren't you ashamed to say these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u492	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u493	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u494	You've left two and a half million without drugs and you've got the nerve and you're talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u495	I've said it before, Mr. Xanthi...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u496	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u497	You persecuted three thousand doctors in 2014!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u498	The uninsured, New Democracy has covered them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u499	Mr. Xanthe, don't make me stir the tone!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u500	You have to make that decision, that we have covered the uninsured.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u501	Did you cover them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u502	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u503	They're laughing at lettuces too! Two hundred and fifty million was the cost of medicine!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u504	Mr. Xanthos, is that how they did when you were Minister? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u505	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u506	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u507	Take the decision. And I conclude by saying that, of course, a government's pharmaceutical policy is not exhausted in voting for a provision such as today, but then two previous provisions in the past and in subsequent moves, in which we will be making, we believe that we will have completed our institutional intervention in terms of pharmaceutical policy and will be able to offer the best medicine at the lowest possible price, at the minimum cost for the Greek citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u508	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned. (b) from 30.09.2019 B.C. ‘Incidental arrangements of competence of the Ministries of Environment and Energy, Interior, Economic and Health’ (A 145), (c) of 04.10.2019 B.N.P. 'Urgent arrangements of responsibility of the Ministry of Health' (A to 150) and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, twenty-one articles, six amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u509	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u510	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u511	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Structuring: a) of 25.09.2019 P.M. (b) from 30.09.2019 B.C. ‘Incidental arrangements of competence of the Ministries of Environment and Energy, Interior, Economic and Health’ (A 145), (c) of 04.10.2019 B.N.P. ‘Accessible regulations of the Ministry of Health’ (A' 150) and other provisions’ have been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u512	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u513	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-14-S1-commons.u514	With the agreement of the House at noon 0.07; the sitting for Friday, 15 November 2019 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate; (b) reference to the anniversary of 17 November of the Polytechnic insurrection; and (c) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: ‘Preparation of the Council of Europe Convention signed at Maglingen/Macolin on 18 September 2014 on manipulation of sports matches, urgent measures to combat violence in sport, conversion of the Greek Olympic Committee to NPD, ratification of this new statute and other provisions’.
