ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that in his letter the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House of the following: ‘We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Friday 20 December 2019 that the timely questions to be debated are as follows: That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. The European Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which is chaired by Mr George Zavvos, will be presenting an owninitiative opinion on the proposal for a Directive on the coordination of laws, regulations That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 322/12-12-2019 topical question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr. Eleftherios Economou. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. 1297/15-10-2019, 1946-14-2019 questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Geremmi Thomas. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. 324/16-12-2019, 325/16-12-2019 and 334/17-12-2019 topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for the Environment and Energy Mr Dimitrios Economou. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 335/17-12-2019 topical question will be answered by the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis. We begin with the third with number 334/17-12-2019, a top-level question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Illustration and abandonment in Mount Aegaleo". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister. The subject is well-known, an article by George of Lialios has also been published in the “Kathimerini” and the results have also been presented in a conference. This is something that we discovered through funding from your Ministry from the Green Fund, through a programme run by the municipalities, namely the Environmental Association of Municipalities of Athens and Piraeus and the businesses through the Hellenic Institute of Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Development. What did these people discover by looking for the protection of the term Aegleo, seeking to see the flora that is very important in the region? "They discovered that a second mountain of illegal landfills and bass is built in Mount Aigaleo," it is also an excerpt from Mr. Lialios's article. They found out we've got illegal ball discharge through the infinite runways. Even in the heart of the mountain, in the 1st protection zone we have deposits of these balls. They also discovered that we have a number of business activities that should have been removed for years, yet they still receive successive extensions of operation, but also push for permission to extend their activities. The question is clear. We currently have the Protection Ordinance of the Polikilos, which also defines the protection zone A and yet there are illegal activities. If you go on the side of Petroupoli you will see a very nice forest, which I have walked and visited on several occasions, which people constantly use, and yet at night you can't go because there are also a series of illegal activities, which are either the bazaars or the exchange of illegal materials, and there is a sense of risk. Bars should be placed on the forest roads once the region has been declared forest, but the declaration of this regional natural park provided for in the Regulatory Plan of Athens and Attica should also be made. In other words, we must take care to protect this area, which is also environmentally damaged, but which makes it difficult for the citizens to access it, especially at night, when an area is becoming dangerous for a citizen to be present at that time. I would like you to respond to this part of the forest roads, mainly because I know that you can answer both the part of the public order and the part of the fact that this regional park will finally be declared in accordance with the provisions of the Athens-Attica Regulatory Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. The Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, Mr. Dimitrios Economou, will answer. Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. What Mr Arsenis says is absolutely right, he is absolutely right. Indeed, with a study financed by the Green Fund from the previous government and recently presented, these findings have been made. Indeed, there are fifty two illegal landfills a mess in general. There are activities that should have been removed and have not been removed. There are authorisations, which are in transitional provisions and can be kept for ten years still industrially. There are some who are completely illegal, stockfarming. In addition to this study, we have also done an autopsy and have corresponding inputs from the Attica Region, which has also been sensitized and mobilised on the subject. So, on the substance of the question, the honourable Member is absolutely right. What can be done about this? Three things can be done. The first, to which Mr Arsenis refers again, is the provision of the Athens Regulatory Plan for the creation of a regional park in West Attica. That is why, so far, there is provision in the regulatory plan. However, this requires a serious study with details and data, which obviously do not exist in the regulatory draft. Next step is needed. In this context - I would remind you - specific environmental studies have already been commissioned in all the regions of NATURA in the country, by the previous government again. This has also been done for the Attica NATURA regions, so they also catch parts of this particular regional park. Of course, the regional park may also include areas outside NATURA, in order to create a coherent spatial unit. This study is progressing. Therefore, we will have inputs for the needs, at least, of priority habitats and other habitats within NATURA areas and protected species. There is also an earlier study, several old times, of 2004 - if I remember correctly - at the Athens Organization at the time, which was designed to create such a regional park. He didn't exactly have that name. But he had exactly that goal. She, of course, is too old. We started. We have already found resources, and there will be an update of this study. It will go hand in hand with the specific environmental study for the NATURA regions in this area which is a subset of the overall zone. The update will begin immediately. That's what I'd like to say in my prototype. In my dentistry, I shall refer to some other issues, including what Mr Arsenis said about forest roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I'm very pleased to have an agreement, Mr. Undersecretary. It is essential to recognise the current situation. For my colleagues' knowledge, I also present photos as published in the newspaper "KATHMERINI" and included in the study of the balls. They're diffuse really. It's fifty-two dumps. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A specific question is what will happen with the activities, and Mr Lialios's article mentions activities which are not only in the status of prolongation until the end of the three years, but also illegal activities without authorisation. What about them? The article often mentions activities from marble to cracks in the heart of the protection zone, but also a livestock activity. In fact, I would also like to hear your opinion on bars, because literally this illegal trade taking place at night, either to throw a ball or to exchange illegal products - which is unfortunately taking place in the region - puts citizens at risk. In other words, if a citizen happens to be present at the time, his life is at risk. It's just so simple. This is precisely because there are all these uncontrolled small roads on a forest land. The matter of forest roads, for me personally, is crucial. We have to stop access. I know that there can also be vandalism in forest infrastructures such as bars, and the element of vandalism, if it ever occurs, will mean that we need an extra metro. Let us get to the state's essentials, to safeguard this place, which is an area in which pedestrians, primarily, go to enjoy it in a very degraded area of Athens, where they need this way out. I am passing along, this is a beautiful mountain with stunning view to both the sea and to Athens, with very nice points of the forest and a very important flora. This study discovered six hundred wild species of many of them threatened and significant. Whenever we want this natural park to be given. We're not asking for a park with special care. We're not asking for a new urban park. We ask for a natural park where to safeguard its physics from ball and illegal activities. I would like to remind you that it is crucial for another reason. This is all threatened by the absurd and illegal - in my opinion - claims from the Metropolitan Lamia Temple, which claims three thousand seven hundred acres of the mountain and a total of seven and a half thousand acres. It reclaims the largest part of the city of Petropolis - I mean the residence zone - and a huge part of Peristeri. In practice, it claims all the Poikilo Mount that is outside camps. It is important to resolve this issue, because it concerns an area that accepts all the pollution carried over from the Trieste, the impact of the Gender HYST, in an area where people have been in the past and have found protection and built their homes. At the moment, the standard of living has risen. Most of these areas are very unbiased. They invite residents from other regions of Athens to go now, because quality of life has risen. But it does not stop having environmental pressures. Protection of the Polikil Mount will help us to ease many of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I also agree with what Mr Arsenis said in his denology. I'll start with the subject of court claims. It's a court case. We cannot intervene at this time as a state. But we know that. Obviously, it's a serious problem. That's what I can say right now. For the rest, I have already referred to plans under way. These designs, however, will be completed over time. The special environmental study for NATURA in this area and in the regional park also takes some time. That's not happening within a day. The question is what happens until then. We are preparing a plan for immediate actions, which will address the issue of arbitrariness on the basis of existing legislative instruments. We are already gathering evidence of what arbitraryly declared in the area and checks are being carried out for unregulated. We are collecting data on the processing activities in the region and the legal, firstly, within the meaning of the transitional provisions. We shall therefore proceed very quickly, along with the medium-term other actions and an action plan which will include immediate action on a number of issues, including forest roads and balls and arbitrary installations. Also, in order to protect forest land, there will be some immediate measures and some other measures relating to climate change. On these direct points, I would like to see cooperation, if there is interest in other parties too, having an advisory committee, say, which will monitor the whole issue, discuss it, and so it can also give greater legitimacy to an issue that you know is difficult, because there are too many pressures, it has many aspects to do with this. This will help us to have a more structured approach and a more, let us say, not party but intergroup - in any case, to the extent that this can happen - support for these initiatives. So I'm available in this direction too. To add something else, I've got a minute. In his previous questions, Mr. Arsenis, had referred to another similar issue of the protection of Hymitus, and there was an illegal church, the Prophet Elias. I do not want to go into details because it is from another point of view, but I would be happy to inform you personally. We've taken some concrete steps. I'll tell you personally what this is all about and what it is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. We will now discuss the first question with number 324/16-12-2019 on a second time question from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Symbleniou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Motions against industrial wind parks in the Cyclades". Mr. Symphony, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for several years, fifteen, twenty years since the issue of renewable energy has been in our lives, the Cyclades and the islands of our country in general have been targeted by many large companies for the installation of large industrial wind farms. There are, of course, some other small businessmen, who have also tried to install some wind turbines. I am talking specifically about wind turbines, because there are also a number of other forms of renewable energy, for which there is no particular issue. There are other issues, but they are not at the moment. Many thousands of MW have been approved by the Energy Regulatory Authority and dozens of wind park facilities including four very large, pharanonicly I would say, wind parks in Andros, Tinos, Paros and Naxos. For all this, an appeal has been made to the Council of State and the municipalities of the respective islands and from the region and with the prior administration of the regional authority and with the current administration, while, unfortunately, the environmental conditions have been approved both since December 2013 and December 2014 to move forward. All of this has been created in Cyclades, the islands, the local communities with great inconvenience and have occasionally become very large mobilizations. There are basically six issues, Mr President. The first is that permits were made without local and regional planning. The second is that the specific spatial planning for renewable energies has not yet been completed or revised. The third is that there has been no effective consultation with local communities. The fourth is that the installation of these large industrial wind farms will create irreversible alterations and catastrophes in the excellent landscape and in the natural and man-made environment. The fifth is that the world is concerned about tourist development, because these changes alter the landscape we knew, this handmade landscape of the Cyclades and, more generally, of our islands, so the tourism attracted by this landscape and by this exceptionally good natural environment will not have any incentive to go forward. And the last thing is that, if these large industrial parks go ahead, they are actually undermining the proper use of renewable energy sources, which can also be made in other forms, but also with very small facilities, which are consistent with this environment and with the capacity to carry on with these islands. So two questions and I shall end, Mr President. I took a lot of time, but maybe I'll get less in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u11	Don't worry, we don't have anything after. But you have a second one, don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u12	One is whether the government agrees with the promotion of these very large wind farms - so we - parks. The second is when the revision of the Special Spatial Plan for RES will finally be completed, and if, at the end of the day, some facilities will go ahead or investors will expect to respect the decision that will be made by this special spatial planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Dimitris Economou. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with Mr Armalene, first of all, that the wind potential of the Cyclades must be exploited in the best possible way. I would remind you that the Cyclades have a comparative advantage, in terms of wind potential and all parts of the country must contribute to the development of renewable energy sources and that this is also a prerequisite for tackling climate change, but also for meeting the country's energy needs. I would also remind you that there are other areas, such as western Macedonia, or Arcadia, which for years, with much less adverse effects than the ones with wind parks, had guaranteed the country's energy adequacy. It cannot, therefore, always be certain areas or certain specific people or groups of the population, which will suffer the consequences of the need to have energy for all of Greece. Now, renewable energies are the government's main priority. Investments are a key priority of the government - this is well known - in the direction of sustainable development. It is well known, in the sense that it is a permanent direction both of the Prime Minister and of the government as a whole. They are also a high priority. I recall the recent draft by the ESRB, the National Plan on Energy and Climate, which is in consultation, which provides that 35% of energy must come from renewable energy sources by 2030. The current target is 31%. We're raising him. Part of the whole process is defoliation. If the development of the RES does not go any further, we cannot go further with defoliation, with all the consequences that this has. I should also like to say that today the proportion of RES is 17%. We have to get to 31% in about a decade. In the RES, the winds will have a key role to play. They are not the only ones, but from a size point of view they are a key component in the development of the RES. So we have to move the winds. Now, let us move on to the specific cases of the Cyclades. There are licensed units. For some of them, there are legal proceedings. Obviously, we are not involved in legal proceedings, and according to what will result from such appeals, the administration will comply. We expect to have the results. From there, however, I would remind you that these licences already granted have been granted on the basis of the special spatial framework for the EIAs 2009, which is a national level and the regional framework for the EIAs 2003, which is still in place. It was positive for the RES. Of course, in 2003 it had no details, but it was positive. The new one hasn't come out yet. Local plans have not always been adapted to the directions of the special spatial planning, but the special spatial planning is binding on all the underlying design. The non-adaptation or lack of underlying design in relation to the RES is not a factor that makes the directions of the specific spatial framework, the national plan, that is, nor can the underlying design conflict with it. Therefore, regardless of the delays, which are obviously a negative element, on the issue of RES, the underlying design should provide for similar things with the specific spatial context. The rest in dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Mr. Symphony, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I think we have made it clear from the outset that we are in favour of using renewable energy sources and, of course, throughout the country and we do not want there to be some areas that are most burdened and much less. But here, we must put in the balance what the island country means for Greece, what the Cyclades, who have a world-wide tourism product, mean, and what it will mean if these big pharaonics are finally installed, I repeat, wind parks of fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty wind turbines on the ridges of these islands, which are today those world tourist destinations. We will have a great deal of alteration and destruction of the natural and anthropogenic environment and that is why there will ultimately be negative tourist development. That's the one. The second is that the specific landfill, which is why we want to go ahead and complete, must be a framework in which they will be put - we say, depending on the capacity of each region - where and how these facilities will be installed to make use of renewable energy sources. But I would like to say that these four special large industrial parks, which I told you from the outset, which have been made an appeal to the Council of State for Andros, Tinos, Paros and Naxos, were selected and licensed before 2009, as far as I remember, because then I was on the Prefecture Council of Cyclades and there was an appeal to the Council of State. Therefore, these four large parks were not licensed on the basis of both the spatial framework and the oldest specific landfill for the RES and, of course, there was nothing new then. The main thing is that, after all, if there is no consultation with the local communities, you will not be able to proceed with any project. It is no coincidence that both municipal authorities and regional authorities independently of political direction and positioning are all at the moment opposed to installing this size of wind parks. Therefore, I think that the Ministry should aim at a holistic development option in other forms, including small wind facilities, but also in other forms. I would say to see - of course, it is not matters that are easily dealt with - except for solar energy, wave energy, geothermality and a series of other forms of renewable energy that can actually offer and contribute to the country's target within the European Union by 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin at the last point in Mr. Armaleniu's speech. Indeed, planning for the RES, and the older one for the ESRB, provides for a contribution of all possible forms and those that appear most recently, such as wave, and others, such as the geothermality or biomass that exist from the old, but have not been sufficiently exploited. So, in some way, as far as the form itself is concerned, they are a priority. From there on, however, on the basis of existing resources and investment opportunities, wind power will certainly, like many other countries in Europe and the world, have a great burden on total electricity production. We cannot avoid that. Let's go a little bit to the 2009 S.H.I.E.S. Special Spatial Planet. For what you say some plants have been licensed before 2009, I do not have such information. I have the information that environmental licensing is later. I might be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u19	From RAE.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u20	From RAE? Okay, from there on, though, environmental licensing is later on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u21	In 2013-2014 they got.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u22	That's what I'm saying. Environmental licensing, which applied the special spatial planning of the RES in 2009, is then later, so they have also passed through the procedures provided for by this specific spatial planning, i.e. distances from areas of interest, exclusion areas, specific landscape study, carrying capacity. I would remind you that for the Aegean islands the capacity to carry is less than the allowed, maximum capacity of the installed RES in areas of mainland space. So all this has happened. There has also been consultation in the context of environmental licensing. So there are legal procedures through which these investments are progressing. These cannot be circumvented, and we cannot suddenly, which has been legally licensed, stop it. I do not, however, want to override the issue of the specific spatial planning of the RES and the sensitivity of the Cyclades. Indeed, the landscape is peculiar, it cannot be dealt with with with the same criteria as other regions. Yes, but everyone has to contribute in their own way. What I wanted to say is this: The Special Spatial Plan for RES is in the process of revision. The process had begun since the previous government in 2018, of course, so it obviously did not have any radical contradictions with the present and current EIA spatial planning, otherwise this process would have started earlier. In any case, however, this review process began. The choice of contractors has been delayed - the competitive process has started - for reasons that we should not ask them now. None of us are to blame. I don't mean it's a political party. These were side effects of the overall system of public procurement and public procurement. In any case, this procedure has been undone. It will be very soon to launch the special landfill for the RES, i.e. I count in January. I think it'll take about two years if we run too fast. We're trying to reduce this time, but it can't be much reduced. In practical terms, if it's not two years, it'll be twenty months, something like that. Until then, what we are thinking is by legislative arrangements to deal with some urgent problems, which cannot wait for the two or more years, which may be necessary. One of these is: The special landfill of the RES 2009 was based on wind technology at the time. According to that technology, the biggest wind, the turbines, reached eighty-five meters. In this case, then, the landscape designs and distances, etc. have also been made. Today the respective wind turbines, i.e. the state of the art, are about seventy meters and they change time by year. So, objectively, this special building block 2009 is outdated. He hadn't predicted such possibilities. On the basis of this spatial planning one can indeed go to Serifos and legally, with all procedures to install a turtle or more than seventy meters. That would obviously be disastrous, no doubt. We therefore want to bring together, along with the promotion of the specific spatial framework, an immediate legislative intervention that will face some such urgent problems, particularly posed by the new technologies, which have completely changed the data on which the 2009 spatial planning was based. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. We move to the third with number 325/16-12-2019 a top-cycle question from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Annulment of the settlement limits of Pelion". Mr. Meikopoulou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the decision of the Council of State 1268/2019 annulls as inappropriate and unconstitutional limits and limits of settlements, which have been made for decades by means of administrative acts and puts urban services before increased responsibilities for issuing building permits in these areas. This decision affects eighty settlements of Magnesia, including all traditional settlements of Pelion. The cancellation of the boundaries of the settlements has led to the inhabitants and professionals of these regions economic and investment paralysis and their housing development has been suspended. To become a little more specific: a brake has been placed on the sales, but also on what you are still doing, it does not know whether the building site that is allegedly being built will actually be a building permit, since the project concerned is being transferred to the permit time and refuses to place it in a preventive position before the sale. The control of whether the plot is located within or outside the settlements is shifted to the private engineers, who in most cases improvise, as it is not specified by the Ministry or the town which maps must be taken into account for the determination of building capacity. Already small activity has ceased completely. The property of the citizens who have acquired their plots legally and in good faith by investing whole life, for over three decades no one has questioned the correctness of delimiting the settlements. Other limits consider settlements as the boundaries of the settlements, town planning and others, since according to the town planning the boundaries of the settlements are invalid, but the DU continues to tax them normally during the transfer. Of course it becomes problematic to complete the forest maps, as the boundaries of the settlements do not match the boundaries of the settlements according to the new data. Many land buyers, who have not been able to rebuild them, move for cancellation of sales and return of the price without the sellers having real responsibility and more generally prevent the production capacity of the settlements of Pelion, since the limits of the settlements are not allowed to be installed and to expand small industries and crafts related to the primary production of the area and are engaged in the processing and processing of local and traditional products and are threatened with the recovery of investors from subsidies. So, Minister, some questions arise: The first question is this: we want you to tell us how you intend to intervene to speed up the procedures for the adoption of a Presidential Decree necessary to demarcate and extend Pelion's settlements. The second question - which is quite reasonable - is precisely because it is timely to adopt a President-in-Office's decree, which initiatives you intend to take for a transitional period and for the immediate removal of the issue, but also to deal with the daily problems that have arisen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. And this question will be answered by the State Secretary for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a correction to what you said. The brake has not been put on by the Council of State. The Council of State over the years has implemented the laws adopted by the House in its case-law. The brake basically entered with the illegal extensions of the previously occurring settlements. It's just, if we didn't like this, we should have changed the legislation. The Council of State is obliged to implement the existing legislation. Of course, I am not evading, I just mean that the problem has a great deal of time. Obviously, the problems that have been created are huge. Evidently many citizens who have done sales or investment projects have suddenly been found in the air. This is real and we all agree, and so something needs to be done. What can be done now? We didn't find out about the problem right now. The problem has been learnt since at least 2017. I would remind you that the settlement limits in the region of Rethymno have been cancelled accordingly, so it is well known. A number of procedures have been initiated for this area. Two settlements have been reconstituted, one has been approved and one is under approval, in the Council of State by a presidential decree. But it was known that, based on this case-law for any other region of the country, there are similar appeals to those of Rethymnon, the limits would fall there, in all these areas. So we should have reacted overall before, since we know the problem. Pelion raised the problem now, but as I said it was well known on the substance beforehand. In any case, what do we do now to deal with the problems? The normal way of dealing with the problems - and when I say normal, I mean the one provided for by the legislation - is to redefinition the settlements. There are specific requirements for this procedure. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to prepare the relevant studies which are then promoted by a process and at the end of the day the Presidential Decree comes out. It's the responsibility of the municipalities. The municipalities have so far not reacted sufficiently. Two meetings with representatives of the municipalities and the Technical Chamber of the region have recently taken place at the Ministry of the Environment. We've been asked a few questions, mostly the Volos DOM. We have answered them and said: the Ministry has found resources to fund these studies that the municipalities need to carry out. These resources are already available and we have secured them, but the municipalities should also be in the case of Pelion when we say the municipalities are the Municipality of Volos - because the rest of the municipalities are not technically competent, so Volos is covering all of them, and he must start this process - he agreed at the last meeting we held about twenty days ago in the Ministry to proceed with this process. We have been asked to send us a list of all the settlements in various regimes, others are traditional, others are stationary and for each settlement there may be a different time for demarcation - they have not yet sent it to us, I suppose they will send it to us before holidays, we are in contact - and on this list we will agree on a programme to be financed by the Ministry and it will be called by the Municipality of Volos. That's what I have to say in my prototype and because I don't have any more time, I'm going to add some other elements to my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u28	Thank you again, Mr President. Minister, I have not called into question the correctness of the decision of the Council of State, and I have not said that it is problematic or in the wrong direction. Apparently, he's applying the law. I described the consequences of such a decision because, obviously, these consequences do not only mirror citizens' responsibilities, but also mirror management's time-consuming responsibilities. That's what I suggested. Also, Minister, since September 2019 - I have been talking about town planning - has stopped issuing permits on plots falling within the boundaries of the settlements and with the exception of it only the cohesive core of the boundaries before 1923, but it is extremely difficult to see, since in many settlements there are no maps of the old settlements. Moreover, the cohesive cores of the old settlements are densely populated so that the building activity is virtually zero. At the same time - and I am talking about town planning - it has addressed to the central offices of the Ministry a number of written and oral questions, due to the fact that it is at very high pressure and before increased responsibilities, but still according to the information I have not received any specific answers. Indeed, the two conferences held in Larissa and Athens with the Ministry's political and service actors, representatives of the building and scientific institutions of the Magnesia engineers were probably fruitless, since the specific answers and instructions have still not been given, but only a vague assurance to resolve the issue. On October 14, 2019 - I'm talking again about the Volos Building Agency - the Municipality of Volos Building Service sent you an extremely urgent document asking the Ministry for permits and analyzing the aspects of the problem. However, I do not know if you have actually answered. They claim that you have not even answered and even in the meetings that I have before. In fact, it has been known that during the Athens meeting when the officials of the Ministry were asked about the course of this urgent document, which had all the detailed questions, the officials of the Ministry were looking for it at that time. Minister, given that the issue of a presidential decree can last from two to five years, as you have rightly said, there must be a provision for direct initiatives on transitional periods. The Ministry should, in fact, ensure funding for the preparation of studies to redefinite the limits of the traditional settlements of Pelion. The proclamation and award of these studies are necessary and will, of course, allow the adoption of a Presidential Decree as soon as possible. Now at this point, Mr Secretary, I would like, if I may, because you are also a scientific knowledgeer of the subject, to convey to you a proposal after discussions I had with topographer engineers in my area. Perhaps - I now say one possibility - that it was a regulation for the areas that were recently adopted a general planning study of the CFP in order to get the settlement limit as set out in the specific studies. This could also be extended to settlements in which a CSF or SPD study has been carried out or the limits and restrictions on building in settlements below two thousand inhabitants have not been validated but the studies have been received by the Ministry. This is a proposal with content to examine it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. The State Secretary, Mr. Economou, has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have referred to the decisions of the Council of State and their legitimacy, to remind you that whatever we do today must be legal again. If we move on to illegal action, we and the citizens will see the same problem ahead of us. What is legal, therefore, is specific and sets specific limits within which we can move. Now, for the meetings that have taken place with the local players, they have not been fruitless. On the other hand, as I said, the questions of the Volos Ministry were answered at the last meeting. Responded by the services. When you say they were looking at that moment, they were looking for why they didn't have it on the table. They went down and took it. They did not look for it in the sense that they had no idea about the document, on the contrary. So these have been answered and it has been agreed, I repeat, that the Municipality of Volos will undertake to cover all these areas. That was not a given, it came from the last meeting, the Municipality of Volos agreed. We told them that we would finance them, just the Municipality of Volos must be the accelerant for this process, and I expect, as I said, to send us the list of settlements, to see just how many resources are needed and how they will be shared in individual studies. So it's not fruitless, it's in a process. The ball right now is in the Municipality of Volos. Obviously these procedures are time-consuming. It is not a long time ago to demarcate settlements, it is a long time ago. In my opinion these procedures should have been taken care for a long time ago by all the previous governments. All of them! I would remind you that in recent years too many parties have passed through the government and no one has tackled this problem. What do we do? The new studies to be commissioned by the municipalities will be carried out with specifications which will be shorter. In other words, we are preparing a reduction in standards and procedures so that these studies can be completed sooner. This is a commitment and we already have it processed. The second point you raised, if I remember correctly, in the protology, is what will happen until then, because even if the time is shortened, it will still not be the day after tomorrow, let us say, at best, in a year. We are considering transitional measures in all possible ways and the suggestions of engineers who have one logic. They're not that simple, but they have a reasonable basis. So we're looking at them, too. In the draft law to be brought by the Ministry of the Environment at the beginning of January, some transitional arrangements will be provided for, but in the context of legality. In other words, the constitutional limits which require us to move within a specific context cannot be exceeded. There will be some interim arrangements, but I cannot tell you what they will be at the moment, because we are still looking at them at a legal level. As far as possible, however, immediate action will be taken to address to some extent the existing problem among the people who are not to blame at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. The fourth under number 336/17-12-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Don't worry and questions about the course of the construction of the new judiciary in Heraklion", will not be discussed with the Minister and MP. The second question, with number 335/17-12-2019, will be discussed now by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Illegal recording and storage of the camera material of the metro stations". Mr. Arsenis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is a huge issue, as we are talking about the illegal registration of data by subway security cameras, not only of workers, but also of all passengers, as well as all persons with special status in Greece, whether this may be judicial, military or anything else you might imagine. In view of the fact that we know that this material was recorded by the metro cameras illegally by an unauthorised worker, the security officer, who has not been authorised by the independent authority and used by the sectoral authority in specific cases that have come to light and there was the finding of blackmailing workers for threats - that is what the trade unionists are saying - it is shocking that a person is gaining access to such delicate personal data. They are abused and in the same procedure they can enter and any citizen has used the metro, regardless of location. You can understand that this is a huge issue and has political implications. I would really like you to tell me what has happened with this material. Six months this man was illegally recorded. What happened to that stuff? Has it been used, has it leaked anywhere else? Has he been traced? Do we know where he is? It was about civilians. Do we have any issues of extortion to the citizens - subway passengers? Are there any security issues concerning extortion of possible judicial or other bodies? They are crucial questions, as well as the question of what you will do so that this huge issue for our society is not repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, it is indeed an important incident, which we cannot say can overcome. I can tell you, however, that the Ministry has immediately acted in the direction of giving instructions, of course, to the administration of the SAC, which is responsible for this case, as regards the resolution of the incident, to take all the necessary steps and, of course, to restore the problem and assign any responsibility to the responsible. Indeed, I would like to inform you that the disciplinary board was made very quickly and indeed the maximum penalty provided for, in accordance with disciplinary law, was imposed on that worker. In particular, as far as the systems are concerned - there has been a whole talk of video surveillance at the metro facilities, I would like to inform you that these are intended exclusively for the safety of the passengers, the facilities and of course the employees of the company. And these systems, for you to know, have been installed and run by the construction of the Athens subway project, while the operation of the closed camera circuit is functioning legally and has been notified to the Personal Character Data Protection Authority, as was, of course, foreseen by the prefect n.2472/1997, which was referring to the protection of the individual against the processing of personal data. As I said before, as a controller for the processing of personal data, SSH has already taken technical and organisational measures for the management of video surveillance systems, of course by ensuring safe access by authorised personnel, with responsibilities and specific tasks, which I should like to inform you, Mr President, that they have been described in the outline of their work and that a strict management procedure is in place. In fact, before the application of Regulation No 679/2016, in compliance with the Directive and the previous law, on the protection of personal data, as well as with the instructions of the Personal Character Protection Authority, the administration of SASY was ensuring compliance with a very specific procedure for the recovery, storage and transmission of the material, while, of course, very specific persons had been authorised to do so, so that they could have access, if you like, and in particular to ensure the integrity, confidentiality and availability of the regulations. I should like to inform you, of course, that, since the implementation of Regulation 679/2016 and in the context of its compliance with it, the administration of the SAC has also taken a number of other steps towards compliance and requirements. Indeed, the project to provide services, compliance with the Regulation, as well as the recording and implementation of all the necessary actions had been entrusted to a contractor in 2018. With a second contract, 2019 also entrusted the work of providing services of a Personal Data Protection Officer, precisely to ensure compliance with what the Privacy Authority has said. In conclusion, Mr President, I will tell you that the SAC is generally aimed at complying with Community legislation and, if you wish, the aim is precisely to ensure the protection of the rights and freedoms of all the subjects. In cooperation with the data protection officer, it has always proceeded with a number of compliance actions. Of course, these also have the approval, as I said before, of the Personal Data Protection Authority. An update on the existing procedures and in this respect the management process of the material concerned and the video recording system shall also be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-seven students and students and three trainers from the Eleftheropolis Kavalas High School (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. We wish you many years, good year, good holidays to both you and your families. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to welcome the kids, too. Mr. Secretary, complaints are too heavy, at least as far as the workers are concerned. This has leaked into the press. We don't know what's happened to the people who used the subway. The material was used for extortion, threats, and even subjugation of employees from positions held. And the maximum penalty provided for by the law is three months. This man has received a three-month sentence for this crime. But the decisions to give him all the material that allowed him to register and extortion, etc., were signed by the Director-General, the CEO and the Deputy Director-General. This is a political issue, because it also concerns people appointed by SYRIZA, but also people who are currently in a political office, seconded to a Member of the New Democracy. I do not want to name the Member, but you will know him. Whenever I really want to see the matter carefully. Are there political implications and the main question is what happened with this material, which the individual had at his disposal? What about the recordings and citizens? What about the records of other people who have a sensitive role in our society? Were there any corresponding blackmails and where did they lead? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u38	Mr Colleague, I will repeat what I said in my prototype. The maximum penalty, according to disciplinary law, was actually imposed on the worker concerned. Whether she's young or old, that's another conversation I think. In any case, there was a three-month cessation of work, because this is provided for under existing legislation and disciplinary law. I repeat, this is a very serious incident. No one has underestimated it. I think the reflexes shown by the administration were immediate. I would remind you that STASY is a supervised body, in that the Ministry of Transport does not really have the power to intervene. He's obviously giving some directions. When we realised the seriousness of the incident, the directive was to do legal and do so directly and to observe the law and disciplinary law. As I said to you, Mr Colleague, the obligations in question fall within the exclusive responsibility of the company. Nevertheless, in the context of its competences and in the light of the more effective application of the provisions of the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, the Ministry of Justice and the Protection of Personal Data, the Data Protection Officers, the DPOs, and in greater cooperation between the Ministry and the Institutions and with the Privacy Authority. In fact, I wanted to inform you that, before the General Data Protection Regulation was put into effect and without this being required by the relevant institutional framework, the Ministry was in a letter of 2018 - it was from the previous government, but of course it was in the right direction and I would like to say it publicly - which the Secretary-General of the Ministry had sent to all the supervised bodies at the time - and I will also present it in the Minutes - including the STASY, who are responsible for data protection, the DPOs. He also pointed out to them that an integrated system for the protection and management of this data, of personal and of course that is being processed mainly by the transport operators, as controllers, should be set up. I think, as I said before, that tangible proof of how decisive the reaction was and from the Ministry's point of view of the recent incident was that immediately - it has just come to our knowledge and without any time-lag - I think any illegal treatment has been interrupted, of course, access to this individual has been banned. I told you that this sentence was imposed and, as I said before, the issue was referred to the SAC disciplinary board, so that this sentence could be brought to bear. Also, I would like to point out that the administration of SAS has strengthened its organisational and technical protection. Apart from the application of new technologies to prevent such phenomena, it will take other steps, as I have been informed, precisely so that we can prevent such incidents in the future. To conclude, I would like to say that this incident is an isolated event, which in no way can undermine the overall effort, which is the security and protection of personal data, at least as it is implemented by the transport service providers. And it should not raise any further concern for the passenger public, at least in terms of public transport service. I'm making a public appeal. Indeed, we must condemn the incident, but we must not give such an extent as to create a concern for the public that there is a 'big brother' who monitors everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u39	What about the material?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u40	I told you that the administration took all the measures, precisely to protect all those who might have been involved in the incident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much for the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Ioannis Kefaloniannis. We're moving on to the next question. Now the tons are coming up, we're going to wake up with Mr. Femello. Next is the first question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Strengthening the establishment and operation of energy communities”. Mr. Famelle, you have two minutes at your disposal for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to start with an issue outside the text of the question. This question was put by 50 Members on 15 October, but it was not answered in writing, as none of the questions we have asked - at least nine - within the time allowed for replying were answered. I would therefore like to begin, Mr President, by putting an issue on parliamentary control. I cannot understand why the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, such an important Ministry, does not fulfil its obligations vis-à-vis the Greek Parliament. And remove from Members the opportunity to be informed in writing of all your initiatives. This is also depreciating Parliament, but also the process of democracy, which we have guaranteed. The Greek state has a key element in parliamentary control. Minister, I cannot understand why this question and the next question, tabled by fifty-one Members on 15 October, has not yet been answered in writing, that is to say, you have not given us any written evidence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] But let me get to the bottom of the question. The process of energy transition you understand is perhaps the most crucial element, along with the social function of our country for many years and of Europe. In this process of transition, the issue of renewable energy producers, as well as the consumption and placement of energy production, is very crucial. The government of SYRIZA proceeded with a very large institutional section with Law 4513, an institutional section, which was recognised at European level, on its pioneering and creation of energy communities, an ambitious tool that enables self-government, local producers, local producers, local businesses, to actively engage in the production and management of energy sources, energy structures and units. It is a tool that combats energy poverty, helps decentralise energy production, gives local jobs and solves many problems of social cohesion and acceptance, perhaps, regarding the location of these units. In practice, Minister, creates a new player in the energy market, a new subject. It enables us to have a new entrepreneurship, many more producers, so much more to care and be both producers and consumers. And so society is also participating in development, it multiplys and supports renewable energy sources, it is not just an observer of the economic operation of a few, and we also have an energy transition much faster, because we have much more active citizens and entrepreneurs in the process. It is exactly the opposite of what you are doing in the process of energy transition you choose, for example, to give the whole gas network to a private person. It is an alternative, economic and social, but at the same time also an energy process. In fact, I must tell you that he is in complete agreement with the Paris Agreement. It contrasts with the centralised planning of energy production and - if you like - it also gives us a element of democracy that helps us very much in the villages, because it triggers many co-operatives in a locality and enables our society to resurrect, both from bankruptcy and from the major social problems, which created the memorandum and bankruptcy of the previous governments. It is a social and solidarity economy, it is a new economic production and it solves problems, such as, for example, the energy autonomous islands. For this reason, therefore, the law, the particular, our own, Law 4513, also gives incentives, in particular, tax incentives, licenses. But the question we have put to the question, and I would like you to answer that is as follows: there has already been a pre-publishment of a specific financial instrument from the 5-7-2019 in the ESDP, in the 'PAENEC' programme which enabled - if I am not mistaken - EUR 25 000 000 to start financing the energy communities. So it was controlled by the institutions, by the agencies, it was ready. So, since July, we have had EUR 25 million to create new energy producers. So the question is: When will you publish the invitation, Mr Minister, and why has not yet been published? Let's start with this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Before giving the floor to the Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, as they participated in the educational programme of the "World Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and students and two fellow teachers from the private primary school of Manda - Papadatos. The House welcomes you and wishes you many years. Happy holidays to both you and your families. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Famele, you will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Gerasimos Thomas. Mr Thomas, good morning, and you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I would really like to thank Mr Famelos for having tabled this timely question. It gives me the opportunity to address a matter of great importance to the development and progress of local societies, to promote the circular economy and to develop awareness of local populations, through the involvement in the production of green energy and the development of environmentally beneficial actions. Unfortunately, however, the legislative framework, which the previous government has done, was not mature, creating a framework where there are sticks, unclear and uncertain difficulties in the implementation of the planned projects. The worst is that it has created hopes in a part of the local population for almost free implementation of profitable projects, while, with the carelessness of creating a structured legal framework, it has created injustices, inequalities and major distortions, in the RES market, distortions that we now have to regulate in such a way that we return to normality. The fact is that there is a great deal of acceptance of the institution of energy communities in Europe, there is twenty-year experience in this, but the way that has been done in Greece is not exactly mature, because it has created a priority - due to the lack of legislation - to the creation of energy communities that mainly provide for the distribution of profits, rather than the promotion of the social and solidarity economy, as would be the right thing to do. The fact is that SYRIZA had predicted a funding of EUR 25,000 000 to strengthen the establishment and operation of energy communities, but as it was set up, it could not function because it is against European legislation. The notice, which took place on 5-7-2019, i.e. a few days, two days before the elections, created great expectations. However, it cannot be implemented because, two days later, it was assessed by the Special Office for State Aid, which says that the obligation arising from the law on energy communities, which requires them to have their seat in the region where they are active, is contrary to the rules on State aid, as laid down in the General Exemptive Regulation and the social framework for granting State aid. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] We are positive about the programme, if it promotes communities, which do not primarily provide for the distribution of dividends to private shareholders, but mainly exploit resources for public purposes. So it's hard, as impossible, to find funding. But, as we all understand, we will proceed with an institutionalisation which is compatible with the European Regulatory Framework. Law 4513/2018 of the energy communities was formed on the basis of a draft EIA Directive. On the basis of the draft directives, the law was right. However, on the basis of the directive which has finally been formulated and adopted, there are significant differences, which we now have to regulate. In order to make the framework legal and operational, there must therefore be changes. It is therefore appropriate, in a first phase, to amend the Act of Energy Communities in order to be compatible with both the RES Directive and Directive 94/04/2019 concerning the rules on ‘the internal market in electricity’, amending Directive 2012/27, Article 16, ‘civil energy communities’ and Directive 2018/2001 on ‘promoting the use of energy from renewable sources’. This amendment is necessary to enable the Energy Community Programme to function, for which you are asking. So you realise that the points that need to be changed have been identified. And within the next two months we will proceed to the necessary legislative amendments, on our own initiative. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Subsequently, the call will be published for inclusion in the programme by finalising the conditions for participation. In any case, there will be sufficient time, both for issuing the required permits and for the timely completion and repayment of the projects, within the current programming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Femmelle, you have typically three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u46	Yes, thank you, Mr President, I think they will.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u47	I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u48	Mr Secretary, I think it is revealing, through your reply, why you have not answered in writing. Because I think it would be very important for the whole of the country's energy and environmental community to know that the new leadership of the Ministry of the Environment is judged by the law on energy communities when all of Europe follows these steps. And you know that when the law had been published, the Directorate-General had evaluated this law and had not evaluated it as inapplicable. But for one reason you have not answered them in writing, Minister, but you have to solve them now. We therefore want the aid management document that says that this law is not compatible with European legislation. You must present him to the House today. That is why parliamentary control has to be clear. You will also have to table the objections that it has with the European directive. But let me tell you what unscrupulous difficulties the New Democracy Government is making in the energy communities. And I think you should admit that too. Mr President, in Law 4643, in the recent PPC law, the Government voted - and it has chosen - that the energy communities should not be given priority in producing renewable energy. So you see, who creates unsurpassed difficulties? While there was a priority by law that energy communities, i.e. this collective energy production in the region by self-government, businesses and citizens will be prioritised, the government is now coming by law and says: "Priority is being abolished", i.e. the advantage that the energy communities "and will be decided by the Minister" by a ministerial decision according to their will, with criteria that no one knows who has a priority. Mr Minister, if you say that there is a question of Community aid, I am entitled to say in this Chamber that the Government chooses that the energy communities should not be given priority because they were prioritised and removed. So you have to answer us why you have removed the priority. I'm also going to tell you some other revealing things. The government cannot go out today and tell us that energy communities cannot be implemented when, Mr President, the 2019 WWF Environment Report - I hope you do not question it too - says that energy communities are undoubtedly a positive development for the further penetration of renewable energy sources. The most important element of the law is virtual netting, it is the priority in licensing procedures, it is the exemption from the right-management fee. It says that more than seventy forms of energy communities have been set up so far, so you come to disprove the WWF report by saying it has unsurpassed difficulties. If you want to disprove the WWF report, would you like to disprove the comments that Green Peace and WWF have submitted to energy planning, which said: 'Promoting energy communities through their funding'? Why, Minister, does not anyone speak of unsurpassed difficulties in energy communities, but do you create unsurpassed difficulties by putting them back on their priority for licensing connections and other incentives? Mr President, Minister, I think it is clear why the government did not respond because it wants to create barriers to the institution of energy communities. I would therefore like the documents which we have requested to be submitted. That is why parliamentary scrutiny is being carried out. You have a duty to testify. You also put forward and now say the timetable and commit, say about the points that are in conflict with a European Union directive, the law on energy communities and also tell us why you have taken the energy communities out of priority, why you have taken priority from the energy communities. Who exactly are you supporting? I want you to tell us, because if you are supporting the privatisation and management of renewable energy sources, it is not that you will only do harm to the economic productive system, but you will cancel the country's transition to climate neutrality, as you do almost all the measures so far. Take out the lignite, put the gas "from the back door". If you're going to take care of some of New Democracy's best friends again, tell us here today to know. As for the energy communities, you said you do not want to promote them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u50	Mr Colleague, you're paraphrasing what I said. I said that we support the energy communities, but as you have prepared them, you have done hand-in-hand with the law and wrangling with the programme of their creation. Two days after 5 July, on which your notice was lodged, the Special Office for State Aid was found to be incompatible with the State aid rules. We will therefore proceed in the right way to strengthen energy communities. It took us some time to understand how many gaps you had left in the previous legislation and certainly no preparation had taken place except to get the notice two months before the elections, which was withdrawn as a result of the non-approval of the EEAS.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u51	Will you testify?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u52	We'll clarify all this, put it in order in the next few months. With a ministerial decision, as foreseen by the PPC law that came out, the issues of the priorities for the provision of connecting RES stations to the network will be regulated, but also all outstanding issues relating to the compliance of our national legal framework with the mandatory European regulations, which create significant distortions in the smooth functioning of the RES market. So wait two months and you will have a new legislative proposal to correct the wrong texts. In this context, the priority of energy communities will be streamlined. It won't be abolished. It will be streamlined in the provision of connection offers and at the same time other net metering projects, biogas projects, which use livestock waste, as you yourself asked the House when the law was passed. Biogas projects using livestock waste were your request during the debate in the House last month. We will actively and effectively promote the circular economy and resource management, as well as other categories of special projects. Our aim is for there to be a better and fairer distribution of electrical space between the works of all categories, since in recent months the TEDO has been forced to examine almost exclusively requests from energy communities that have been set up on a sound basis. We have reached the point of a craftsman who wants to make a self-production photovoltaic waiting for more than eight months for her request to be examined by the TEN and to think about making an energy community bass and seeing a white day. An obstacle to the rational distribution of electrical space is also the fact that the DEDDIE has not made progress in recent years, under the administrations of the previous government, in network upgrading projects. This is why with PPC's new business plan and the new possibilities offered to the TEN to renew both its administration and its investment programmes, we will be able to move forward. Energy communities are a very important institution, which the government intends to ensure and further promote, but not on a poor basis, but on a sound basis. The energy savings, the fight against energy poverty, the awareness of local populations on environmental issues through active participation in social cooperative schemes are the objectives of our Ministry. Energy communities are a unique tool in this direction, which we will set up on a sound basis and the financial programmes will be strengthened as soon as they are effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Do you have anything to testify to in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u54	Will you submit the document, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u55	I'll testify. We'll send it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I object. Parliamentary control is very important. He's obligated to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u57	He said he'd testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, you know very well that the role of parliamentary control is to inform Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u59	You'll tell them right away, Mr. Famele, since the next question is yours. The second question will be debated now under number 1946-14-11-2019 by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Energy upgrading of public sector buildings". Mr. Famelle, you have the floor for two minutes, so you can answer for what you wanted before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I call it institutional. We need the documents on parliamentary control. The Minister cannot come and express a view, especially for public services, if there is no document, because this is the property of all Greeks. It's not just about your office. I have also heard nothing about the parliamentary control procedure. I told you that this question was two months old and signed by 50 Members. Why wasn't he answering? You didn't answer that. I now come to the next question. It's the same thing. Forty-eight Members have been asking since 14 November, once again has the time required for the Ministry to answer and you come here to answer orally. Parliamentary control is something very serious. Unless we manage to serve Parliament and the process of democracy, it makes no sense to discuss the rest. We claim the right of Members to participate in a dialogue with you. I do not understand, however, what the consent is. Today, what do we agree on? Do we agree that we shall respect the rules of parliamentary scrutiny? Good. Let's start this and go to the next one. Apart from renewable energy sources and energy communities, the second major issue on which the country will be judged is energy savings. If I am not mistaken, in the national energy and climate plan you have chosen to put even more increased targets. We'll see the final you'll publish, but at least that's what came out of the consultation. If I'm not mistaken, it's up to 38%. So how to save energy in buildings is very important, Mr President. A large sector in order to save energy in buildings is the public sector, which is also a strong, difficult and problematic sector, possibly with bureaucracy, with many old shells, with too many buildings, with great energy loss throughout Greece. So since the energy transition to this will be judged, the question raised by our question is: How will we address the issue of energy savings in the public building stock, which is in many respects old and energy-intensive? The aim, therefore, of the national energy and climate plan should be to tell us what the mandatory target per year of renovation based on the overall area will be. I would like, then, Minister, to know whether you will have a target for the overall area of public buildings that will enter energy upgrading projects because, if I am not mistaken, from the national plan and 2015 even Directive 2012/27, the target was 3%. I want you to put yourself in this first, to know what we're talking about. The second is the investment required each year. In fact, I want you to tell us what the 2020 budget includes for energy savings in public buildings. Because we can't wait to do this in 2030, as you understand. We have to start now. Yesterday we had to start. You must tell us that you will manage the "ELECTRA" programme prepared by SYRIZA. We already had EUR 500 million for the National Investment Bank, Mr President, to go to twelve pilot projects all over Greece. For the first time, he financed and the studies mature to have both energy savings, upgrading of buildings, ramps for SMEs, digital networks. To get the whole building into a process of upgrading and thus have a new way to be more effective for the state. We would in fact rely on the European Investment Bank. Approved programme of 500 million. In fact, the list of these works had already been drawn up. The question is, then, what is your planning for the immediate start of the "ELEKTRA" programme? We say this because, from what we heard in the committee we did last Friday, if I am not mistaken, you are questioning the ELECTRA programme. And it is questioned as follows. You say you will not proceed with the "ELEKTRA" programme, but you will put it into a more general financial instrument in which you want to put in and privately. Mr President, if I have understood correctly, the government wants the 500 million ready for public bodies to go to buildings, schools, hospitals, swimming pools, as well as to church buildings. I think there was something like that. We'll read them later. It comes and says "no, I will give it to individuals to do these projects and are paid by users", so by the general public. And there comes the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, which is obviously not of SYRIZA, and says there is fear of this programme because it will become the Greek citizen - the user of the school, the hospital to pay for the energy upgrade of this while the government of SYRIZA had ensured the resources that it would not need to do so. As far as you can tell, that's never happened. Because it will be too long. And introduce Article 28 of Law 4643, in order to say it simply, the institution of the energy services companies, which is clearly useful, to replace the "ELECTRA" programme. You enter it in order not to use the funds of the European Investment Bank. We ask ourselves: Do general government bodies in new borrowings, at new costs for users? How will public services then work? I would like to close with the original question. Once you take the state out of operation of the programme, you do not link it to the general upgrading of the buildings, no structure is monitored, that is, you will leave it on the market - as you have told us in the Committee on Production and Trade - then you are driving energy savings in the buildings into an incomplete programme. In a program that will not be scheduled. The question is, will you be responsible for the fact that we will not get energy savings targets beyond the cost you're carrying to society? Because that's what you do with your design. You carry costs to society and you do not achieve the goals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ENIZELOS" Hall for forty students and students and two teachers from the Eleftheroupoli Kavalas High School (second section). The House welcomes you. Happy holidays to you and your families. Good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Is that someone from Kavala Beekeeping? From the court? Nobody. So big villages. Mr. Famele, Mr. Undersecretary for Environment and Energy, Mr. Gerasimos Thomas. You have the floor for three minutes, Mr Thomas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u62	Thank you. The energy upgrade of buildings and the overall improvement of energy efficiency are one of the key pillars of our national energy policy as it has become known to the EPTEC, which has come to public consultation and which will be confirmed, as it passed by the Economic Council yesterday, we have set a high, but effective, objective of improving energy efficiency by 38%, which is more ambitious than that of the previous government and the central European objective, as established by the previous European Commission. For example, on the basis of our plans and the way in which energy upgrading projects are financed, we are aiming at an annual renovation rate of sixty thousand dwellings, that is, a third more than the number of dwellings to be upgraded provided by the ESRB on SYRIZA, which was forty thousand. The building sector is clear that it will make a great contribution to improving energy efficiency, as has been promoted by the European Commission in the context of the Green Deal presentation to which it speaks about the renewal wave in private and public buildings. But let me come to the specific issue of ELECTRA, to which you refer, Mr Famele. We received an institutional framework for energy renovation based on the exclusive financial instrument of the subsidy. It was clear that with State budget subsidies it was not possible to catch the energy efficiency renovations that we need. We cannot renovate public buildings or the private buildings we have. The ministerial decision, which you refer to in your question, is an administrative gap which did not have any technical preparation for the drafting and formulation of the notice and did not have a rapid and flexible management scheme. There was nothing behind this joint ministerial decision you left us. The tables with the proposed projects to which you referred have no institutional basis. They became opaque and even saw the light of publicity for a while, cultivating unjustified and unfounded expectations. We don't know which criteria happened and something else behind this list. In the face of this manoeuvre and lack of infrastructure, after we have consumed resources and time to see this dimension which I have described, we are moving on with steady steps and substance. We designed and changed the logic of the project by voting for PPC's law, providing for the financing of the interventions not only by public, but also by private entities, as well as by energy services companies. They're complementary. They do not replace the tool with which you were able to make public projects. They also work in complementarity and enable companies in energy services to do work. In this way, we are also seeking to mobilise private resources, alongside public funds, in a sector with rich potential. Thus, all available sources of funding will contribute to this national effort. In order to facilitate the participation of NSRF in the financing of investments, we provide for the public guarantee of the Deposit and Loan Fund. Note that ELECTRA will use and continue to use the European Investment Bank's financial instruments for the implementation of projects, while also using other available tools for maturing. With regard to the projects selected, this will happen in a transparent and objective manner, such as maturity and energy efficiency. The drivers are given the necessary training. We are not going to follow opaque practices and rough methods. As a result of the changes and our initiatives, the number of projects expected to be implemented with this programme will more than double the five hundred or fifty projects calculated with the SYRIZA planning. We are therefore completing this process of redesigning the programme and the notice has set out that it should take place in April 2020. In conclusion, the requirement of a certain energy responsible for the completion of a project, as foreseen, will be applied to all financial programmes during the new period. As far as the electronic platform is concerned, your inertia for almost two years has led to the platform becoming incomplete and incomplete. The technical problems of the contractor will be solved soon. This will also help to ensure transparency in the selection of projects and in the monitoring of projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. Mr. Femmelle, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, before I begin my second language, I should like to say this. Mr Thomas, I do not want to judge you, nor to judge you negatively. But you didn't refer to what I asked you to do. I asked you what the amount provided for in the 2020 budget for the energy upgrade of public buildings is. You have something to tell me before I move on to my dentistry. Because I asked, and I can't continue in second place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u65	The amounts in the budget for energy upgrading are also provided for at the Ministry level and at the level of regional programmes respectively by the regional and municipal authorities. There is nothing different from what is in the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u66	Here you go, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u67	I want to clarify some things, because I won't talk again. Mr Thomas, both on the issues of energy communities and on the issues of "ELEKTRA", you should be a little more read when you come to the House, and that is why you should choose the written way in which you reply. Why am I saying this, Mr President? The New Democracy, if I'm not mistaken, has passed the law on energy communities. I'll look for the minutes to see who said he was rough and inappropriate. I think no one. But he cannot come after the Minister of the New Democracy and say this to the Greek Parliament. Also, if I'm not mistaken, there's a centre of liberal studies that took out the law on energy communities better law of 2018. Mr. Thomas also disproves that. Apart from WWF and Greenpeace if I'm not mistaken, there was a positive evaluation of the law by Ristory's chief in the European Union. All of these, then, come and disprove them. Take note now, with regard to the second part of the question on ELECTRA, what exactly do we have today? We had a debate on the 2020 budget and it was voted the other day. I made a position on this subject, Mr Thomas. You are not following the parliamentary debate either. Let me tell you, therefore, that the 2020 budget does not provide for a single euro for energy savings in buildings where, in fact, the Ministry of Finance says that it will reduce energy consumption by 5% - you did not tell us how much of the building area you will go to energy upgrade planning, as you do not know that either, to show how good energy planning you are doing - and it says that this 5% will be generated without costs from a programme that the Ministry of Finance will do with the other ministries. So tell us what this program is? You didn't know if he had a code in the budget. So I say to you that it has a 5% reduction, because we read the budget before we vote. So tell me, what's the program of the Ministry of Finance? Submit it to the Minutes, because the Ministry of the Environment and Energy cannot know the budget code and not know what saving programme Mr Stagioras and Mr Zavvos will implement, which, if I am not mistaken, is here in your own buildings. You tell us. You're the competent department. You deposit a resilient energy design with 38% energy reduction, which is important for the country and necessary, but you are not enough to implement it. All you are sufficient to do is get the money from the European Investment Bank, give it to private individuals to do business and put the municipalities, hospitals, pay for the energy upgrade. That's what's critical. Because it will not be possible for the municipalities to grow, so logically it comes after the Central Association of Municipalities and says that 'the balance of our participation in the future will be unbearable for the institutions'. Even the Central Association of Municipalities, which is not SYRIZA, knows that what you're going to do will be unbearable for operators. How will energy savings be made for something that is unbearable for operators and citizens - I say - then? There is one question: what are we going to say to pilot institutions now? In other words, there was a programme, with an open notice involving the municipalities that have approved projects. I will give you an example. I should therefore like to go to the municipality of Lagada, whose mayor is not SYRIZA, to tell him that the EPA, the IEK and the EPA Lagada with a budget of 1.670 will not enter energy savings project. Let's go to the Municipality of Oraiokastro, which is not SYRIZA, tell him that the swimming pool and the town hall won't go into energy savings. Shall we go to the Poseidonian Swimmings of Thessaloniki? Should we go to the City of Thermaikos, which has the 1st High School of New Machinery, the Young Passengers High School and the Reunion PAAL, tell them they won't get in? Should we go to the Municipality of Halkidonas, which has the General Lyceum of St.Athanasios Andros and the 10th PAAL of Koufalion? Or do you want to go to the sacred Common Evangelism of Theotokos in Ormulia Halkidiki? Or in the social welfare centre in Evia and Phthiotida, can we tell them that they will not go into energy-saving projects, while they already had secure resources from the European Investment Bank? Will those who are involved in the operation of these centres be paid for through energy services? Is that exactly what you're choosing? And you're telling us that no public works can be done with state funding? Will you abolish everything we know in Greece? Public works, Mr Thomas, are done through state funding and we are all engaged taxly in the operation of a state that upgrades the whole environment for all of us. And it supports the energy transition. Are you telling us, in practice, that in the national climate energy plan, all the costs of the 44 billion transition will be paid for by all consumers? Will it not result from public funding expenditure? Aren't there international financial instruments? Will you also abolish the operation of the European Investment Bank? Why then is the European Investment Bank? To finance only individuals, do jobs and possibly monopolies, without competition and with closed contracts, so that only them can be paid and not citizens enjoy the benefits of growth? This is the energy transition and the crucial element. If it is socially fair to be effective, otherwise we will not succeed. And I want to tell you this: Good, you do not expect all this. From which budget will the energy savings costs be covered in buildings? Which budget will the operators cover the costs? From new fees to the public? From a new service cost? Is that why the hospitals announced in the budget were privatized? Is that why you're putting private means to operate magnetic tomographs and other control laboratories? To pay for the services in the public health of our country? Tell me at least about energy savings. And I want you to tell us what the target for 2020 is in a renovation area in public buildings in Greece. That is where the ESRB is judged, Mr Thomas. It is not judged in the big words you say just for impression. As for impressions was defoliation. He's judged in deeds. You have money in the Ministry of the Environment. Why don't you give it to western Macedonia and Megalopolis? They sit at 30 million, and the end of the year will be 60. People are concerned because you want the units to be closed, because we have to go to another energy management. I would ask you to give these answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much. A little comment, Mr. Undersecretary: Let me tell you, because I'm from the First Thessaloniki that he's absolutely right. The swimming pools mentioned by Mr. Famelos are all Thessaloniki and must enter. They serve a lot of people. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I think there is a misunderstanding of what we are saying, because I have not said at all that public works will not be done. I said that not all projects can be done at public expense, and there is no reason for all building upgrading projects to be done at public expense. There's no reason. Energy saving is fair to the citizen and to the consumer. Energy savings are made so that the consumer, the private, the state for the energy he needs is paid less. It must not be financed by the taxpayer. It is financed by the reduction of the account that either the public building or the public body or the private person. Therefore, doing a few work for free and leaving the whole world without any help in saving energy is unfair. We set up the program in such a way that we more than double the buildings that will benefit from the Electra building. And not only will we leave the European Investment Bank. I told you that it would be the European Investment Bank that would help more the ELECTRA programme, the new one, as we do so that more buildings could be made in a transparent and objective manner and with an emphasis on the type of energy efficiency, which would be achieved on criteria. Not giving money without knowing exactly what will happen to these investments. You also referred to knowing what other money there would be. EUR 1.2 billion has been earmarked for energy savings in the NSRF. In addition to the ELECTRA programme, there are calls for 360m euros for energy upgrading of buildings in regional programmes. Therefore, there are energy saving notices for both industry and small and medium-sized enterprises. We have therefore anticipated a series and continue to build tools, which have been made by the previous government, we are improving them and of course we are perfecting them. The "ELEKTRA" programme had a DAC that was licensed, did not have drivers that we are trying to do, and as I promised by April, we will have proceeded with the implementation and publication of the ELECTRA programme in a way that can work. Some of the projects on energy upgraded buildings around the world, throughout Europe - it is exactly what the European Commission's Green Deal says - must be done with private and borrowing participation, as all the projects announced by the European Commission have been, the 100 billion announced by the European Commission to improve energy efficiency as the core of Green Deal are also by lending. We need to have an optimal, where appropriate, use of the state's resources, together with lending from investment banks and wherever possible and where it makes sense by private banks, to have co-financing private resources so that we can catch up to the energy upgrade rates we need. And the consumer must not pay for it. It is the consumer who wins. It is the consumer who will see that the account of gas or electricity will be reduced. From the energy cost reduction, energy efficiency projects are financed, and this is how we will go so that we can enable all businesses, all public buildings and all Greek citizens to make energy upgrades. At this point I would like to give you the documents referred to in the previous question. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Gerasimis Thomas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u70	And we thank the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Geremim Thomas. We continue with our second question under No 322/12-12-2019 of the First Cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Nikolaos Papanastasis, on the subject: "The Convention of the Greek State with the "FRAPORT - Greece's Regional Airports S.A.". To deposit the contract documents - working conditions of officials Santorini airport fire service." Mr. Papastasis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since the first day of operation of the Fire Service at Santorini airport, the Communist Party is investigating and highlighting the unacceptable living conditions of personnel serving in this area, but also of existing operational infrastructures there. On the occasion of this fact he insisted on taking note of the contract signed by the company "FRAPORT" with the Fire Corps and the Greek Police, considering that there is a lot to hide or omit. SYRIZA's government provokedly indifferently to the former demands of the Communist Party for the award of this contract. We returned with the same request to the Government of New Democracy. The response received by the Communist Party was that the government is unable to provide the requested contract bound by a commitment of confidentiality. We also consider this answer to be just as challenging as the denial of provocativeness, effectively destroying the proclamations of the governments of the New Democracy and of the SYRIZA on transparency. No duty of confidentiality shall waive the people's right to full knowledge of the agreements signed by the governments concerned. These demands of the Communist Party are directly linked to the lenient and dangerous working and living conditions of the fireworks at the Santorini airport, the tolerance to the "FRAPORT" for life, health and the effectiveness of the firefighters' work. It is indicative that the Syros Health Inspection Department in repetitive inspections in recent years has never found anything measurable in relation to the facilities of the Santorini Fire Service. Only after a question from the JRC on 19 November the above mentioned agency found infringements of the safety and health standards of premises and moved the facilities to another area of the airport without, however, restoring to the tolerable level living and working conditions. Housing continues in a container with what this implies with fire extinguishers putting a deep hand in the pocket from the little money they get to equip yet the basic needs of these containers. And all this, Minister, occurs at an airport where today from early 2019 until 31 November, some two million two hundred and sixty-eight passengers were moved. All of this shows that both the health and safety of fire extinguishers are sacrificed for the profitability of business interests. We ask, Mr Minister: First, when will the government submit the documents of the Greek Government's contract with the "FRAPORT - Greece's Regional Airports S.A."? Secondly, is it in the government's intention to take immediate steps to effectively resolve the serious problems faced by firefighters of the Santorini Fire Service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer you. Mr. Economou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to, Mr. MEP, the first part of your question, as you already know, the documents of the contract signed between the Greek State and the company "FRAPORT - Greece S.A." are subject to a duty of confidentiality and therefore cannot be disclosed and granted. That service contract was signed on 20 February 2017 and we have an obligation to comply with the obligations agreed with it without being considered to be an abstention or a denial on our part. You can, however, if you wish to visit the Ministry and get a knowledge of the contract with a duty of confidentiality. The concession contract for the upgrading, maintenance, management and operation of the regional airports of Crete, mainland Greece and the Aegean was ratified, as known by Law.4389/2016 and in accordance with those provisions and for the smooth operation of the regional airports, the concessionaire, in this case the company ‘FRAPORT’, is obliged to ensure and maintain at its own expense the appropriate equipment and facilities for the rescue and fire-fighting services, as well as the buildings, systems and facilities of those airports, the movable assets and any part of those which may suffer damage within specific time limits. Regarding the Santorini airport, the Fire Force Headquarters has taken the following actions so far. In a document dated 15-5-2017, the company ‘FRAPORT’ requested control of the buildings of the Santorini Santorini City Authority. in order to assess their current situation. It also asked for all necessary measures to be taken to secure accommodation for the service if required. In response to 23-5-2017, the company ‘FRAPORT’ informed that the plan for upgrading the infrastructure of Santorini airport envisaged the demolition of the existing building in November 2017, as well as the replacement of it with a modern fire station in 2018. For the transitional phase until the building of the new building, temporary housing houses of the service were installed by the company ‘FRAPORT’. However, until now the existing building has not been demolished and the building of a new building has not been completed. On 18-11-2019 the company "FRAPORT" informed that the housing houses of the service would be transferred immediately to another location. Subsequently, the Firehouse Headquarters with a new document on 25-10-2019 asked the company "FRAPORT" to grant additional houses due to a lack of space, as well as to carry out repair and maintenance work of houses where required. Responding to the demands of the Firehouse Headquarters, the company "FRAPORT" completes the relocation of the houses in a new position and moves to the disposal of an additional house in order not to use the old building. At the same time, the building of a new fire station is taking place in the old position. In addition, the Headquarters of the Fire Corps addressed in a document in April 2017 to the Property Management Directorate of the Public Property Company and its corresponding documents in April and September 2019 to the Air Force General Staff on the resolution of the problems of accommodation of the Santorini airport fire workers. The Civil Aviation General has expressed a positive attitude to temporary concession within the airport of Santorini and is pending its final reply in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too. Mr. Papastasis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, everything you say is known from the documents that are published for the decisions and checks of the Fire Service headquarters. We are concerned, however, that the contracts signed by the Greek State with private companies, which regulate not only the life, health and safety of the employees of the Fire Service, but also have an impact on the operational performance. And as a former senior officer of the Greek Police, you know very well what this means to the Fire Service, these contracted contracts constitute a brake, apparently, in the performance of its service. Apart from that, with regard to the facilitation, the Communist Party will be aware of the 'FRAPORT' Convention - public, but by keeping the confidentiality you have committed, it goes without saying that the Communist Party by the workers does not keep secret documents. Furthermore, we will highlight another aspect relating to the level of safety and safety of fire-extinguishers, which is the important state sub-financing. Our concern is further intensified, knowing the potential consequences of all this, even to a possible weakening of the effectiveness of the work of fire workers. We all know - and we deplore it - that this may have a disastrous impact on society as a whole, on the local and on the general side. Unfortunately, this climate also exists today at the other regional airports in the country with a corresponding impact. The Communist Party of Greece has repeatedly opposed the privatisation of airports, stressing that this is against the interests of the Greek people and workers in them. Also, in time, he noted the problems arising from the implementation of the contract, a partnership of the Greek State with the company "FRAPORT", on the construction of fire-fighting services of the regional airports by the Fire Corps. These concerns are confirmed every day. And this confirmation comes from the firefighters themselves through the associations that represent them. The Communist Party, noting the bad situation and the impasse in which the personnel of the Fire Corps are located, requires immediate steps to resolve the dating problems that affect the effectiveness of the firefighters' work. I shall close, Mr President, by stressing the need for the remuneration of firemen, at least, at the level of the police officers. Not that they're better, but at least they're not at the inhuman levels where the fire extinguishers' pay is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to assure you that secret documents in the contract do not exist. And the invitation to come is open and the contract is at your disposal. But you realise that, within a contract, which contains commercial terms, there are elements covered by the terms of confidentiality. It is not a question of keeping anything hidden from the workers or somewhere else. It goes without saying, however, that there are conditions of confidentiality in a contract which also has commercial characteristics. You can come see the contract at any time and not let various shadows hang. As far as the issue concerning the personnel of the Fire Service is concerned, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Civil Protection, recognizing the important work done by the Fire Service in order to offer it to society, is on the basis of ensuring the highest possible level of performance and efficiency of fire services, the protection of personnel, and the service and resolution of any difficulties and problems arise. Identify us, at least, that we are interested in and fond of the Fire Corps and the firefighters, at least to the same degree as you. We are watching very carefully and we are detecting any problems that occur, malfunctions, and even failures, if you want. As I mentioned, in the light of the public interest, on the one hand, of ensuring the best conditions for personnel working at airports and, in particular, for the officials of the Firehouse, a framework of negotiations and consultations with the concessionaire has been developed in view of the signing of the new contract with the Fire Corps, as the existing three-year contract expires shortly, on 20 February 2020. We are trying to improve what has arisen and to provide, as far as possible, for them to be mentioned in the conclusion of the new convention to be signed. I have to say that the assistance of yours and the rest of Parliament's parties through your remarks is considered useful. Any well-meaning criticism and control, be sure to take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u78	And we thank the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. We are now moving on to the last timely question for today. This is the first question under number 323/16-12-2019 of the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Friend loans as natural persons and loans with the guarantee of the Greek State". Mr. Red, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Agricultural Bank of Greece, as you well know, does not exist from 2012 onwards. In the transfer of the Agricultural Bank of Greece to Piraeus Bank, the Agricultural Bank’s portfolio, which included the so-called ‘red loans’, as mentioned in banking terminology, was transferred, not to the buyer but to the bad part of the Agricultural Bank and was wound up in 2012. This concerns thousands of natural persons from farmers. The problem that has arisen is the weakness, first of all, of the farmers' debtors' communication with the lender, with the clearer to settle agricultural debts. In 2018, there was the first serious attempt to settle these loans and they were announced by the company, which was liquidating arrangements which were, indeed, favourable. I would like to mention this in the topical and urgent debate. I am referring to the deletion of all interest and also part of the capital. These arrangements were approved by the relevant Committee on Insurance and Credit Risks on 3 February 2018. However, these arrangements had not been entered into the electronic platform of the extrajudicial compromise. You ask yourself, Mr Minister, are these regulations possible? If they don't, is there another plan to settle agricultural debts in your plans? Will they be placed on the online platform? How will the farmer have communication - debtor? Thirdly, we would like you to tell us whether these loans - and indeed, the loans guaranteed by the Greek State - were included in the HERAKLIS project, which was voted on last week by Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition "Volumes of the Greeks, the one-way stations of nearly two hundred years" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two fellow teachers from the American College of Greece. The House welcomes you. Happy holidays to you and your families! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kokalis' question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance by Mr. George Zavvos. Mr. Zabwe, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. The honourable Member has analysed the context very well. He knows that especially - I think - because he was also responsible for the State Secretary at the time. Indeed, it is a single specific clearing framework that has been in force since 2016. It provides for arrangements for borrowers over a period of time which sometimes extends to ten years for business loans for consumers and up to twenty years, if necessary, housing. It is a framework that provides a flexibility to resolve sustainable arrangements and, of course, allows for an individual assessment of each debtor based on the category of debt. Regarding the questions raised by the honourable Member, who was then Secretary of State for Rural Development, you were involved in the planning of this programme, which we think is going in the right direction, this programme specifically concerns farmers and, Mr President, it concerns twenty-five thousand farmers and includes a series of actions by the special clearer, who is under the supervision of the Bank of Greece and, as we have said, provides for specific and favourable arrangements, such as cancellation of interest on late payments, deletion of interest on loans, deletion of accounting balances, hundreds of twenty instalments, etc. We must bear in mind the following: the accounting balance of the farmers' loans at EUR 407,000,000 at the start of the programme, while the total debt, which was increased by interest on late payments - unaccounted for - amounted to EUR 1,255,000,000, with an initial period of eight months. It expired on 28-2-2019 and has since been renewed. Now, this date, because this is your question, the expiry date 31-12-2019 is expected to be renewed, because it is part of the operational plan of the special clearer for 2020, as the Bank of Greece assures, of course. But I would like to see the effectiveness of the programme here, if it really touched on to those to whom it is addressed, namely our farmers. Because here we see that effectiveness was very low. In fifty-four weeks of operation we had only twenty-eight applications and only one approval. That means something went wrong. In other words, we believe that the political communication you used at the time was not sufficient. That is why, Mr President, the government today intends, at the same time, to reform the programme with two main priorities, on the one hand, and, on the other, to ensure that the farmer is able to understand the programme which concerns him, and on the other hand, to participate. We will do this with a special campaign aimed at our farmers. The second is that these arrangements will now try to have more solutions, more favourable regulations for farmers. Of course, I am always talking about natural farmers, who - and we stress it - should have established economic weakness. So, Mr President, we are taking all these issues into account, taking into account the malfunctioning of communication and, of course, the government will see to it that everything is necessary, that is, what has unfortunately not been done with communication from the previous government. With regard to the second question of the honourable Member, if the relative liquidation between the Greek State and the former ATE has been made, and if the farmer knows who the loan is, and whether they will be included in the public guarantee platform and loans, yes, all loans which have received the guarantee of the Greek State, without any exception, have the possibility to be settled on the basis of the current framework. That's the assurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Red, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u83	Minister, I am truly pleased that you find the arrangements agreed positive - and they are positive - but they were not known in the rural world. And they were not known because they were not included on the online platform, first. Secondly, the company being liquidated is based only in Athens and there is a failure to communicate all farmers throughout the country with a particular office. That is why a campaign is needed to make these arrangements known, which provide for a deletion - and you have been informed - of the capital, except for the deletion of all interest. I am also pleased that loans with the guarantee of the Greek State will be able to be included. But I give it to you as advice, because I know this: there has not yet been a liquidation between the Agricultural Bank and the Greek government, the responsible Directorate for Financial Policy. And this is a paradox: the debtor has two lenders at the same time. On the one hand, the former agricultural bank should be asked to pay him for a loan for which the public and, at the same time, the public were guaranteed to claim the same amount. There is a need to synchronise the services in cooperation with the clearer in order to settle these debts, which, incidentally, relate to cooperatives. Loans guaranteed by the Greek State are a very important issue. In conclusion, I wish we had even more favourable arrangements, always in the context of the arrangements agreed in 2018, and we need to run this programme as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, because, as I have said before, this communication weakness of the programme, which might have been a little better, has been identified, and it has in some way been left to accountants, the current government will do its utmost to inform the people concerned, who are our farmers, so that they can be directly involved, because it is a programme which obviously favours them considerably. At the same time, Mr President, I would just like to make a clarification. Yes, although all the loans that have received the Greek State's guarantee have no exception, they have the possibility of adjusting in accordance with the current framework. Here, of course, we have loans for either systemic banks or cooperatives, as you have said, but I want to make a clarification. The loans guaranteed by the Greek State will not enter the ‘HRAKLE’. You remember that from last week, it's cleared. They will enter this platform, which will obviously have the arrangements it needs and the various solutions under the current clearing arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. George Zavvos. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept this point to resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-20-S1-commons.u87	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 12.17 p.m. I wish good holidays and what you wish to see in the world that we see, our partners, the officials of Parliament, the government, the opposition. Be well, strong, strong. Holy Mary with you!
