ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 25-01-2019 delegation, the Minutes of the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Friday 25 January 2019 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau of the Council of Ministers, on Friday, 25 January 2019, with regard to the resolution to the entire draft law: ‘Definition of the Final Agreement on Dispute Resolutions described in United Nations Security Council Resolutions 817 (1993) and 845 (1993), the End of the 1995 Interim Agreement and the establishment of a Strategic Partnership between the Parties’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, only one question will be discussed. There are also two colleagues here who have asked for the floor for questions which will not be discussed. Before I give them the floor, I will read the questions which will not be discussed. Then we shall proceed to the process of discussing the question which will be answered by the Minister of National Defence, Evangelos Apostolakis. The second question under number 283/21-1-2019 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the Last Chamber, as demanded by the lenders of 50 of the public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The first question with number 2932/31-10-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Association Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Democracy of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School of Athens", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The third, with No. 292-22-1-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the "impact on the functioning of services and working conditions on services of Venizelos Hospital from the fire in the former buildings of the University of Crete on 23-9", will not be discussed due to a government mission outside Athens by Paul Polakis. The first, with number 288/21-1-2019, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘People and institutions are substituting the State's role in strengthening the EKAB’, will not be discussed due to a government mission outside Athens by Mr. Paul Polakis. The fourth under number 271/14-1-2019 topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister for Health, with regard to the medicine, will not be discussed due to a government mission outside Athens, Mr. Paul Polakis. The fifth, under No. 273/15-1-2019, topical question by MP Laconia of Democratic Integration Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the crossing of patients from the EKA in Intensive Treatment Units due to a lack of medical staff", will not be discussed due to a government mission outside Athens by Mr. Paul Pavakis. The sixth under No. 276/15-1-2019 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Very serious problems in the General Hospital of Samos", will not be discussed due to a government mission outside Athens by Mr. Paul Polakis. The eighth under number 272/14-1-2019 topical question by the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Creation of a Bran Branch of Hospital/Oncological Clinical at the General Hospital of Drama”, will not be discussed due to a government mission outside Athens by Mr. Pavlos Polakis. The ninth, with number 277/15-1-2019, is a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Problems in the operation of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Amphichia", will not be discussed due to a government mission outside Athens by Mr. Paul Polakis. The tenth under number 254/7-1-2019 topical question by MP Kilkis, New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Complaint against the Governor of the Kilkis Hospital for the rape of workers”, will not be discussed due to a government mission outside Athens, Mr. Paul Polakis. The second question with number 3876/29-11-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the "return of funds retained in connection with the availability of ninety-seven hospital workers in Thessaloniki", will not be discussed due to a government mission outside Athens by Mr. Pavlos Polakis. The third question under number 3143/281/7-11-2018 question and application for the submission of documents of the petitions and questions of the MP Dramas of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, concerning "the operation of the Ophthalmological Clinical Clinic of the General Hospital of Drama", will not be discussed due to a government mission outside Athens by Mr. Paul Polakis. The third under number 281/21-1-2019 topical question by Independent MEP II, Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of "ENPHIA of Building Cooperatives", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. The second, with number 289/22-1-2019, is a topical question for the Attica Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject of "State of authoritarianism and repression. When will the catapult end?' will not be debated because of an impediment from the Minister for Civil Protection Mr. Olga Gerovas because he represents the Government at an event of the Fire Corps, in the presence of the President of the Republic, for the award of volunteer firemen in Attica. And finally, the seventh under number 262/9-1-2019 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject of “Emergent need to increase military service”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. For all this, there is also a letter from the Secretariat of the Government and Mr Kaidazis. Mr Kyriazidis, I will give you the floor, even though I remember that I was the one who presided over last week and for exactly the same reason you asked to put you on the same questions. Please confine yourself to one minute and I would not like you to put me in a difficult position - as I did last time - to interrupt you because you started to raise the question of the substance of the matter. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u3	But, Mr President, I will put you in a difficult position because the Rules of Procedure impose this procedure when the Minister responsible for answer does not come. That is why this process is repeated. I say this, Mr President: as many times as the Deputy Minister for Health does not come in, this will be repeated, unless there is awareness from the Ministry of Health and, in any case, dealing with this huge issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u4	That's acceptable, Mr. Cryazides. I do not want you to go through the process of developing this issue because this is a matter of discussion with the relevant Minister when he is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u5	I am not going to, Mr President. I'd just like to point out...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u6	We want your objection. Respectable, to record your objection to the Minutes, and that is why I am giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, as the situation is unfortunately difficult, I have just received a reply from the Medical Association yesterday. Four and a half thousand of my compatriots were forced last year to go to the "God" to be treated and another seven hundred to the General Hospital of Alexandroupolis for the same reason. That's the hard reality. And, of course, the doctors in the hospital, as I said next time - and I will tell you - are raising their hands, because they can no longer - and they confess to it - guarantee the health of my compatriots. They can't do any different. You also need to take measures to either come to answer or give a solution. There's nothing else to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Lady, it's understandable. It's just...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u9	And I would like to thank you for your speech, as I have learned, so that the Deputy Minister can finally come, because since the sixteen topical questions, the ten, of course, which have been submitted by other Members, concern him. I would therefore ask you, and I appeal to you at last at least to sensitive issues of this kind, which have to do with the lives of our fellow peoples, otherwise I cannot give an answer, and obviously you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Cryazides, it's understood. Thank you for not developing this issue, but you understand that we, as a Bureau, cannot force any Minister to come. It is a matter for the Ministry and the Ministers themselves to come and answer. Mr Papapas, I shall say the same to you, not to go ahead with the development of the subject and to confine yourself to the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, don't put any more time on it. It's a point of order. It's about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u12	Don't worry. There's tolerance. I won't cut you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u13	I am concerned, because you are a member of the Conference of Presidents and we have mentioned that on many occasions. This is the case: we have a question that has been dragged for six months by the former Minister of National Defence. We are talking about increasing Turkish aggression in Cyprus, the Aegean. For the time economy, I will not be talking about. The whole world knows all this. The entire Greek people. We ask two key questions to the Minister: Firstly, if it intends to make the immediate increase in the duration of the military service, at least in eighteen months, in order to solve the problems of subsistence and reduced manoeuvre - do not strictly put the 'hurgling' in the Armed Forces also serve men and women - faced by the Greek Armed Forces? Secondly, is it going to consider the possibility of applying as soon as possible the consistent proposal of the Golden Dawn on compulsory recruitment of men and women at the age of eighteen, so that both the Greek society and the Greek Armed Forces are able to cope with every risk arising for our national security?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Pappa, do...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, don't interrupt me. You said the questions which are not answered, Mr President, by the Minister who, for the first time, has to answer under parliamentary scrutiny. But you did not tell us why the Minister is not answering. Mr President, the Minister has today made a serious blow against Parliament. And because it is also against us, the Golden Dawn, I would say: You are not bored, you are a new minister. That's it. We know life and state...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Pappa, if you'd like to proceed with the completion...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u17	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u18	Why are you interrupting me, Mr. Cryazides?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Cryazides, please let me preside over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u20	The heavy blow of the Minister, who is present and refuses to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u21	The Minister will take the floor to explain whether or not he will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u22	The strong force of the Minister is not that he is not answering the question, but that he has put his signature on the oppressive, treacherous Prespecies Agreement and not only that, but he has already applauded it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Pappa, this is a completely different matter. I would be very grateful if we could stick to the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u24	This is a reproach for the Armed Forces...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u25	Mr Pappa, this is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u26	The Armed Forces, in active and retired, are boiling with this attitude of the Minister. And I want to say to the Minister who came here and portrays us as the beam that here is neither buds nor the American Embassy nor the shipowners' offices.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Pappa, don't make me call you in class.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u28	Shame on you and all your shame!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Pappa, please. This is not a matter of substance. Stay...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u30	It's a matter of substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Poppa, you don't have the floor. Please don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u32	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Poppa, you don't have the floor. You don't sound. Minister, if you please, you can answer. Otherwise we continue with the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I will not stop at the personal challenges. I don't think that makes any sense. But I would like to answer that the military issues are Mr Ioannides's issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u35	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Pappa, please. I would ask that nothing should be recorded in the Minutes from what has been said outside of the microphone. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, none of the points mentioned by Mr Pappas is my responsibility in principle. We are not here to discuss the Embassy Agreement. I answer all the questions that will be asked to me or which have been made to me and which are my responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the debate on the first under number 287/21-1-2019 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Stamatis, to the Minister of National Defence, on 'Flying war aircraft'. The Minister of National Defence Mr Evangelos Apostolakis will answer. Mr Stamatis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u39	Minister, on the day that the surrender and receipt of the Ministry of National Defence took place, war aircraft "Miraz" took place over the Pentagon area. According to the announcement of your own Press Office, this overriding exercise took place during the delivery ceremony - the receipt of duty: "The Fighting Aircraft Couple will fly above the Papagou Camp". I do not want to comment on the second communication on the second day, because this insults our intelligence. After the reactions caused by this provocative action, the press office took back your communication, which told us that it was in the context of training flights. I do not even comment on this communication and you should not comment on it either. It is well known, Minister, that you have very close relations with the former Minister, Mr Kammenos, personal relations which do not concern us and which do not concern us, only when they are involved in the performance of duties or when military regulations are violated. I remember some time ago that Mr. Kammenos went up and became a co-pilot helicopter. You were here. This is extremely dangerous and, of course, offends the Armed Forces and the rule of discipline that should be followed. When the Chief of the Armed Forces monitors such a violation of a regulation, what strength will he then impose upon his own lower and lower ones? In addition, however, on the same day, Mr. Kammenos flew with a helicopter in Imia. You need to answer and explain to us who gave this order, who gave the orders of excesses, who gave permission to fly with a helicopter in Mr. Kammens's Imia when he was not Minister. These actions have created a problem for the Armed Forces, while they should be in a constant state of alarm. The fact that Mr Kammens has approached an area characterised by heat has been made in consultation and information with the competent military authorities? Eventually these excesses cost the Greek people how much they cost, as we spend an extremely difficult period of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Stamatis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank you for submitting the timely question and to say that I am very moved, since her answer is my first speech in parliamentary control as Minister of National Defence in the Greek Parliament. The price is great and the responsibility is even greater. I will not go far on this, as the answers to your questions are brief and clear. First of all, I would like to say that at the ceremony held in the Armed Forces, both faces are always honored over time, namely both the handwriting and the receiver, whether they are military or political. In your question you say that the instantaneous passage of aircraft over the Papagos Camp during the delivery-receipt ceremony at the Ministry of National Defence, set these aircraft out of operational readiness. This is not accurate, however, because the flights of the Mirage 2005 fighter aircraft lasted for a minimum period beyond the ceremony, and in any case the entire flight was in the context of a planned training activity. In particular, the Air Force General Staff announced on 16 January 2019 that such transit was included as an individual object on a scheduled aircraft training mission and in the framework of the 331 Moura's daily training programme. I am presenting to the minutes the relevant communication from the Press Division of the Air Force General. [[At this point, the Minister, Evangelos Apostolakis, presents for the minutes the above communication, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would further point out that no institutional text of the Air Force at all prohibits such aircraft flights. There is therefore no coma. Apart from this, I would like to remind you that in the parade of national anniversities, in the oaths of the Icar School, but also in other ceremonies, war aircraft and other flying instruments of the Armed Forces will continue to pass, and how much more so when it comes to a delivery ceremony - the reception of a ministry. You are therefore aware that there is no issue of loopholes in operational readiness. As far as the cost of this flight is concerned, I understand your sensitivity - in combination with the sacrifices of the Greek people, as a result of the economic crisis that arouses the country - and I assure you that we have not borne the general aviation budget, as I said before, it was a planned training activity. The cost of training flights from the Air Force aircraft has been foreseen and is part of its operational budget. In particular, costs per flight time of fighter aircraft are provided for in an institutional text of the Armed Forces in Annex C to the Privacy Document L.308/96195/23-2-2018. It is a document of the HRM/C1, the classified of which is confidential, and cannot therefore be made public through this procedure in accordance with paragraph 4 of Rule 133 of the Greek Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In any case, however, if you wish to be aware of this document, you can be happy to come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs whenever you wish, in order to inform you. I wanted to say that personal relations do not concern the operational issues of the Armed Forces. On the question of the flight of the former HRD, he has answered Parliament's own procedure several times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u43	Perhaps the Minister did not understand from inexperience that he confirmed exactly what I said, namely that the first document was the communication of his representative, that it was in the context of a ceremony of delivery and receipt. I wonder: Is it in the context of the delivery and receipt of the Ministry of the European Union or Saudi Arabia? For in some other third world countries such traditions - receipts are carried out under the sound of weapons and other situations. In the democratic countries of Europe these are common cases and are not surrounded by any particular type, such as the one you described a moment ago. Because you remind me of something, you are sitting in the position of minister of a party that, when they were in opposition, had asked questions here, asking for aircraft flights to be abolished in the days of national holidays. If you now find this right to take place on the day when a minister's duties are handed over and received, then we must say that when the delivery and receipt takes place in the Ministry of Transport, trains and cars run. But I am standing on the other question, which you have not answered. If you want, you don't answer it. I'm telling you to protect you. In what capacity and with what permission was the flight made with Mr. Kammenos's helicopter? Secondly, what military regulation says that in the presence of the Chief of the Armed Forces is the regulation being violated and the Minister is sitting on a helicopter? Is that a problem for flight safety? You did not answer that, Minister. We're not concerned with your relationships. Besides, it's known. Here we have heard that you will become Minister from the post of a friendly site to the government ten days before you become. They told us where the meeting took place and what was discussed. We know that. It's none of our business. We are concerned about how each one of us performs his duties. I'm asking you, where you were a little military. If that was the case and you learned, a private person would climb a helicopter in the position of co-pilot, would you impose penalties, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u45	Mr Papoutsis, the debate today concerns a specific question you have asked. The rest, I think, is not the time, especially the matter of the flight of the Minister with a helicopter. As I said before, it has been answered too many times in the House. You said quite the opposite of what you said before. The flight took place in parallel with the operations of the aircraft. They didn't leave their mission. From what I've seen as the F.H.I.E.L.D., airplane rites are going through. Invoking Asian states and third world states is not a success. I repeat that Mr Kammenos has already answered in writing the questions of helicopter flights, and indeed Mr Georgiadis. I just add that Mr. Kammenos is a helicopter pilot, he has the ability to fly with that helicopter. So there is no question of security and concern.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u46	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u47	But I would like there to be no debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Colleague, you're not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u49	I would like us not to extend the debate on this matter because it has been answered and debated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u50	You've wrongly answered, because your answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Stamatis, you don't sound. Please, let the Minister finish. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u52	Mr Colleagues, I sum up by pointing out that the prices have been paid and will be attributed to the Armed Forces in accordance with their long-term traditions. I think it's something you've agreed to. Greece has a tradition in the Armed Forces and a price performance behaviour for the departers, which lasts for centuries. It's nothing different. If you want to know, in the traditions of A/HSY receipts, it is predicted to cross aircraft, and one of the two present was the former A/HSY. Aircraft flights over the ritual were taken into consideration with their daily and operational activity, without any burden on the state budget and all the rules laid down by the applicable United Forces' institutional texts were complied with. I repeat, however, with the emphasis that under no circumstances was there a service gap. Beyond all that has been discussed, I would very much ask you to accept my assurance as ex-SUE, but also as an officer of the Armed Forces for forty-two years - and I am entirely in this - that the national airspace as well as national territorial waters and our land borders are protected twenty-four hours a day, thirty-five days a year from the strong, reliable and with enormous deterrent forces of our country. We have proved that. Anyone who wants to question the territorial integrity of the country will receive an immediate and overwhelming answer. And I take this opportunity to reiterate, within Parliament's plenary session, that I am very proud of the women and men of the Armed Forces for their professionalism, their well-educated education and their high morality. They perform their mission with obsessed with the purpose and unique commitment to duty. Finally, because my speech, as I mentioned in my protology, is the first in the Greek Parliament, I would like to appeal and invite all political forces to reach a consensus on issues relating to national defence. I firmly believe that what unites us is more than what separates us. I wish, I seek and expect cooperation from all the wings of this Parliament, by addressing a message of unity in the sensitive area of national defence and security, but also of continuity and stability in our country's defence strategy away from political purposes. The moments are crucial and require unity and national consultation. From this Step I address everyone the possibility that they can come to the Ministry of National Defence and be informed of any matter. There are issues that we cannot discuss in a conspiracy. We have a lot of classified issues, but I will not deny anyone information at any time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-28-S1-commons.u54	With the consent of the House at 18.40 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 29 January 2019 at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
