ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 8-10-2019, the minutes of its CV's sitting on Tuesday 8 October 2019 were confirmed by the Bureau.]] At this point, I would like to read to you some communications. The Ministers for Development and Investment, Economics, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Tourism and State, as well as the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law on 9-10-2019: "I invest in Greece and other provisions". It is referred to the co-legislative committees. The Member, Mr Charalambos Papademitriou, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 25 October 2019 to 29 October 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS By letter of 10 October 2019, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informed the House that it was impossible to present the Minister of Interior Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos, who is addressed by Nov. I should like to ask the President-in-Office whether he is prepared to give us an answer. The topical and urgent debate is as follows: Questions Nos 64-10-2019 and 69-7-10-2019 Question No 495/4-9-2019 pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Mitsarakis. No. No. 84/8-10-2019 topical and urgent question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr Constantine Skreka. Please, as you do, in order to inform both the President-in-Office and the honourable Members of the proceedings.’ Now we will discuss the second question with number 697-10-2019 in the first cycle of the MEP of the Change Movement, Michalis Katrin, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on 'Regulating the debts of the Improvement Agency'. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, GEOV Peninsula-Alfiou, like all the land improvements organisations, are as you know, very well public non-profit-making organisations and have been in the past several years in a difficult financial position and with quite functional problems, which are now threatening the proper provision of services to farmers through irrigation. In particular, as regards Elias, the region's enhancement of the area is also marginal because of its duplicate maintenance. A very large part of the electromechanical equipment has been in operation for many years, while the piece that is undergoing is judged by all the experts as a marginal operating system. There are problems in the pumping facilities, all the other equipment of the enhancement project, as well as in central canals. Of course, you understand that any malfunctioning throughout the whole GEB will lead to a dead end to all producers and the Elias Prefecture and the local economy in the region, because the consequences are obvious. The same problems - I know very well, as I know you are aware of the situation - are facing many organisations in almost all of Greece. A large part of the debts and the difficult financial situation, which leads the agencies to this dead end, are both debts to PPC but also to EKA, so that they are no longer able to meet their current obligations. Of course, all this creates them a great deal of trouble in any attempt to do, to study the modernisation of the network, which I think is necessary in the new circumstances. Of course, the institutions with liabilities fall under the arrangements. What the agencies themselves ask for, and we ask whether this possibility exists because of their particular nature, is that the agencies, in particular the Pineapple-Alpheus Agency, should be provided by the Ministry for a favourable regulation of write-offs of all kinds of increases, fees and interest due to unpaid payments. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, the proper functioning of these agencies contributes primarily to the rural development of the country, and it is a matter of the Ministry of Rural Development, in which I urge you to exercise proper parliamentary control over the general issues that these agencies are concerned with and the role they play in the course of the local and national economy. Your question to me relates more specifically to the issue of the debts of these agencies to the ECA, for which the government has already legislated the one hundred and twenty instalments regulation. This is the best regulation ever made in our country and has given legal and natural persons the opportunity to leave the years of the crisis behind. Turns out from the evidence we have, four hundred thirty-three thousand debtors joined the arrangement. These constitute a third of the total number of debtors to the social security system and, from what is evident, some EUR 4.5 billion will be set aside. Government care is with a mix of different economic policy, reduced taxes and contributions to support the Greek economy, create jobs, reduce unemployment and help natural persons and businesses to create better in the coming years. This regulation, as you know, covers a range of doses of a whole decade at a favourable interest rate of 3%, with a low minimum dose and with the removal of forced confiscation measures - which is very important - which allows organisations to receive insurance information, which is particularly important for their operation. Looking at the General Agency for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, I would like to inform you of the following: it owes a total of EUR 2 million for insurance contributions, an average of seventeen workers. It has social security debts, Mr. Comrade, since 2004. It is worthy of particular attention how it has been possible for such an agency not to be informed for 15 years and for seventeen workers on average - I think it has fewer - to owe a total of EUR 2 million, of which EUR 1.3 million is the main debt. I know - and this is a subject of discussion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - that there is a provision of the 2011 Act, No.3935, which limits the responsibility of those who manage such organisations to debts to the social security system, so that, as a result of various such regulations, we have historically arrived at a time of EUR 35 billion, money from the Greeks, money from the Greek people to the social security funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much. I do not know whether the debts of the GOI Alpheus-Penios or of the other GFCFs are the main reason for the debts in the country's insurance funds. According to my information, the agency is indeed owed EUR 3 million. However, the largest part, Mr Minister, relates to the debts to PPC and almost half a million are the debts to the insurance funds. I know the setting of 20 doses. It was indeed a regulation that was beneficial. In addition, we voted in favour of it in the House. Minister, precisely because we have seen that not only many of our fellow citizens, and organisations and natural persons, have not succeeded and have not been able to come, but also because the Citizens' Counselor himself had to ask for an extension twenty days ago, we asked for a change movement not just a one-week extension, but a longer deadline so that citizens and organisations could be subject to this favourable regulation. We asked for a new extension yesterday and for your counterpart, Mr Karamanlis, who was then the prime minister, to refuse to do so. He said it was the last extension that was given and, anyway, we should go to that country at some point to get into a logic of early payments. At the same time, however, Minister Staikoras has said that a permanent mechanism for regulating debt will be introduced. So the statements are a little contradictory. You know very well, Minister, that these agencies carry debts from the past. The administrations, however, also alter the debts of the past, the debts and the problems are working - unfortunately with criminal responsibilities and with the removal of bank accounts - those who are running today and have the responsibility for the orderly functioning, even if they have entered into another framework of operation. So the state must not only revert to the bad texts of the past, which it is obviously trying to heal, but try to ensure that the conditions of normal operation are met. Furthermore, I would like to tell you that recently the Greek Committee of the Regions, through its President, Mr Agorastos, asked the then Minister of Finance to grant a loan from the Deposit and Loan Fund at a low interest rate to the Impairment Bodies so that they could repay these debts. You know very well that at the moment, in the majority of organisations throughout the country, pumping stations operate under insurance measures because PPC has gone into closure because of the debts. You know very well that the one hundred and twenty-dollar regulation - which has rightly been done - is reducing their income and revenue from the OEMs so that they can repay any debts. And we are talking about debts that are at least EUR 45 million to PPC, with a regulation of thirty-six months. You understand that an organisation must try to respond to all its debts, to all those who have to. I think you also know very well - and I am ending with this - that the years of the crisis, regardless of the omissions or oligopoies, and the collection of the debts by individual producers - and not only the producers and all those who had rights on the parcels, even in the municipalities, have been reduced to 50%. So beyond any omissions, which no one wants here, nor to cover nor to overthrow them, there was an objective weakness. The point is that now because these agencies are doing exactly this work and because I think that they have entered, like this agency, in a process of regulating and carrying out their obligations, I believe that there should be a similar political decision by the Ministry to give all of these agencies an opportunity by reducing increases and fees or by reducing their obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u8	The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for your dentistry. As I said in my prototype, you raise interesting and important issues for the proper functioning of these agencies, and I repeat my proposal to put it as a matter of parliamentary scrutiny in the relevant Ministry of Rural Development, to give you a more comprehensive answer on the issues relating to these agencies. With regard to the one hundred and twenty instalments, the government's view is that sufficient time has been given to those who want to join in this regulation and the results of the success of the regulation demonstrate the rightness of this proposal. And from there on, we had to stop this uncertainty with the debts, close the accounts as quickly as possible with the past and be able to look at the future with more optimism. With regard to the agency we are debating today, indeed its largest debts are in PPC, it is EUR 2.7 million in accordance with a document sent to us by the Public Power Corporation. There are a total of ten such organisations, but there are two or three of them in debt. This agency, as I have told you, has been in debt since 2004 since the debts started until now EUR 1.3 million basic debt, EUR 2 million as a whole with the increments. Indeed, the administrations are interchangeable, but the Agency also has its responsibility, as is provided for in the current legal framework. I want to tell you that they were reinstated in a dosing program. In 2015 they joined a special regulation of a hundred and fifty doses and paid only five and abandoned this arrangement. They were re-adjusted in early 2010 and did not pay any dose. And now they've been reinstated on 4 October in 20 instalments, but the first dose has not yet been paid to activate the setting. From that point on, you realize that the Ministry of Labour and EKKA's responsible debt collection agency is moving and seizures have been imposed on third parties' hands, which will be lifted when the one hundred twenty-dollar adjustment is started. It is particularly important for all those who have joined this arrangement to be consistent with the doses so that there is no question of restoring seizures made and enforcement measures. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. And now we move on to the first with number 64/1-10-2019 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary State of the Radical Left Coalition.Happy Ahtsoglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Three-year cancellation risk at the minimum wage". Here, Mrs. Ahchioglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my question concerns the very serious issue of three years of wage increases, namely workers who receive the minimum wage because of their service. As you know, in February 2019 the SYRIZA government increased the minimum wage by 11% and abolished the underpaid wage by law. Our political position and the government position of SYRIZA is that three years, namely wage increases due to three years' service must be maintained, because it is a very important income support for the tens of thousands of workers paid the minimum wage. Our legal position has been and is that the existing legal framework is sufficient. In other words, while Law 4172/13 laid down the new way of setting the minimum wage, the previous Law of 2012, which precisely provides for an increase in wages due to the three years, was maintained. The two laws therefore apply at the same time. Therefore, there should be no legal problem. But because it was our political position, the very vertical one, that there should be three years, I personally issued as long as I was Minister and a related interpretative circular, where I predicted that the three years would now be calculated in the new minimum wage of 650 euros. A worker with five years of pre-service should therefore receive a minimum wage of EUR 715 and not EUR 650. A few months ago, the Greek Industrial Association, BSE, applied for the annulment of this act. He said he's not a circular, that he couldn't insult a circular. He said it was a regulatory act. On the substance, he said that there should be no three-year minimum wage. In fact, BSE in its place says that the law of 1913, the law proposed by the current minister, that is, should actually lead to wage reductions. For even that one employee had two years and took 703 euros. With the activation of the law and the increase in wages, the BSE question says that this worker should see a 50 euro wage reduction. At the time of the national elections, I have not heard the New Democracy Government raise this issue. It's very critical and it's about tens of thousands of workers. First of all, I want to know what your political position is, in other words, if you think that there should be, that the three-year minimum wage, increases due to pre-service and, secondly, how you intend to preserve this, given that the request for the cancellation of BSE is a short time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis. Here, Mr Mitarakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Colleague, you referred to the previous government's legislative initiative in 2018. It would be more constructive if you started from the negative effects of SYRIZA's governance over the period 2015-2019. Because as you know, the return to the recession in 2015 led to the inappropriate third memorandum and the consequences that this had on the minimum wage and, more generally, on the wages of the workers. We have seen the vertical increase in tax burdens, the slow and low-quality divergence in unemployment over the previous period. You spoke of the minimum wage and talked about the underpaid wage. I would remind you that it was a permanent New Democracy position, before you were abolished by you, that now this minimum wage had to be abolished and we agreed when you did so. You also remembered the increase in the minimum wage in 2018, the amendment you then tabled. You did not say, however, that the provision for an increase in the minimum wage was introduced into the legislation by Law No 4172/2013 on the Government of New Democracy and Minister of State Yiannis Vroutzis, the “Galeral Law” that you said at the time when you voted against it. Under Article 103 of the Law of 2013, a new procedure was provided for - a mechanism for creating a statutory minimum wage and a minimum wage for private sector workers. What you did not say in your prototype is that according to the law of the Government of New Democracy, the increase in the minimum wage and the minimum wage had to take place on 1 January 2017. I repeat 1 January 2017, period when you were Minister of Labour. Why did the increase of the minimum wage not take place in 2017? Did the SYRIZA Government ever put the country in a programme, in the third memorandum, and you lost two years to raise the minimum wage in relation to the forecasts of the previous government? And why don't you say clearly - for people to know - that all you have done with your own amendment is to put a new date of application, two years late, in the Brutsi Act? And these for the minimum wage, for which the Prime Minister has promised to increase significantly in the coming years, depending on the rate of growth of the Greek economy. As regards the three years, they were maintained in the period 2012-2015 despite the strong pressure of the institutions at the time. And I heard you - and it is good - saying that SYRIZA's view is that the legal framework of the New Democracy Government in the period 2012-2015 is sufficient, as you said, for the protection of workers. I consider this to be a very great pretext for the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. Mrs Ahtsoglou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u15	Mr Metarakis, I have not heard what your position is for the three years ahead of the BSE cancellation request. What does the government intend to do - my question is clear - and what is its position on the request for the cancellation of BSE? What is the government's position? How is it placed in the application for the cancellation of BSE? What's he saying? Is BSE right? Was BSE wrong? What's he saying? And what does it intend to do in line with the decision of the Council of State? That is my basic question, to which I have not received an answer. I now come to the rest of the question of an inappropriate third memorandum and an increase that the New Democracy would make. The New Democracy has been stigmatized by its period of work. New Democracy reduced the minimum wage by 22% and by 32% for young people and introduced the underpaid wage. So all these proclamations that we would abolish it, but you and everything came, there are also recorded realities. She introduced the underprivileged wage for young people, stripped unemployment in the previous period at the countless level of 28%. In the governance of SYRIZA, we have had a very significant reduction in the unemployment of 10 percentage points - you know that - and we have also had a significant increase in the minimum wage and the abolition of the minimum wage. But I hear very often the argument that if SYRIZA had not come, the wage would have been increased since 2017. As you know, the law invoked, when it was introduced in 2013, that the minimum wage mechanism would not be put into effect before the end of the memoranda, before the end of the budgetary adjustment programmes. I don't know if you think the memorials were over and the country was ready at the end of 2014 to proceed to a new development period. Do you believe that with a country that borrowed more than 6% of interest, a country that has a licence for public funds, a country that could not complete a government that could not complete the fifth evaluation of the programme? The institutions at that time, Mr Mitarakis, said in their report that the programme is inversely out of the way, not that it is being completed and asked for Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos to take forward measures of EUR 8 billion in 2015 only to extend the existing programme. If you all see this as a way out of the memorial and developmental dynamics, I really don't know what to say. The reality is that the minimum wage increase became a reality by the government of SYRIZA, as well as the abolition of the subordinate, because there was a clear exit from the memoranda in the summer of 2018. From there on, however, I repeat my request to answer specifically what you intend to do with the three years. And I would also like you to answer specifically whether your government has to respect Mr Mitsotakis' election commitment to raise the minimum wage in 2020, not in general. Mr Mitsotakis said in an election that 2020 will increase twice the level of growth. This is a position much less than the SYRIZA commitment to an increase of 7.5%, but in any case it is an increase. Is this going to happen? Because I didn't hear him join the IGC and caused him by Mr. Tsipras. Is this an increase going to take place? I want specific answers, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Mr Metatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u17	I cannot start by answering what you asked me if I believe that the country would come out of the crisis in 2014 if there were no SYRIZA government. The answer is clear. Yes, the country would have come out of the crisis if it weren't for the SYRIZA government. It led us many years back, brought us an inappropriate third memorandum, loaded the Greek people with tax burdens, brought the Katorugalos law - which was considered unconstitutional - and reduced pensions. All this would not have happened if the Tsipras government did not exist. This is the political part of the answer. As to the issue of the minimum wage increase, you do not disagree. You confirmed that you implemented the 2013 Bruce Act with two years' delay. This was the account of SYRIZA governance to people working with the minimum wage. They waited two years for the increase because you ruled. On the issue of unemployment, as you know, unemployment began to deviate at the end of 2013 on the New Democracy Government. You only succeeded in continuing to reduce it linearly, slowly and with low-quality employment. So I do not think there is much to say on the question of combating unemployment. As for the Prime Minister's commitments, I think he has proved in practice in the first three months that he respects all his commitments and makes them faster than he promised before the elections. So don't worry about this government's commitments. What we say will be implemented. Now we're going on three-year-olds. Mrs Ahchioglu, I find it difficult to understand what your position is over the three years, because you have made a ministerial decision, 4241/2019, on the application of the minimum wage, and you have not said a word about the three years, you have ignored them. And you had to come with a circular a few weeks later, after some outcry, which, as I understand, existed in the Ministry of Labour, which told you you forgot about three years ago. And you came with the circular to say something different from what you said in the ministerial decision, and that is why you have created the problem in the Council of State, which is judged whether the circular is or is not regulatory. That is the issue in the Council of State. You have come with a circular that you did not anticipate in your own ministerial decision. Do you believe in three years? If you believed them, why didn't you put them in the ministerial decision? That's what you need to answer, Mrs. Ahchioglu. On the question of the position of the Ministry we have tabled our proposals to the Council of State, as envisaged. We support the existing legislation and the New Democracy Government supports the rights of workers at all times. Don't doubt that. Don't worry about it. We know how to do our job right. We will support workers at every opportunity and we will be hard on employers who do not implement the existing legislation. This is the Government of the New Democracy. Your position for the three years you forgot to put it in your ministerial decision and you created the whole problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. I have the honour to announce that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as is true, from 9-10-2019 criminal case law concerning the ministers that have been appointed: 1) Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotos and 2) Shipping and Islamic Policy, Theodoros Dricas. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House the FAQ on Friday 11 October 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 81/8-10-2019 topical question by MP V West Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of Finance, on "NN Hellas Contract solutions" and "reactions". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 65/1-10-2019 by MP Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Mobile red tape units provide primary health care in Thessaly". 3. The Question No 70/7-10-2019 by F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The functioning of the pediatric clinic of the General Trikalon Hospital." 4. The question by No 76/8-10-2019 that was raised by MP I of Athens of Day25 Mr.Angeliki Adamopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘Amendment by an Act of Legislative Content of Article 56 Ν.4139/2013 on ΚΕΤΗ’. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 83/8-10-2019 by MP Rethymnon of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The abolition of the self-interest of the Centre for the Treatment of Extended Persons and the design in the field of dealing with dependency". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 66/2-10-2019 of the Greek MP of the Movement of Change Mr Charalambous Kastanidis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘The intentions of the Government for the Organisation for Urban Transport of Thessaloniki (OSTH)’. 3. The Question No 72/7-10-2019 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Let the employees of Rios be paid". 4. The question by number 78/8-10-2019 of the Member of the Argolida Movement of Change Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on "Surprise abolition of the system of self-government of the CDE by Act of Legislative Content". 5. The question by number 747-10-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Serious deficiencies of earthquake shielding in the schools of the country". 6. The question by No 37/24-9-2019 from MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Mousala, Minister for Civil Protection, on "Designing the Government for the Refugee - Migration question". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 39/24-9-2019 by Congressman Pireias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Tryphotos Alexiades to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Exemption of the training of auditors to private companies". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 106-2-8-2019 by the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Syrmaleneou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious operational problems of the General Hospital of Thera arising from the intake freeze." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 428/28-8-2019 by Congressman Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Great problems and serious risks from the lack of personnel of ambulance/rescue crews in the EKA". We enter its debate under No 495/4-9-2019 on the only question from the references - questions by MP Kilkis of the Change Movement Mr.Georgios Frangidis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Excuseless delays in the completion of the work of building the new building of the nursing house and the healing of chronic diseases of the Prefecture of Kilkis". Mr. Frangidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are discussing today an issue that has been a long-standing concern for Kilkis Prefecture society and has to do with the construction of the new Kilkis old home, which started as a project in 2006. There were 50 beds in the nursing home, other spaces such as administrative offices, treatment rooms, kitchens, laundry, care of the dead, locker rooms, maintenance office, concentration areas, facilities. Overall, structured surface, along with the semi-surfaced 3.923.4 square meters. Originally the owner of the project at the time, in 2006, was the nursing home and the healing of chronic Kilkis diseases, which was then owned by the Ministry of Health. However, by decision of November 2011, Saint Panteleimon of Thessaloniki, now under the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, joined the therapist's structures. I will give some information to understand the route and the evolution of this project. The date on which the project was auctioned was 30 January 2006. The contract was signed on 17 July 2006 with the contractor ‘ORKA S.A.’ and the implementation horizon until 16 July 2008 as an initial contractual date and an approved overall deadline, i.e. an extension of twenty-five months, which expired on 31 December 2016. The implementation agency was the Social Welfare Centre, the head of the Technical Projects Directorate of the Kilkis Region. Total amount of the contract, together with VAT and after the discount, was the sum of EUR 3,584 000 that had to be revised at some point by increasing it by EUR 300,000, according to the recapitalising working table. To date, the implementation of the project has reached about 80%, according to what the Technical Services Directorate of the Kilkis Region says, which is now proving that a new declaration should be made, for a new project, under a contract where new work needs to be carried out in order to close this project permanently and in total. The amount for the new work already exists, after joining the Public Investment Programme and is by decision taken by the then Minister of Development Mr. Treasury and the Deputy Minister Mr. Konstantinopoulos in October 2014 and is 700,000 euros. So the total amount is 4,284,000 euros. A lot of work has been done. I don't want to get tired of what happened. However, some remaining tasks have remained and have to be completed with the amount available, EUR 700,000. So I ask, on the basis of that. How do you intend to proceed directly with the completion of the project, giving a definitive solution to a chronic issue that concerns the Kilkis Prefecture and what is the exact timetable for the implementation of the work that is missing for the completion of the project? Secondly, has the competent body clarified the way in which the project is continued and what steps are you going to take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis. Mr. Metarakis, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you have indeed described what the people would say, a painful story. A public work in our country, which has been a long time ago and shows a structural pathogen that we have in such matters of public procurement, notices and executions, topics for those who have dealt with local government have experienced them firsthand. Indeed, the project was launched in 2006 on the New Democracy Government, with a budget of EUR 3.6 million. In 2008, the Technical Services Directorate recommended increasing this budget by EUR 700,000, because additional work had to be done. For some years the work hasn't moved. In 2014, the then Minister of Development Mr Nikolaos Dendias, after the intervention of the then Deputy Minister of Education Mr. Georgantas, proceeded with funding with the further EUR 700,000 for the continuation of the work and the completion of the project. Comment by Sitaridou - Chrysopraios: But then the SYRIZA government came and from 2015 until today, as far as I'm concerned, nothing has happened in this project at all. And it's not the only project, Mr. Colleague, that SYRIZA left all over the Greek territory. We all know in our own regions how many projects have been left behind and absolutely nothing has been done for four and a half years. However, the Government of New Democracy aims to complete this project and on September 6, the responsible State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs Mr. Domna Michailidou visited with the Deputy Minister of Digital Policy Mr. Georgantas Kilkis, visited the project and progressed procedures to relaunch its construction. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that he has joined our Ministry's Public Investment Programme with a project budget of EUR 4.2 million and with payments up to EUR 3.1 million. So there is a balance of 1,2m euros, of which 400,000 euros are approved for 2019. All the appropriations requested have been transferred to the rest of the project today, we believe that it is sufficient to carry out the project. We note that by decision of the Region of Central Macedonia, the Technical Projects Directorate has approved the general extension of the duration of the project until 21 December 2019. I'll give more details to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Francis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u23	Mr Minister, first of all thank you for your reply. Looks like the play's getting a little ahead. Let me say that the construction of this new building has become like the bridge of Arta. It is a process of carrying out the work that lasts for thirteen years and has not yet been completed. And you know what? By 2016, according to the report made by the Department of Technical Works of the Kilkis Region to the Ministry of Labour, the work had already been carried out for about 70% of the building. This document sent by Kilkis District Technical Services to the Ministry of Labour did not first send it back then, and it was sent again. Unfortunately, however, nothing has happened so far. According to your answer, I hope that what you say will come true. Because you know many times that, unfortunately, we are not honoured, but that is what we say - we say things, we go through the weather and in the end nothing happens. I therefore hope that this with the EUR 400,000 that you said about 2019 will go ahead, that this project will finally end, and then we need to help and activate for the equipment now, which is something different. And since there is this amount you said - I spoke at the outset about 700,000 that were approved at the time by Mr Tyres - on the basis of what has been paid, the rest is over 1 million. It means, therefore, that no other essential reason for delaying the completion of this work can be used anymore. The construction of this new building, the nursing home and the healing of chronic diseases is essential to all Prefecture Kilkis. And you know, Minister, that structure, once it is implemented, will qualitatively enhance the hospitality and care of third-age people, of which many need increased care, because of their chronic illnesses. In other words, it is a work with a great social offer which can offer decent living solutions to our fellow citizens who need it. So unjustified delays from now on for its completion work prejudicially for the local community. It is morally unacceptable to deaf and be indifferent every time to the managers using an alibi. There is therefore no justification for further delay and completion of the project. The thirteen years of promise have made the citizens of Kilkis Prefecture a strong feeling of questioning the credibility of the state. Finally, I would like to ask you, Minister, whether there is going to be a new meeting with the relevant officials to update the data, as there may be changes in the regulations governing the project execution and the specification of materials and installations. I say this because then these changes may become a cause for the delay in the project. That is why I ask you if you are planning to hold a new meeting with the relevant bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. You have described the problems that arise in such contracts and the structural problems that we have as Ministries and regional and local authorities in the implementation of such projects and the complexity created by the budget revisions and the problems of contractors which lead to great delays. The important thing is to stress that the aim of this government is to move forward and complete this work. The visit made by the State Secretary responsible, from the first days of this government's term of office in Kilkis, shows our interest in progress in the implementation of the project. For the fullest information, Mr Colleagues, I would like to submit two documents. I would like to submit a document from the Centre for Social Welfare in Central Macedonia dated 18 September, which describes the development of the project. This letter points out that delays had been observed in the past, due to the transfer of responsibility from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Labour, but this cooperation has been completed and the process has been restored and there are no longer any longer delays or interruptions to the work. I will also submit a document from the Ministry of Labour from the Public Investment Program, which demonstrates the funding that the project has, that it is integrated and that it has the necessary funds to proceed in 2019. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. South Mitarakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Indeed, the project has progressed significantly and has been completed by about 80%. The previous government in 2014 approved the additional funding. The new Government of the New Democracy is determined to complete it. Unfortunately, the four - year - old SYRIZA had no progress in the project. Now, however, this work is moving on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-three students and students and three their professors from the General School of Drosias Evia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It may seem strange to you that this Chamber is empty. That's a reasonable question, but that's the way it is. The Member is asking and the Minister is answering. That's the procedure for the topical and urgent questions. Good progress. Thank you for the visit. It will now be debated first under number 84/8-10-2019 in an up-to-date question by the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Remuneration for loss of production by the strong southerly'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you will perhaps have been informed of the sharp decline in olive oil production in our country in recent years due to many factors and, of course, of the punctuality programme and of the weather conditions or other causes involved in plant protection or issues of indifference and schino-carp. About ten days ago, a huge problem was added to Crete, especially to the olive growers in Heraklion and Rethymno Prefecture - and, of course, it is not only about olive cultivation, but mainly about olive cultivation - with the strongest southers who have hit the island and have done huge damage to olive production. What we have seen is, of course, happening immediately, is that the services have moved and made assessments, in general terms at the outset, and we call for the possibility and support to be given to local services, so that the process of individualised injury assessment can be quickly carried out, so that the corresponding resources, through the ELGA budget, can also be secured to compensate producers. Why am I saying that? Because if there were no damage to this year’s production, people would have been able to have a certain income. If compensation is delayed beyond this year's olive-growing season, then they will have a problem, given that in the previous years too, a large proportion of producers have had a reduction in their income. So what are you going to do so that we quickly have compensation for the producers affected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u28	The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas. Mr. Screka, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for the very correct question you have tabled. In fact, unfortunately, on 4 October 2019, strong winds with a intensity greater than eight bofors caused particular damage to plant production in areas of Crete, particularly in the areas, particularly in the northern area of the Regional Unit of Rethymno and Chania and in the wider area of the Heraklion Regional Unit, thus suffering significant production damage and thus having less revenue for these growers. The truth is that this is coming as a follow-up to a long, unfortunately low production with regard to olive crops, where this year it seemed that production would be very high, at least as far as the volume of production per acre and cultivation is concerned. The damage occurred mainly in olive crops, avocado crops and to a lesser extent in apples. From that point on, the Ministry of Rural Development and the services of ELGA responded immediately. There have been hundred and twenty reports of damage from local communities. The valuers of the ELGA proceeded directly to the first step in which the damage indicators were marked, i.e. to demarcate the areas affected by the weather phenomenon and where damage has been done. The second stage, as you know, is to have personalised estimates, which are carried out immediately after notification by the grower of the damage he has suffered to the ELGA. I have to tell you that farmers usually have 15 days to submit this declaration of damage, so that they can call on the ELGA and come to appreciate what they have suffered in their cultivation. To date - until yesterday to be more specific - I have to tell you that, unfortunately, only twenty-five declarations have been made on crop damage. So what we and I ask you, too, to contact your place, which you are interested in, is for farmers not to wait for a deadline of 15 days. Immediately they proceed to statements of the damage they have suffered so that the valuers of the ELGA come to the point in which they come to assess the damage, write the damage as we say and follow the subsequent procedures for the compensation procedures for growers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have pointed out an important problem that exists. The producer's confidence in the services of the Ministry of Rural Development has been lost to the ELGA, due to certain failures, due to the inertia of the previous government and, above all, to the lack of will to deal with even the bureaucratic problems that exist. What do I mean? Producers have been bombed these days, as in any case we have damages from weather phenomena or other causes, with the information "if what are you going to say, since you know that 30% of the county needs to be damaged, since the conditions are strict, since they never pay" etc. Yeah, well, there's a bad past experience, mostly for damages that go into the MAGPs. For PSEA programmes there is bad experience from producers and there is also a bad experience - particularly in Heraklion - from the 2004 snow, which really led to a change in the context. But today it needs to be understood - and that is what we want to do and I will do it for my part - that producers must declare the damage. There is no problem with the ELGA regulation. For those who are estimated to be damaged will be compensated. That is what I believe will be done with the Minister's commitment in the fastest way. So we'll have a certain result in relation to lost income. However, as the problems run and are multiple, as I have said, and are three and four years in connection with the reduction of production, I would ask you to see an income from the producers coming from the European Union, coming with the aids secured by the common agricultural policy. There is information that the OPEKEPE programme is to pay the aid on 24 October. This means that for all producers that have other banks, other than those associated with the OPEKEPE, they will have a delay for five, six more days, i.e. 28 October, etc. and we arrive in November. I would ask you because it is crucial that the dates for producers' obligations again to the public sector - i.e. payment of HICPs, payment of income tax, payment of other obligations - look closely at the issue with OPEKEPE, so that this payment can be made as soon as possible. If it is possible on 15 October to do this in order to help people and especially those who have suffered damage this year, and will not have the opportunity to receive income, or in previous years. Oil production has been affected. One thing we will discuss next is how we can raise this important crop, the national olive oil product, and give our support to producers so that they can regain the potential they had before. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Screkas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u33	Mr Kegeroglu, you have raised a very serious issue, which really needs to be considered by the state, so that we can see how we are going to move forward over the next few years and over the next decades and when we are dealing with the insurance of agricultural production. The reality is that the ELGA regulation, as you know, has been coming since 1950 and serious differences have not been made. And yet, the current reality in the Greek primary sector of agricultural crops and livestock has changed very much over the last few decades. And it is coming, unfortunately, that climate change, which is ringing at the door of Greece today, is further increasing this need, immediately to consider what changes need to be made to the insurance framework, which today governs crops, so as to ensure in the coming years farmers and the people of the toil that are in the countryside still keep our villages alive, but above all, to a large extent ensure the country's food security. Because we must never forget that. We are talking about many other things, about energy security, about many sectors of economics, and we are not talking in that country about the most important that is the primary sector, the agri-food sector, which ensures the primary, which is the fight against hunger and food security through the production of food, food, etc. So you know that the current government has set as a priority, to consider what changes need to be made in a sustainable way and in a medium- to long-term perspective, so as to ensure that the credibility of the insurance system in agricultural production also exists, but farmers will know that there is an organisation or an insurance framework that covers the trouble they are fighting for in the year. From there, I must tell you that the right point of view you made about the obligations to the public, to public bodies in general, including contributions to the ELGA and to the DKKO, such as PPC, is an issue that the Ministry has dealt with. I would like to inform you, if you have not already been informed, what we are doing with regard to the obligations of the farmers to PPC for the payment of electricity bills, because these accounts have come in August, and, unfortunately, the farmers have not yet received the advance payment of aid from OPECEP, as you have said very well, but most of them have not harvested or now are in the harvesting process, so they still have not sold their products to have revenues. After the cooperation of the Ministry of Rural Development and with the leadership of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and PPC - there has been a similar communication - we agreed that the possibility should be allowed, that farmers should be promptly invited to settle the debts even in accounts which have expired, even if they have stopped meeting a previous regulation to PPC. We agreed to come to PPC's stores and to proceed with a new first-dose regulation from November 2019, so that the advance payment of the aid has been prioritised and the collection is likely to be made by the harvest that they will sell, and indeed by an advance payment - I mean for the regulation - which will be determined at an individual level. Because you know very well that to make a settlement with PPC, the deposit was from 30% to 50%. The second thing we did was the contributions of ELGA in 2018. I would like to inform you that this has not yet been announced, but we have already proceeded with the necessary steps to get an extension by the end of October, so that farmers can pay contributions and so that they can be covered. From there on, the issue of the sustainability of the Greek primary sector is an issue that we will discuss in the next few days, weeks, months, during which Greece is negotiating with the other countries, the Member States of the European Commission, under the new common agricultural policy for 2021-2027. We will also have the opportunity at political level to discuss what we will propose as a government and as the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development in the years to come. We'll co-decide. We will call for consensus, debate and consultation with all parties, so that we can move forward with common objectives, common priorities and common plans to ensure the sustainability of farmers in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u34	Thank you both. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-10-S1-commons.u35	With the consent of the House at 10.34 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 11 October 2019, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny of topical questions.
