ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliamentary decisions: continuation of the debate on the revised provisions of the Constitution in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. At today's sitting, which corresponds to the 3rd, 4th and 8th thematic section of the Constitutional Review Committee, namely institutional provisions, referendum, popular legislative initiative and election of the President of the Republic, Articles 37(2), 38(1) and (2), 68(2), 84(2), 28(2), 44(2), 73 and 32(4) and (5) of the Constitution shall be discussed. Before we go to the rapporteur-general, I would like to inform you that an objection of unconstitutionality has just been filed by SYRIZA and has to be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u2	Objection of unconstitutionality?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u3	The Constitution?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u4	Mr Katrugale, this is a question of Article 100 of the Constitution, which I have seen now to remember and be sure. The first debate took place the day before yesterday. So now we're in the process. So I would first like you to say about the admissibility and not about the substance of the objection in the light of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, which says when the objections to constitutionality are raised. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, I will speak first on the admissibility of the request for unconstitutionality. This is the first time that a similar objection has been made to a revision process, because it is the first time that we have been in front of such a gross attempt to work the Constitution in contrast to Article 110. The possibility of presenting an objection to anti-constitutionalism is explicitly provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and in the revision procedure. I would remind you that Rule 119 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which states how the process of revision is developing parliamentaryally, expressly refers to Articles 95 to 104, so also to Rule 100, which provides for the objection of non-constitutionality. You have rightly said that Article 100 provides that the objection to anti-constitutionalism is being tabled in the first debate. However, since, in paragraph 10 of Rule 119, the Parliament's decision on the revised provisions is taken by a single roll-call vote and therefore not by separate votes in principle, in principle, in Article and in whole, this is a case of a single debate on the principle, on the articles and on the whole within the meaning of Rule 100(1)(c) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and, therefore, it is therefore possible to raise objections to the unconstitutionality of any provision until the start of the vote, i.e. until Monday. Therefore, because the Greek people hear us not to give the battle on the point of order. We have fundamental arguments on which we would like to hear the views of the New Democracy about why they want to degrade the role of the President of the Republic in a game in the hands of not even the parliamentary majority, but of a parliamentary minority. I would suggest, Mr President, if there is agreement from the other groups, then allow me to express the reasons for the objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u6	Let's hear them, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, do you want to wait to study this matter? Would you like to interrupt for a while? I said the article 100. I wanted to remember Rule 100 and I saw that it is. We do not have an amendment which can be made in the debate until the vote, to explain this. Because neither the debate on the principle nor the articles is uniform, so that they can be held later. It had to be done at the outset. I say what the Rules of Procedure say, and from there on the admissibility, we will see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u8	Very good, now listen to our opinion. Although our colleague is surprised, we, because we are in favour of parliamentaryism, of dialogue, of the exchange of arguments, even in the form of an objection of anti-constitutionality, in a procedure intended to revise the Constitution, want to discuss SYRIZA's views in the form that Mr Katrugalos has put forward. We want to fight, defending our views, because this imposes the democratic parliamentary duty on which we are firmly committed. So we want this process to continue, to hear the objections, to have our counterpart heard and from that point on, Parliament will decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u9	I have no objections, but the question is whether we are sticking to the Rules of Procedure or not. I understand your sensitivity, Mr Javarra, but it is a point of order. So, how do we do it? Are we going to overlook the provisions every time? I don't know if anyone else wants to speak from the other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, what is the objection of unconstitutionalism?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u11	We do not understand, Mr President, what the proposal consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Stylianides, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u13	I do not want to say anything, Mr President, but to understand what the proposal is, because it is unprecedented to object to unconstitutionalism in a review process. Let's see what it is to figure out whether it touches both the admissibility and the contents of the objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u14	Obviously. Perhaps you didn't see the text.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u15	You should have distributed the text to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u16	The text is not a 'non-revised' provision. The "revisor" is a financial surname - "to be reviewed" - but aggressive share "non-revisable". Obviously, that's what you mean, Mr. Catrugale? Unrevisionable, not a non-revisionable? Because it's different. One is a business surname, and the other is...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, when you give me the floor to raise the objection, I will give all these clarifications. Obviously, in order to raise objections to anti-constitutionality, as set out in Article 110, there are grounds for referring both to the procedural procedure and to the essential possibility of revising the provision of Article 32(4).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u19	Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Since I understand that you have a different view of the Rules of Procedure, and the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, said that the vote is becoming uniform in principle, on the articles and on the whole, it is, firstly, thought that the debate is also a single one. Secondly, Articles 95 to 104 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure apply, where the objection of non-constitutionality is provided for in Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. And as to whether it is an unconstitutional objection to the process of reviewing the Constitution, I will tell you this because it also sounds 'objection', if you like, on the part of the Coupling. The Greek Constitution is a strict constitution and defines the conditions of its revision to Article 110. Therefore, if anyone can verify whether the conditions laid down in Article 110 of the Constitution are fulfilled, for the revision of the constitution or not, this is the House, which has the presumption of competence. It is good interpretatively not to close - and it is not going to close - the question of whether the Supreme Special Court has the ability to express an opinion and, finally, to judge whether the procedure has been complied with or has not been complied with. I tell you that if anyone is surely competent to verify whether the Constitution meets the same conditions as the Greek Parliament. I therefore think that an objection of unconstitutionality is put forward to control by the Greek Parliament even though the strict conditions laid down in Article 110 of the Constitution are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u22	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u23	I am very grateful to the SYRIZA colleagues who have informed me that I did not have time to hear. The truth is, Mr President, that this objection is a surprise from the point of view of the admissibility. But, first of all, and with a glimpse of the text, which Mr Katrugalos was kind enough to give me, it is clear that a objection of constitutionality can be raised in the process of revising the Constitution. It is acceptable, in my first response, that their request be made. It would firstly be unacceptable, Mr President, to judge it unacceptable. I fully disagree with having practice like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u24	We've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u25	We've been through it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u26	Excuse me, Mr Loverdo, but I say what the Rules of Procedure provide for.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u27	Excuse me very much, would you like to write me the speeches? Thank you very much, so do me this favor. I'm relieved of the trouble, too. What does "we've talked about it" mean? Wouldn't anyone else express themselves?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Loverdos, I said what the Rules on Admissibility say. But if all the rapporteurs agree, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u29	Let me finish, Mr President. And I don't allow anyone to think that because he said something, that can't be reassigned by someone else in his own way. They'll do us a favor! Now we're going to the point. That is what this objection to content brings us to mind. He's rejecting the substance. I am not going to use the arguments we have used - and indeed - in the proposed House on the question of guidelines.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u30	I'm sorry to interrupt you, but if we're all in agreement, we're gonna have to listen first to the objector and then he'll answer the substance. Because now we're talking about the admissibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u31	Clearly. So my note, in my first position, that there is an essential question of rejecting the objection does not affect my judgment on the admissibility. We will not function in a pretext here, we will function as the Constitution imposes. Therefore, Mr President, we also consider that this request is admissible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, may I have the floor on the admissibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u33	To conclude first the parliamentary representatives, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u35	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, we do not think there is any question that we should not go ahead with examining the substance of the objection of anti-constitutionality on the basis of Article 110.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u37	Any other rapporteurs want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u39	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, the truth is that we too have been surprised, but as to the admissibility of saying that we are open to dialogue. It does not mean that we will agree or reject something, we simply have to consider it, take it in our hands, see what they are asking. That is what we want, to see what happens, to take it into our hands, at least as far as we are concerned, from the moment that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. From that point on, we reserve to answer, but let's see what SYRIZA wants. What the honourable Member has in his hands now is what we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u42	Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, thank you. We also believe that, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of this House and as Mr Katrugalos has said, once there is a single debate on the principle and on the articles, and there is a possibility of bringing the objection to the vote to the vote, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u44	Maybe I didn't understand that there is in the first place. It is not a single debate. Anyway. Mr. Stylianides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u45	First of all, Mr President, as has our rapporteur at the outset, we do not raise procedural questions. The debate in plenary on the revision of the Constitution is the top parliamentary debate and each side can say and support what it wants. It is simply what is disturbing to us that a deep democratic tradition has been violated since 1974, which wanted the political forces to consult, discuss, disagree or compose. They hide behind procedural points of view, which have been completely rejected by the academic community. We are prepared here to hear Mr Katrugalos' arguments. I think, however, that if they wanted to make a creative contribution to this fruitful dialogue, which started by the committee, they had to say their objections to the procedure at the outset. In any case, we are talking about them now. To listen and see how good scientific and legal they are to claim.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u46	Anyway, I will not go in the direction given to the House, because it is a very big issue and I have a completely different view. However, my opinion does not play a part, but the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Gerapitris, the Minister of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u49	To what extent, Mr President, will the Minister take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u50	Don't talk then, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u51	The admissibility, not the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u52	Let the Minister join us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u53	I said, if he wants to. So there is no point in getting into the bottom of the debate. Minister, if you want to speak, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u54	I want to contribute! It's not that she needs anything. We're in a conciliation procedure. I think - if anything - that the parliamentary majority has shown a relative magnanimity on both the issues of the procedure and the issues of the substance. We have not made major concessions, nor do we have a majority of things to deal with. That's what we should at least agree on! That also applies to the committee, as it is now. I would like to point out that this objection of unconstitutionality is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because Rule 119(4) expressly states that the analogous application in the articles of the legislative procedure, which includes the objection of non-constitutionality, is only in the House proposed and not in the House of Reform. The issues of unconstitutionalism in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament may only be raised in the first House. And that makes perfect sense, ladies and gentlemen, why? - because constitutionality cannot strike in the Review House, which has a very high function in relation to any other function. So, in that sense, Rule 119(4) only applies to the nominated parliament. However, as Mr Javarras and Mr Stylianides have said, we are prepared to hear it even if it is unprecedented for a review function to raise the issue of unconstitutionality. Within the Review House, it has never occurred since 1864. We will, however, accept it because we must respect the institution we serve today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would like the Minister to explain something to us. Article 119(4) does not say what you say. Please tell us what you mean because your thoughts are interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u56	As long as the substance of the objection is discussed, there is no problem, we have agreed. Let go of the dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u57	Let me answer Mr. Loverdo, then! Don't I participate again?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u58	Minister, you'll answer later. I think that's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u59	So let me read out what Article 119(4) and (5) states: 'After submission, or the deadline for submitting the Commission's report on the revision of the Constitution...'. We're at the stage of the nominated parliament. Paragraphs 1 to 8 refer to the Proposed House. Paragraphs 9 and 10 refer to the decisive Review House. Paragraph 5 therefore states that the provisions of Articles 95 to 104, which include the possibility of objecting to anti-constitutionalism as a minority right of the Member, are applied mutatis mutandis. Therefore, in the revised Parliament, a similar application of Rule 100 simply does not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u61	Since we've actually agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, but that's not the case. He's making an observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u63	All right, should we develop theoretical constructions here now? But it is a question of whether or not the provision is revised or not, not a reviewer. These issues have been resolved. In any case, the President is not allowed to take a fundamental position, but I want to help. The question here is whether the provision is revised, not a reviewer. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u64	The Minister made an observation to us, so it's a matter of respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u65	What did I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u66	I'll tell you what you told us. It has made the point that the admissibility has an objection and we are out of the House's Rules of Procedure. Article 119(4) has nothing to do with this. Article 119(5) is closer. However, it does not matter, Mr President, that the definition of the Rules of Procedure with regard to the Proposing and the Revision House is not relevant in relation to an issue that arises for the first time. This is the first time we've dealt with it, Minister. We've never dealt with it before. We shall therefore look at the admissibility or not of this objection in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Is it possible, when we deliver a text to which we do not have a debate on guidelines, as regards the official interpreter of the Constitution - and also, as the theory has unanimously recorded, there are hardly any anti-constitutional provisions in the Constitution - when an objection is lodged in the Chamber, not to look at it and there are doubts as to the admissibility? It is all the parliamentary forces in favour that there is no question of admissibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u67	It's understood, good. Ladies and gentlemen, before we actually enter the Chamber, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-four students and students and three teachers from the 7th Municipal School of Vyron. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u69	Here, Mr Katrugale, you have the floor, please, on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I shall be on top of this. But let me surprise what I have heard from my friend and fellowman Mr Gerapititi. If the provisions in this House did not have the ground for application, then on what basis is the debate taking place? In substance, because the objection of unconstitutionality must be considered - I am referring to what Mr Loverd has said - it is obviously so. But there is something else I was surprised about. My colleague and fellowman knows well that the executive has not been involved in the review process. I, when I had the role of the rapporteur, was not sitting in these chairs, sitting here, It is a great institutional hypocrisy on the part of the government that we are absent from the benches, when it comes to matters in which the government is involved - it is not excluded from the Constitution that the government - such as in the debate on the investigation of criminal responsibilities for civilian staff and today, when we know that the executive is certainly not involved in the review process, from taking the floor not as a Member but as a minister, but as a minister, in order to express an opinion, which wants to prevent Parliament from controlling the serious anti-constitutionalities to which we shall refer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u71	That's right! Maximum topic!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u72	I would now like to take the opportunity to speak on the essential grounds and from a position of my respectable chairman also of the Committee on Review, Mr Stylianides. It called for surprise, and we are allegedly left by a tradition of Parliament to seek the revision of the Constitution. First of all, I would like to say that our views on the constitutionality of the procedure, which are the first part of the objection, are well aware of them from the first House. Secondly, the whole process on the part of the government's voting party in the Proposed House for the election of the President of the Republic is a flagrant example of tooling, degenerating the constitutional reform process at a simple bay level. I remind you what New Democracy did. In December 2014, he tabled a proposal for a revision of the Constitution, with the signatures of Mr Samaras and Mr Mitsotakis, in which he proposed that the election of the President of the Republic should be by direct elections by the people. We, as a SYRIZA, submit this proposal as a proposal for revision in the House. As is right, the New Democracy is differentiated from this proposal and it is tabling a proposal which, as I shall put forward in the second part of the objection concerning the substantial violation of Article 110, provides for the election of the President of the Republic not even by a majority of fifty-one, but even by a parliamentary minority. But what does the New Democracy do for the vote? Instead of voting for her own proposal in the House, she votes for SYRIZA's proposal. That is what we call the so-called 'collaps'. You voted in favour of a proposal with which you were essentially against. Isn't that a constitutional trick? So you said you would do this so that you could vote in the next House for something else. That is to say, you are voting today 'alpha' and in the next House 'alpha'. What I have said so far refers to the degrading of the constitutional process and proves that you are the abstract of a genuinely long-term respect for the revision process. But now I am thinking of why your behaviour is not just anti-political, because it affects the authority and legitimacy of the political world, but it is also unconstitutional. We have often had the opportunity to express our opinion that Rule 110(2), precisely because it stipulates that the Proposing House also identifies the need for the Review, so it justifies the direction it should have, commits itself to that - the reasoning accepted by the Proposed House - the revision. In short, yes, although it does not specify exactly the content of the revised provisions - this is something to be done by the second Review House - but also the first Review House, the proposing one, which defines the scope within which the Review may move. This has been accepted by the plenary sessions of the highest courts, which have the opportunity to judge the constitutionality of the procedure. It has been decided by the Supreme Special Court in its judgment No 11/2003, which has been held by the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State in its judgment. However, since this is not only a legal process, but also a policy, I will read to you what Mr Venizelos said about the 2001 Review procedure to support precisely this view: 'Let us remember the 1985-1986 review. In 1985, the PASOK proposed a revision of the chapter on the President of the Republic in the direction of declining responsibilities. Assuming that the PASOK lost the elections in 1985 and that another House with another majority of the New Democracy was in place, could we have a revision of the Constitution in the direction of increasing competences? Of course not.’ So that's what you're trying to do. You are voting in favour of the immediate election of the President of the Republic in the proposed parliament, you forget your signature in the 2014 Review proposal, you forget your vote and you are now coming to suggest the opposite. This is a mistaken and degeneration of politics, something we are paying for with the authority of the political world, and it is only for these reasons that you should not do. I now come to the essential part of our objection. Your proposal stipulates that, without an election, unless a qualified majority is gathered, the President of the Republic shall be elected by an absolute majority of fifty-one votes and, if it is not assembled, by a qualified majority. And move forward with an innovation that is an atabism. If there is a tie to forty, for example, votes, then the oldest, the older, will be elected. Where did you find this, colleagues of the New Democracy? Where similar provisions existed, referring to old age as a selection criterion, they have been repealed. For example, in the European Parliament, it was actually predicted that the oldest Member of Parliament was taking on the debt of the President until the Bureau was elected. They were all considered obsolete and abolished. Unfortunately, however, it is part of the general trend of regression and atabism, which distinguishes you. So far, however, these - you are right to say - are not unconstitutional, they are backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u73	The unconstitutionality of telling us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u74	You're right. What I have referred to so far is backwards. It's not anti-constitutional. I close with the chapter of unconstitutionalism, where unconstitutionalism lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u75	Please don't interrupt. You will be given the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u76	All of you will be placed, ladies and gentlemen, I just have the feeling that my remarks have been 'narrowed'. Otherwise, I can't imagine why you're escalating. Our Constitution, as you know, provides for non-revisionable provisions that define the form of the constitution. The form of the constitution is the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic and the role of the President in it is the regulator of the constitution, can be a point of balance for the culture - to borrow a phrase, used by our parliamentary representative - and should not be a binding, unscrupulous of the parties, so that it can carry out this regulatorial role. In order to be able to accomplish it with enhanced authority, our Constitution has predicted increased majorities for its election. The possibility of being elected by a lesser majority than that of the members of the independent authorities, as if it were a member of the board of directors, is, in fact, affecting and altering the nature of the culture. In this respect, therefore, due to the deterioration of the position of the President of the Republic, due to the fact that, instead of being a regulator of the country, he will in future become a gambler not even of the majority, but of a minority. In view of the fact that one, elected by a qualified majority, will have an absolute majority in Parliament against him. For all these reasons, therefore, it will not be able to perform its constitutional role. So, ladies and gentlemen, both on the subject of procedure and on the substance of the matter, you are moving towards a regulation of the Constitution, which is essentially affecting the foundations of the constitution and which is particularly problematic for the credibility of the political world. That is why we call for her withdrawal as an anti-constitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u77	On the New Democracy side, will you be rival, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u78	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u79	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, until yesterday, I was simply maintaining the suspicion that the appearance of the SYRIZA in plenary has suffered a mutation, in relation to the spirit and style, the democratic and parliamentary nature, which it had observed during the discussions in the relevant parliamentary committee, where we had discussed these issues in full. In listening to my fellow Member today, I have no doubt left at all. SYRIZA came here to use this top parliamentary procedure to prey impressions within Ethiopia. I'm sorry to see that. For while I was expecting to hear from an approved professor of Constitutional Law a fundamental and substantiated objection of constitutionality, which at least should be able to stand up and set up an appropriate and worthy counterpart to Ethiopia, unfortunately I find that all we have heard were bruises, stones, horns irritated, just to have the pleasure of SYRIZA's colleagues to applaud unnecessarily and noisyly allegations. And I'm just explaining. Firstly, Mr President, you accuse the New Democracy of being involved in a process of democratic dialogue, institutionalised parliamentary confrontation, of being bold and brave to serve with proper democratic morality and even proposals from other parties. Well, that's our difference. We are unhealthy democrats, and we do not hesitate, when we see that they are genuinely involved in democratic dialogue and proposals, which we are agreed to, to adopt, as for what is to be discussed today, on the popular proposal for a law. It was not within the framework of our proposals, but we accepted it, as we were convinced of the discussions that took place in the committee. But be careful what's our difference. You are accusing here of your chosen colleague, Professor of Constitutional Law and Minister of State, who took part in the debate and contributed what he had to bring, because he is also a MP, and you do not object to the fact that this top-level parliamentary process began at the initiative of the Prime Minister and not of your parliamentary group, apart from Ethiopia, in a performance that had been based outside Parliament, on a red background and under conditions that began in 2016 and began to be discussed within the House that is the exclusive state-level competence. And today you come and blame us? You have subjugated everything to the executive. We, from the first moment on, raised the question that, even the Ministerial Council must stop meeting in Parliament, because this is a Parliament and it is not a government, as you have been transforming it for four years. And today, are you telling us about degeneration of democracy due to our own behaviour? I'm really sorry. But now, I'm going to come to what you told us about allegedly unconstitutionalism. First of all, there is a barrier to the discussion of the provision on which you are cut, namely the provision, which you say cannot have the contents that the New Democracy wants when it comes to the appointment of the Head of State, the President of the Republic. Be careful, Mr Katrugale, we could today raise objections to constitutionality and say that this provision cannot be debated and inadmissible. Because it has not been laid down as a revised provision, on your own responsibility, the provision of Article 30(1), which remains immaterial and uninvited by the patronage of the provisions which have been included in the proposal of the previous Parliament, which is still in force and which stipulates that the President of the Republic is elected by the Parliament. It's over. So, why do you come here today and argue that, supposedly, we are struggling with the President when, on the basis of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, this provision cannot be debated by your own omission? But we're not the same. Democraticly we have taken tests and used parliamentaryism to fulfil vital democratic needs of society and the state. We say that all views must be developed in Parliament, all arguments must be put forward, and of course, we do not propose that the debate be rejected, because you have not taken care - although today you are doubting us that we are not so democratic - to include it in the revised provisions. It's just a matter of that. Secondly, it is the following. You're telling us about Article 110. Of course, as I understand it, they are not fundamentally objections to this procedure, but because you mentioned it, I am obliged to speak. Listen, colleague, Mr. Catrugale. The House is a political body, it is neither a court nor a court nor a dialogue is held here on the basis of legal arguments. We do not have the obligation here to exchange views nor to vote on what is the best scientific opinion on this issue. Such discussions may have taken place in other historical now value regimes, in other times, which the state also took a position on what is the best scientific theory. There is no room for such totalitarian discussions in liberal republics. We therefore want to hear political arguments here, because Parliament and Parliament do not have the task of producing political truths, they have the task of making decisions. Of course, by making the decisions, they do not take the best possible decision, but if they cannot be done otherwise, they will make the majority decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u81	Not on the anti-constitutional objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u82	That is what you have done, Mr Colleague, for five years. For five years you have set us up and done what you wanted. It was tyrannical about what you had to do with the minority, and I had repeatedly opposed this to many of the methods that you had used for five years in this Chamber. However, we have another concept and we want to reach compromises. We want, with the arguments we put forward, to come up with interim solutions, and we are proving this today. Therefore, on the basis of paragraph 2 of Article 110, nowhere refers to directions or instructions or suggestions from the Proposed House in the Review House. Indeed, there is a decision - there is no plenary session of the Supreme Special Court - of the Supreme Special Court, 11/2003, which, for the first time, introduces a new concept of the fact that it was allegedly between the Pro-Government and the Revision House. And this judgment considers that judicial review of the procedural limits of the review which, in the particular case at hand, identifies him as being exceeded. Such a relationship cannot exist between the two Vullus, because once we accept that the Revision House is the mandate holder of the first, we put it in a lesser, lesser value and importance than the first one, which appears to have the initiative of the review project. But such a crisis cannot come about either scientifically or politically. On the other hand, Article 110(3) provides that for all matters relating to the Review, the Revision House is to decide. The Proposing House decides on two issues. Firstly, it decides on the need for the review, which - be careful - is mentioned in the past. The need for the Review is not mentioned in the future. It refers to the determination of actual events that have taken place involving a change in circumstances which require the revision of a specific provision. It is therefore the observation of social development that leads to a determination of the need and not the analogy of the future, under the terms of the suggestions and the mandate you claim. Secondly, it says that the pre-reviewing parliament, the proposed parliament in particular, defines the revised provisions, not the provisions as they will be revised, but the provisions to be revised. And nothing else! From these mere thoughts, which make them a reasonable man, who does not need to be a professor of Constitutional Law, comes without doubt at political level, such as the one we are struggling with and confronting with arguments, that at this very level there is no room to raise issues of science. Finally, I should like to say that yes, it was timeless, surprising, really unexpected, since we had dealt with the parliamentary committee so much on all these issues, so that you could be present today in this way. Personally, I regret. However, I repeat that we will not hesitate to address all your arguments. We need them. We need them. It helps us to be able to develop both the concept of democracy and the perception that we have of the public, the general interest and the good of this place in general. So thank you for what you are causing us to tell you from there and then we will come back if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u83	The President of Parliament has asked for the floor. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u84	I am using a right to personalise who has done the trick - in quotes - in the previous House. I did the trick in the previous House. It was not a trick. It was an instrument of basic constitutional right to vote on the proposals, which had been tabled for vote. When the motions for resolutions were tabled, they were not subject to 'except for Laekens', i.e. 'except for New Democracy', that the New Democracy is not entitled to vote on a proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u85	Did you believe her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u86	We had made it clear from the outset that we were interested in...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u87	Did you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u88	Listen a little. If I were prone to 'couples', I would have had much more useful and much earlier political familiarity and not so late. Watch out now. We have made it quite clear that we are very interested - almost at all costs - in preventing the election of the President of the Republic from being slapped and this provision being transformed by consensual incitement, to provoke political openness, to provoke power. It was such that we wanted to resolve this issue of the abuse of this provision, which had been done in the past, which we did not do, but we tried by this consensual process and based on what science and practice teach, to improve the constitutional wording. It turns out now that SYRIZA - I am contradicting the 'core' with this designation - by submitting this proposal with the returning votes and finally recourse to the people, has not committed a 'cost', but an unpredictableness which it is now trying to cure through unconstitutionalism. I mean, you didn't actually think so. You did not believe this, because today, instead of celebrating that even by another method the substance of the proposal, namely the non-provoking of elections because of the non-election of the President of the Republic, is being achieved, you are resorting to constitutional inventions, but they are being dismantled, as you have already heard, and the only constitutional "kousouri" - in in introductory form - that this Review will drag on to say, will be the plea of being against Mr Gerapetti, who sits at ministerial level instead of the parliamentary seats. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let this be, although in the previous debate there were ministers in the cabinet. In any case, to finish, it was no trick. It was the only consensual, constitutional, democratic, parliamentary, patriotic way out, so that the country would not be released into elections on the pretext of electing the President of the Republic. As to whether or not we believed it and whether we are entitled to it, I will read only two points of view of distinguished constitutionalists. ‘The revised provisions must be laid down in the Parliament's Revision Resolution. This definition of the provisions under review commits the next House, which may not add any new provisions. The second Chamber, the Revision Chamber, may, however, on the one hand, not revise any of the provisions, which are included in the list of the motion of the previous Parliament and, on the other hand, give the Review content new and different from that decided by the House. Who says that? Dimitris Tsatsos says in Constitutional Law, page 218-219. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We continue with the following: ‘In order to determine the revised provisions as set out above, it is limited and the Parliament's powers in this regard are exhausted’. He means the nominated parliament. 'The definition of the content of the new regulation does not fall within the jurisdiction of the latter. It will take place during the second stage of the review procedure by the next Parliament, but it is not bound by its original decision to carry out the revision of the Parliament, including any suggestions on the future content of the provisions under review.’ That's what Archbishop Menesis says. Can you imagine that Dimitris Tsatsos and Aristo-Blue Menesis had unconstitutional views? To finish and not to bother you any more, misusing my right as President, I would like to say to you that we have gone with very interesting views both in the previous and in this House. But it's not possible now to get psychologically downwards if we meant it if we thought it. But if you even want psychological downwards to do, we deeply believe in government stability. We firmly believe that constitutional provisions of such importance and such gravity should not be worked out for other purposes. We firmly believed that you meant that you did not want to hold elections, because of not electing President of the Republic, as a practice of repentance of the elections that you had caused in 2015 and now we see that we were wrong about your intentions and not you. The thing has to go ahead. The objection of anti-constitutionalism will be raised in judgment, but I assure you, not on personal grounds but on political grounds, that it was not a trick. It was a fundamental act of protection of the constitution and democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I shall now give the floor to the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u90	I would like the floor, as an adversary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u91	Wait a minute. For what? Parliamentary representatives will speak. I apply the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Stylianides is, I think, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u92	After Mr. Javarras spoke. What did he talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u93	Yeah. Mr. Javarras spoke as rivals. It's another thing. Parliamentary representatives are now speaking. Please read Article 100. Parliamentary representatives are now speaking. You will speak to all the parliamentary representatives. He is the objector, the adversary, and the Rules of Procedure say that they are also the Heads of the Parties or the Parliamentary Representatives. I shall give the floor to the parliamentary representatives. Everybody will speak in turn, Mr. Stylianides, then Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u94	Mr Stylianides as Parliamentary Representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Stylianides, Mr. Janakopoulos, is a parliamentary representative. Here, Mr. Stylianides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, the President of Parliament has already shown, with a well-established bibliography, that the rapporteurs of the Civilian Vice-Presidents know how to handle and better interpret the spirit and the letter of the constitutional text. I will add to the text by Aristuboulos Mansis and Dimitris Tsatsos a similar view of Professor Anthopoulos, Professor Chryssogonos, Professor Vel, Professor Vlachopoulou and Mr Botopoulos and many others. I do not now want to bore you with bibliographic references, I can show you the pages of their writings, to understand how unfair you are in the grounds for objectioning unconstitutionality, at least invoking it, in terms of scientific and legal terms. However, I would also like to give some answers to questions raised in the Chamber. The fact that Mr Gerapetritis as a competent Minister is due to the fact that the opposition in the work of the Revision Committee has asked that there be a representative of the government. We, as the Bureau, responded immediately. And he was right to ask. I do not understand this contradiction now. They ask the committee to do so and they do not accept it in plenary. Let them end up what they think is right. Secondly, as far as the reasons for the objection to unconstitutionalism are concerned - I think - were answered immediately, automatically, on the substance and catalysts. But here, Mr. Katrugalos told us something else. He told us what to propose. In other words, it has tried to dictate to the present majority which emerged after a vast majority in the people what to suggest in the revised provision for the President of the Republic. Mr President, I have never met this before - at least as many years as I have seen the constitutional law and political life of the country - that minority voting should indicate to the majority and indeed, after elections what to propose. You spoke of a contradiction. On the substance, in the debate that took place in the committee, and here we will explain why we support this position. But don't you talk about contradiction. You caused a referendum in 2015, the view you supported was passed, then you turned your back on the majority, which you created and returned, to apply the exact opposite. And you're talking about contradictions? Are you talking about contradictions that you wrote the people in your old shoes? You do the same in the Constitution. The re-examined provisions were proposed in the Proposed House. Elections broke out. The people, when voting, knew what each of us said about the revised provisions, did not hide it and gave us a vast majority. We will apply the mandate given to us by the people and no dictation from your side!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Stylianides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u98	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u99	Wait a minute, Mr. Janakopoulos. In turn. Before, you gave me the impression that you want Mr. Loverdos to lead. Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me start with a comment in relation to the position of the Honorable President of the House earlier. Let me say that I understand the need, which he felt, for his party to apologise for the vagina which they planned and implemented during the proposed parliament, that is to say, that the New Democracy should vote on an article that it did not agree to create the conditions for the completion of the vagina in the Review House, since he was winning the elections. And it is obvious that this was an apology, from the mere fact that five times during a five-minute speech he said: 'I didn't do anything about it'. Secondly, which concerns another point, that this is not a psycho-emotional decay, but a point, which concerns the elementary political credibility which the New Democracy should have as a governance party and which is clearly lost in full. Secondly, for the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetititi, who of course has a special sensitivity to the separation of functions, I should like to say that, not only should he not object to the objection of unconstitutionality and the admissibility, but much more so, he does not have the right to take the floor to a debate on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of this House. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to order that what the Minister has said be deleted from the Minutes. Now, as far as the substance of the matter is concerned, that is to say constitutionality or non-constitutionality. So I say to you that Article 110 of the Constitution very clearly defines the terms, scope and conditions of the revision process. The first part, therefore, of the objection to anti-constitutionalism, which we have tabled, concerns precisely the violation of the same procedure and the procedural conditions laid down in Article 110 of the Constitution regarding the revision of the Constitution. In other words, if you note that there is a need to revise a number of issues, this need must also have a special reasoning, which ipso facto forms the direction in which the revision of the Constitution should be initiated. On the one hand the Proposing House gives a direction to the Revision House, this direction the Revision House must keep it. And what does HED Decision 11/2003 say? It says that the reason why the Review House was not bound by the nominee in this case, which the Supreme Special Court considered was because this direction was not indicated in the decision of the House, but was simply indicated in the committee's decision. On the contrary, therefore, it appears that if the direction were indicated in Parliament's decision, that would mean that the Revision House would be bound. It is clear, therefore, that the decision of the Supreme Special Court, which neither the late Tsatsos nor the late Manesis, could have known when interpreting Article 110 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy should be aware that the theory has now come to the conclusion that the House is binding on the Revision House, not only on the articles that have to be reviewed, but also on the direction and we can quote them in this respect. Kontiadis, Parara, Spyropoulos, Giannakopoulou and other many, who have already been in 1993 and especially since 2003 and the relevant decision of the AED have transformed this view into a completely held in theory. Let me conclude by saying that there is another essential reason for the unconstitutionality of the provision brought here by the New Democracy, which cannot be answered on the grounds that there are no anti-constitutional provisions in the Constitution, because there is still no provision in the Constitution, Mr President. Therefore, since no provision has been made in the Constitution, there can be reasons why we can invoke its unconstitutionality. And what are these reasons? That, in fact, it distorts the very essence of the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic and runs counter to the non-revisionable provisions of the Constitution. It will also be a question of the need to interpret this provision, since it becomes constitutional, and that is where it will indeed be right for anyone who claims the basic principle of constitutional law that there are no anti-constitutional provisions in the Constitution. To conclude, Mr President, let me say this. The rapporteur of the New Democracy has told us that Parliament is not even entitled to discuss the interpretation of legal rules. I ask: what is the debate on anti-constitutional objections? Does this not concern interpretations of legal rules, and does not this House come to the fore to decide, in alpha or beta, the correct interpretation of a legal rule? Obviously, he does. So I think it was problematic that a debate on the Constitution was about finding the truth. It concerns finding the correct legal interpretation on the basis of a decision by the House, which is binding on the House, not on the courts, which can be followed by this interpretation. So, in closing, on the basis of all this, we think that the New Democracy should do its own favor, do the favor in the Constitution, not degenerate it further, not degenerate even further a top legal text, which defines the terms of the political game and of the political conflict, with the sole aim of suffocating all state and democratic institutions, which seems to be the core of its policy over the last few years. From the last CECE to the President of the Republic, the New Democracy attempts to suffocate the state, its institutions and structures. This is a real threat to democracy, but also to the Constitution itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos. Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to begin by confirming what Mr Stylianidis said and reminding my colleague and friend Mr Katrugalos, the debate we had in the Revision Committee, when we asked that he be a representative of the government, so that we could reach agreement on certain details. In fact, we had the pleasure of being a colleague of ours, Mr Gerapetti. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u103	Sure. But for the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u104	I told my place. Mr President, we have asked for this, reminding that the governments in the Constitution's Review have always had a presence. If this presence was a multitude, or if it was more elegant, it was about who the minister responsible was, who was here, if he talked a lot, if he talked more discreetly. So, that's bleedy. Does he have the right to take the floor? It has the right to take the floor, because, as we said at the Conference of Presidents, we follow, in addition to the specific issues we have dealt with in our own decisions, the Rules of Procedure of the House as regards the normal legislative work. This problem is broken and we should not waste time on it. I find the objection that SYRIZA put forward and the debate, which is being held, very wisely, is also an opportunity for science to process it. So what's he upholding? What does Mr. Katrugalos claim? That the proposal put forward by 50 Members in law for the revision of Article 32(4) infringes Article 110. This is the main reasoning of the objection. It is very useful - I say again and I welcome it for the third time - that objection. But is it, in fact, correct? I return to our debate yesterday, Mr Katrugale, on the directions and refer to a very serious and penetrating debate in plenary and also to the committee of the Parliament proposed. Most people today, the fewer then, say that there is a commitment from the Revision House from the proposing to two issues: order, that is, article and paragraph. No one can get over that. If we had a proposal for revision here, which relates to an article or paragraph that the previous House had not proposed, it would have sent out your argument completely and the House would have to reject this unconstitutionality. I told you yesterday when we were discussing Articles 16(2) and 16(5). I was telling you that it is hypocrisy to speak for religious freedom and not to propose the revision of Article 16(2), which is the basis of a mistrial case law. He told your colleague that you did not include it in your proposals, because we were afraid we would take you to Article 16(5) for non-profit universities. I've been telling you there's no way. That would be grossly unconstitutional and would be removed by any parliament. You are now coming here to make an overrun of the theory and to say no, the previous parliament commits this Review and in terms of directions. The counter-projects are shocking at the expense of this view. The first, ladies and gentlemen, is about democracy, about democratic legitimacy. Can we say that a proposed parliament, which has proposed revision of the Constitution in the last few months of its last part-session, namely when democratic legitimacy was beginning to decrease, as was seen by the next elections, to commit to the next Parliament? The Constitution stipulates, Mr President, that the Constitution is being revised by the Revision House at its first session, with democratic legitimacy in the face of the expression of popular sovereignty. Is it possible to say that a House that is being awarded commits itself to the next, after the will of popular sovereignty has been mediated, at the first meeting of the next period, namely the warmest democratic legitimacy of its session? No, it would be a democratic challenge to do that and we won't. The second argument is that the colleagues are invoking two important decisions of the Supreme Special Court and of the Council of State. What did they judge? They judged the admissibility of a argument and rejected it on substance. Mr President - you are also a judge - I do not know whether there was a certainty that the argument on the substance would have been accepted on the issues of admissibility. Therefore, we do not have an integrated case-law on this issue, which is why we must absolutely invoke it, but we must also despise and retain it. Mr Janakopoulos accepted at the end - and I am sure that this is a good impression - that the theory is not universal, it is not unanimous, but there is an exception, but all the rest of us have agreed for decades that we cannot identify anti-constitutional provisions in the Constitution. The provisions of the Constitution are distinguished from those which are revised and those which are not revised. Nothing else. All the rest from the point of view of formal power is equal. If we accept that a judge may, after the Revision of the Constitution, judge an anti-constitutional constitutional provision, be a disaster, because he would introduce discrimination that would violate the separation of powers, the autonomy of the Parliament and ours, the Greek, as was formed for two centuries, a constitutional system. It is wrong to support this, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We'll find it in front of us. We'd find it in front of us if this House decided otherwise. Mr President, because I had the experience of the previous House, I would like to make two points. You cannot invoke Mr. Venizelos because you were present, when he developed his opinion on the opposite of what you say and you are also aware of the text, published on the website of Constitutional Law theory. He is the man, who best explained why you are not right, in a spirit of collegial discussion and understanding of arguments. Where we disagree, we disagree. And where we don't disagree, we don't disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u105	He didn't question what he's writing. He didn't disprove what I read.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u106	But what are you doing today? I have the testimony of the previous Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and I am presenting it. But SYRIZA said about Article 32 - a majority at that time - but the New Democracy said - that's true, it's not a lie - and other things we were talking about. When the vote was being prepared, Mr President, we were surprised at the trick of the New Democracy to say 'yes' to Article 32(4) to vote on SYRIZA's proposal. And I told all of SYRIZA's colleagues then that: do not all vote together because you are victims. What choice? To vote together with the New Democracy, to get your proposal a hundred and eighty votes and revise the Constitution, the next ones with a hundred and fifty one votes. Vote one of you, just like we did. Don't give the next majority, which doesn't seem to be yours, the luxury of reviewing the Constitution as it fits and as she likes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u107	‘Clos’ in ‘Clos’?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u108	And instead of doing so, they slipped into the trap, SYRIZA's voters voted for it and now they come to say, through the objection of constitutionality, that things have to go differently. No, Mr President, I am a witness to this debate and that is how it happened, as I tell you. And there is a very serious mistake about parliamentarians and politicians coming today to pay for it themselves, but all of us too. I'll hang up with this. Why all of us? Because the New Democracy colleagues are attempting to change the 32 paragraph 4 in a way which democratically denouncing the President of the Republic. When does he do that? When will they vote to be elected by a hundred and fifty one votes? Oh, no. In this proposal, we will oppose the fact that there are more democratic proposals for a President or for a President, who must definitely become a single-person institution, with great democratic legitimacy. But they continue their proposal and say that two candidates are elected by the majority, which invoke the prerogative - that is to say - a provision. They are right to invoke it, but today's provision requires elections before, in order to reach the relevant majority. It is wrong to propose it now, which we will not have elections between the votes as a majority vote of the President of the Republic. They do something comic, and I want to say that. They say, Mr President, that the elder is elected on equal terms. But what if they're women, the two equals? Or one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u109	The elder.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u110	The elder, the elder's wife? The priest's wife? These are comics, Mr President. Coming up a little and making a decent proposal for the Revision of the Constitution, because that's not how it goes. However, my last sentence is as follows: the objection must be rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Giokas, now speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u112	In our view, Mr President, the objection of anti-constitutionalism is admissible and correct. However, the issue is a political one and it is not a matter of constitutional order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u113	Excuse me, Mr. Gioka, for interrupting, if you'll excuse me, to announce the schools because they have to leave. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of Greeks, twenty students and students and a school attendant from the 2nd Primary School of Hymittos. Also, our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they were toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-six students and three teachers, from the 5th High Thevas. The House welcomes both schools. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Keep going, Mr. Gioka, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u114	I repeat that this is a political issue and not a question of constitutional order. What is the political issue? That in the previous parliament, in the proposed parliament, you have all voted together because it is your common position to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the early dissolution of the House. We did not vote for this and you voted for it because, above all, you are setting the objective of government stability. The New Democracy has always supported this position, SYRIZA has become a late fan of government stability, while in 2014 it had exploited - and well done, we say - the presidential election in order to have a government change. So you voted together on this particular article. That is why this article brought together more than a hundred eighty Members and today, it can be revised by a simple majority of fifty-one. From now on, everyone's dead ends. The New Democracy resorts to a shape, abandons its former position of direct election - which was, in fact, its previous position - from the people and resorts to a shape unspeakable, because this shape that says a relative majority, and in the event of a equalisation, the elder or a draw, as originally said, is a shape unspeakable - perhaps there is in Ecclesiastes law - while SYRIZA adopts the former position of the New Democracy for direct election by the people. If something harms the form of the constitution, Mr Katrugale, as President-in-Office of the Council, it is your proposal above all, which, in essence, by direct election by the people, strengthens a single-faced body, even with the powers which it has today, apart from which it would open up the debate on strengthening competences. This proposal for a direct election by the people was rejected by the previous parliament. Why was she rejected? Because Rule 30 was rejected and rejected by SYRIZA Members. Here we were, we lived, we remembered and who criticized the government's proposal and voted against it. That is why Article 30 did not go through which he said that the President of the Republic was elected or by the House - and you added - or by the electorate. This proposal was rejected by SYRIZA Members. We did not vote for it, and it was correctly rejected. That is why it is not in the revised articles today. So the unconstitutional, on the basis of your own logic, is the proposal of the New Democracy, but the unconstitutional is your proposal, and the direct election by the people has been rejected. So, here, Mr President, political games are being played. That's it. And we are talking about the authority of the President of the Republic and goes on to say. You are aware of our position on the institution very well. Not for the face, for the institution of the President of the Republic. But mercy here on hypocrisy! Mr. Katrugalos in 2014 said that God himself would not vote for it. And he was right. Then the prestige of the institution was guarding it and now you're degrading it? So this is where political games are playing with a constitutional cover. There is a political opportunism on the part of the New Democracy in this position, which it adopts. There is political opportunism on the part of SYRIZA. I don't know if political opportunism is unconstitutional. I guess it's allowed by this constitution, not to say it's imperative. That is why we are not taking part in the vote on this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. I would ask the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Heta to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. The masks have fallen today, Mr President. I have been involved in this process of constitutional revision for about two months, since it started, in a climate of courtesy, with excellent behaviour. Today all this went for a walk, of course, because this is the real face of bipartisanism. You use the Constitution, gentlemen of SYRIZA and of the New Democracy, for your own micropolitical games. You say you respect the Constitution, but at the same time, you play micro-political games, micro-group games on the Constitution. Mr President of SYRIZA, Mr Katrugale, you are leaving New Democracy for fuckingba - I will just say it like this - for 2014, because then he did say other things about the President of the Republic, and today he comes with other brains and other proposals. You say this, Mr Katrugale and Mr Syriza, who is voted for the release, if you like, of the disconnection of the dismantling of the parliament, on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic, while you have used it to become a government on the one time that you will rule in that country. So now you've changed it. It's your government. You guys don't do shits? Who are you telling? The Greek people hear you. You're talking, SYRIZA, New Democracy, the Change Movement and the PASOK, and you say you respect the Constitution. What Constitution exactly do you respect? Did you respect the Constitution and the Greek people when you voted for the Prespecies Agreement without asking the Greek people? Did you respect the Constitution when 'no', Mr Katrugale, did you do it 'yes'? Whose people have you respected and what Constitution? Did you respect any constitution when you signed the memorandum, despite the negative view of the Greek people and when you stubbornly refuse to listen to the Greek people? More Constitution do you respect? What hypocrisy are we talking about here, which is too much? You have promised the future of our children, the rule of our country for the last forty-five years, and you have been talking about respect for the Constitution and the institutions. You play with the words of the Constitution and show legal knowledge in the committee and within the Greek Parliament who is the best legal person and you do not talk about the substance. Unfortunately, the President of the Republic has always been - and unfortunately still today - toys on the back of the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, must have competence. If he doesn't have responsibilities and we only have him to cut ribbons and inaugurate, there's no reason to exist. He must have responsibilities, and we must all respect him. The Greek people must vote for the President of the Republic and, as we say in our proposal, there must be the agreement of at least three parliamentary groups. If, however, you were here, in your place, in the Greek Parliament, in these benches and we all did our work properly, there would be no risk of a relative majority or not. That's the problem. But you are systematically absent from your work. I invoke the political seriousness of all. I conclude by saying: The President of the Republic, to remind all of you, is the Head of State. The President of the Republic shall be the Chief of the Armed Forces. The President of the Republic shall be the international representation of the country. The President of the Republic shall be the regulator of the country. It's forbidden, and no one can play with him and make him his underhand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u117	Mrs Antonopoulou, on behalf of Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. My position will not be political, because the Constitution, above all, is a regulatory text, regardless of whether it has been worked out to serve micro-party and political objectives, whatever. I am therefore not going to extend to what was preceded. In my personal view, there is no question of unconstitutionality here. It raises the question of whether the content of this revised provision will be in conflict with a basic principle, which is the form of the constitution. So the right thing to do here by SYRIZA is whether the procedural and substantive limits of the Review are violated, not whether a provision is unconstitutional. Chachos himself has said that there are no anti-constitutional provisions in the Constitution.It can simply be an exception in relation to a basic principle of the Constitution. Again here raises the question of whether this Review House is bound by the proposed direction and content. That is why there has been a detailed discussion in committee. There's no crystallized theory. To invoke various lawyers, either on the one hand or on the other, does not mean that there is a crystalline theory and that is because the very content of the Constitution in the specific provisions of Article 110 is somewhat blurred. So the theory right now can't be clear. I have expressed the view to the committee that there is no commitment from this House from the previous House, and that because elections have been held, the will of the people has changed, this House has a different legitimacy. Therefore, there is no content and direction commitment. There is no doubt about the provisions that will be revised. So, as far as the procedural limits of the review are concerned, this is a matter of how we interpret the commitment from the previous House or not. However, the essential limits of the Review are violated by the New Democracy's proposal for a majority in favour of the election of the President of the Republic. The majority in this House is certainly opposed to a basic principle, which is the form of the culture, the presiding parliamentary democracy. By deploring the larger, absolute majority, we are certainly undermining the very role of the President of the Republic, who is the regulator and guarantor of the constitution and the foundation of the culture is popular sovereignty. If we want, then, to prevent the President of the Republic from being elected by the early dissolution of the House and to disconnect the whole issue from the dissolution of the House, then we can refer the matter to popular sovereignty. On this point, I will be more specifically present in my speech on this particular proposal, which we have made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Adamopoulou. The former President of Parliament has asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u120	I would not have made use of the right to contribute to the debate if I did not have an issue, in my opinion, which we should all consider, depending on the outcome of this debate. On the substance and on the different views and constitutionalists and political forces, I have been covered by previous speakers and by the proposers, Mr Katrugalos and Mr Janakopoulos. It is clear that before and after the decision of the Supreme Special Court, the relevant literature from the most recent constitutionalists in our country, which we all respect, also had the diversity of the time in relation to what has been said. These different approaches have therefore been tabled. I would also like to say to you that at the end of the procedure of the proposed Parliament, if we look at the Minutes, I, too, said that since elections will be held, it is clear that this will affect the next House in the debate that will take place, on the basis of the fact that the proposals, which had come in the course of the proposed Parliament, with openness to the question of direction, in relation to the articles and proposals tabled by the majority at the time, were also put forward. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be honest and realistic. This is the first time that an issue has been raised on which - I will use an inappropriate expression here - the House will think about it and about the Constitution. For this is the first time that, between the two, i.e. the nomination and the Review House, there is a different correlation of views and political forces. There is therefore an issue which is not at all theoretical at all, as it was before in the debate on constitutionalists. That is why I wanted to contribute to the debate, without going into any particular constitutional terms and without charging the climate with tricks, who thought, what he did, etc. The decision to be taken - if a decision is taken - will be more than the limit of the commitment in question. Watch out, what I'm saying. So we had closed down in the House, that there is, of course, one direction, which in this respect binds the next House. Because we had elections. If we go to the view that it does not commit at all, that is to say that the Proposing Parliament only defines and commits, according to the number of articles, which go into the debate, then you realise that any future discussion procedure for the Constitution will be literally in the air. And they will literally be in the air because, obviously, the political forces, in the light of the next vote - whenever they are to be held, either now or at the last part-session of this House - will know that there will be an election procedure in the meantime, they will be held on the same number and substance of the articles they propose, because the case-law of this House will be 'affected' that the next majority that may be the same - so there will be no problem - but it may be a different one, simply starting from the fact that the article on the number of such articles will be changed, will be able to do the opposite. That is why, when the procedure began on Monday - the President, Mr Stylianides, will remember - and I have put it - the point that the limits of the commitment are, on the one hand, these articles and, on the other hand, there is no other and, on the other, obviously the next Parliament, because the popular vote is invaded, can refuse to vote on these articles. That can be it. And there, the popular vote is absolutely decisive. In other words, a series of articles that had been proposed in connection with the previous association, the present one can say 'I do not vote'. This, however, is the limit of commitment and non-commitment. To go against interpretation and opposite analysis and in a radically opposite direction to the articles, which a political majority last time proposed - I repeat - creates a case-law which, obviously, will bring about any further debate on constitutional revision, not regularism - among us we are talking - not tricks, not exits. I respect what Mr. Loverd said. What he said today, he said it in the last conversation at the time. And for their part - beware now - there had only been one left through the Change Movement, so that two votes would take two, three votes to pass with a hundred and fifty one or a hundred three votes the article on neutral religion, having a relative commitment to behave so that it is not a white cheque to the next to do what they want. They did, however, then, in their attitude - how much more so if it were a larger party, that is, the next military opposition - I risk that there will not even be the articles that were being discussed in the Revision House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u121	Because your people weren't voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u122	Excuse me, Mr. Loverdo. And there was a rich conversation in the media at the time: "SYRIZA hit it," "Tsipras hit it." Not at all. There has been an open political debate on the substance. The proposals have been tabled. There has been convergence on the crucial issue, namely the fact that the House is not falling apart for the election of the President of the Republic. From there on, in SYRIZA's proposal there was this about six votes, which was obvious - and it was analysed by our rapporteurs at the time - that it was completely deterrent, that is, every month when the votes were to take place, to go to election by the people. In other words, we are not left by the other article of the Constitution, which has remained unmovable. There was consistency, internal logic and a political joint speech and a proposal. I would like to point out, therefore, that I am closing with this and I am sorry, because I have passed away - that we all think very well about the next review process. Could be after a few years. However, today's precedent can be disastrous for the political debate and for the maturation of proposals then and for political tactics, to which the parties may actually engage, because they will not want their own proposals to be intact and will be directed in a completely different direction. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure has been completed on the objection of unconstitutionality put forward by the SYRIZA. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, please rise. [[Receiving the proposal]] Apparently, the fewer were raised. The number of Members required and provided for by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure has not been increased. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the substance of the provisions. The general rapporteur for the majority, Mr Constantine Javarra, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will discuss three themes united, from which I choose to refer, because time is not enough for full growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Javarra, I'm sorry, because I've failed. Please open the list of speakers. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u126	I shall therefore refer to the new technique for the election of the President, Article 68(2), and the so-called 'immediate-democratic forms of expression of the people' proposed by the SYRIZA. I think that the House has matured to develop first - first of all the arguments on the matter of the hot, the controversial issue - of the emergence of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Javarra, I'm sorry. I'm going to interrupt you again, because technical problems today come out behind each other. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the electronic system does not work, I would ask the competent services in this House to come in and register the Members who want to speak with a statement in a state that will be observed. Then it's gonna happen...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u128	Apologies, shall we?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u129	The system's broken, Mrs. Canelley. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u130	Let's send the parties a list.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u131	That's what you're right about. I would ask colleagues to sit down and take the seats of the House, because you cannot follow the rapporteurs as well. The provisional list shall be cancelled. The Members of this House will therefore be able to take their seats to the third rapporteur, so that Members can register in peace. But there will also be a tolerance to register, if others come, because there is a problem with the system. Mr. Javarra, I apologise and please start your speech from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic, in accordance with Article 32(1) of the Constitution, is the regulator of the constitution. Indeed, according to the government plan submitted in 1975 during the review at the time, the President of the Republic was also a guarantor of the harmonious functioning of the powers of the State. This institutional image of the President of the Republic has come to light and decreased during the 1986 Review, when all the powers of the President of the Republic have been abolished, except for those relating to his institutional role as Head of State, as a symbolic leader of the Armed Forces, as a representative of the country abroad for the signing of international conventions and a number of such responsibilities, of course, including those referred to in Articles 37 and 38, namely the assignment of a government to the Chief of the Party, which has an absolute majority of seats in Parliament, then an exploratory mandate for the formation of a government and further, if no government is reached, and his participation and his contribution to the Council of Political Heads of State to find a solution and, ultimately, the appointment of a temporary or universal government to hold the elections. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It can be concluded that the role of the President of the Republic is now symbolic. It is under the Regulator's Constitution, but it does not have regulatory powers. But it is still a state institution which, in fact, its personal prestige, its supra-party status and, above all, its abstention in party disputes and political conflicts, makes its role a valuable element in the functioning of the democratic culture. That is why the effort being made in the two committees, the rapporteur and the Revision which has been preceded, but also during the discussions in the Proposing House, was aimed at how we will find a new way, a technique, that is to say, without being the President of the Republic any longer being the citizens and the House being captive of the failure of Parliament to elect a President of the Republic. How, then, will we be able to respond to the smooth functioning of the society, to the continuation of the term of the House if the House cannot, will not be able to elect a President of the Republic? That is why SYRIZA and all the other forces together with us have already decided that Parliament's dissolution will no longer be possible in the future for the reason of not being elected President of the Republic. From now on, however, the framework for the search for a new technical designation of the President of the Republic must be sought in the context laid down in Article 30(1)(2), which stipulates that the President of the Republic shall be elected by the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Javarra, I'm sorry. Your time will be kept. Since this problem has been solved with the electronic records, you will be written by those who want to be registered and I have already asked Mrs Perifanou, although it is a painful task for the partners of the Chamber, after they have been written, to make a fundamental rotation so that there are no, for example, a party of fifteen Members. It's not gonna be like we went five, three, one, one, but there's going to be a rotation. We have time, because until the rapporteurs and the special rapporteurs talk, we want about two hours. So don't worry. No one will be wronged. It's just that we can help make a good job. Keep going, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, inevitably and without any divergence, we have to look for a new way of showing the President of the Republic on the basis of Article 30(1), which stipulates that the President of the Republic is elected by Parliament. This provision has not been proposed to the revised provisions and after it has not been revised, it shall apply. And since it is true, it commits all of us to looking for a way of highlighting the President of the Republic, within the limits of Parliament's functioning and from the House. There is no possibility for any other solution. However, we must also see what the solutions are available. One solution is the one which considers that, in order for the President of the Republic to be elected, the consensus margins between the parties represented and represented in this House should be exhausted. This possibility arises from the requirement of the constitutional legislature that there should be a first vote by a majority of two hundred seats, a second vote after five days with the same majority and a third voting by a majority of eighty seats. From there on, there was the prediction that, if this majority is not achieved, elections are called on and after the new parliament has emerged, the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic is repeated. And there, after the same votes have been repeated, the President of the Republic is finally elected by a majority of fifty-one Members. The question raised, ladies and gentlemen, to those who speak of unconstitutionalism is: How can you not accept the election of the President of the Republic by an absolute majority when the existing system was the final conclusion of the arrangements provided for in the Constitution? So it's not unprecedented or unprecedented. It is not the foundation of democracy, nor the constitutional organization and functioning of the state under the 1975 Constitution. Just noise is being created and this noise is likely to have communication targets. He's about to impress, and I'm sorry about that. I think we need to look at all possible ways. So the first one is him. The second way is to have a direct election by the people, what SYRIZA ultimately proposes after the failure of the seventh vote. But there is one issue here, ladies and gentlemen. How can we use this way of electing the President, who is involved in a situation that we have to avoid, if we want to say that all the margins of consensus need to be exhausted for the choice of the President of the Republic. How is it possible, in other words, once we are talking about consensus, when we talk about partnerships towards the election of the President of the Republic, to consider it as a solution to the start of an electoral dispute, that is to say, to involve the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic in political conflicts, to party disputes, which are of course and then to function and to make election in Greece. So it is not true that this intention that says that the people can only decide if the House fails to elect a President of the Republic. Second way is the proposal that Professor Menesis has left us. So Menesis told us that we should broaden the basis of those who have the right to participate in the process of selecting the President of the Republic and, apart from being the mayors of the country. But there is one issue here. Firstly, this does not solve the issue. Secondly, how can the representatives of the people, on the one hand, be involved in such a process, and on the other hand, the representatives of local government, on an issue that does not fall within the competence of local government, on the other. Finally, the most realistic - I repeat and insist on this - is the solution proposed by the New Democracy, regardless of what has been said during the previous phase of the statement of objections from the SYRIZA on the unconstitutionality of the operations. So what matters is to see: A President-in-Office of the Republic who has very specific responsibilities that are no longer of a normative nature after the 1986 Review, why should he not be elected by a majority when in Parliament the democratic principle is expressed by a majority? In Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, you all know that - not everyone is taking the best possible decisions, there is no presumption, no institutional or constitutional guarantee, that Parliament must be led to the most correct or true decisions, but the decisions are the result of the vote, in which the majority opinion is finally preferred. Why is this not a democratic way? Apart from that, something else is happening. And with today's system there we will end up. So we have to have this whole voting cycle, after six or seven successive to go to a regime that is uncertain whether to give us the President of the Republic? What right, gentlemen, in this case, will we say that until then, until this uncertain 'then' elected President of the Republic, will the term of office of the President of the Republic continue to apply? Isn't that a coup? Does this not deprive the President of the democratic legitimacy, who is now acting as a state-run state institution? I find the criticism you are making completely unfair, because at this stage I believe that the country can come to an agreement and unite. After all, the fact that the New Democracy proposal offers three opportunities - I repeat three chances - of voting, the first with two hundred, the second with two hundred, the third with a hundred and eighty, in order to develop all consensus and to form all the consensus so that the most appropriate person can be designated and only on that basis means that all parties with a sense of mission and constitutional role will be exhausted. For example - and it is a historical example - it is an example of this - it is the behaviour of the former Prime Minister and now Chief of Staff, Mr Tsipras, who, after the elections, blackmailed by not agreeing to the candidacy proposed by the New Democracy, while he would have the right to elect a President of the Republic with an absolute majority of fifty seats, that is, he could indicate and place a person of the left-hand space, heroic, of those who have been symbolized - and there are too many in this area - he did not do so, but he preferred another person from the wider liberal space of the centre, which, for the way he has dealt with all these years, for the establishment of spiritual and scientific, but also for the mildness of her character, had indeed gathered and presented a super-party identity. The same will be done, ladies and gentlemen, in all cases when the Presidents of the Republic are elected here and in future after the vote on the New Democracy proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u135	So, Paulopoulos, you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u136	Keep going, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, you will allow me to refer to a New Democracy initiative for a review of Article 68(2). [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, could I have more time? I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u138	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the democratic sensitivity of the majority seems here. While it is a majority and could continue the same regime, the incomparable status of Article 68(2), with this logic the New Democracy of democratic sensitivity comes and gives the right to the opposition with a request of only ten Members and with a vote of 2/5 Members, with a hundred and twenty seats, to set up a House of Inquiry of Things. This is something that, until now, was unthinkable. Because since 2007, I have been a Member of Parliament in most of the committees so far, all of them have been set up on request and by a majority vote. Now this particular provision is changing and returning to the level of parliamentary control, that is, where it started, from the beginning of the history of parliamentaryism, from England, and from the Baimar constitution, where it is said that it was Max Webber, who proposed that the committee of inquiry be set up as a means of carrying out parliamentary work. And I come to a third point, and I shall end, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must accept and agree that in modern democracy the core of consultation on the good of the people is the representative organisation of the legislative bodies. The representative nature of democracy is undeniable. Indeed, at times this system may have been eroded and condemned. I said in my initial speech that, in fact, during the crisis, the dialogue, which in Germany had begun between Karl Schmitt and Hans Kelssen, where Schmitt blamed parliament for the same loss of legitimacy, because he found the so-called 'parliamentary representative betrayal'. That is what Mr Oxford, Mr Colin Crowds, has done today - what we were talking about yesterday with Mr Bordens - with his position on the anti-democratic treaty. It says, therefore, that liberal democracy is now degenerated, that we must move on to direct-democratic forms of representation of the people and that, through civil society, there are already anti-democratic bodies which claim, on the one hand, or for other purposes, to speak, even at legislative or referendum level. Irrespective of how many referendums we will adopt, one is a given, and this has best said a political philosopher that is closer to your ideas. It is Sandal Moff, who is a partner of Ernesto Laklau, who has, of course, shaped the political example in which the leader of the Officership has now become a champion. It says there is, therefore, that, in democracy, there are two traditions together, liberalism with human and individual rights and the representative system. These two have become one, of course, all the discussions that are taking place in Parliament are representatives' debates, but at this level of representation the whole society is turning into a symbolic revolvement and the people are involved. Because through this representation process the principle of self-determination applies to citizens, because they have the potential through their representatives to offer themselves to apply the rules and laws which he is voting on, through this representation relationship. This is the principle of self-determination, that is the principle of political freedom, and that is the principle of autonomy, which dominates and defines the functioning of the representative parliamentary system. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must be honest here. We have no room for other forms of direct democratic representation. The Constitution in Article 44 has covered all cases. What we need is for us all to be better ambassadors to the ideals of democracy and the representative system, for us to participate in the dialogue that is taking place and have given the Greek people the assurance that through the functioning of its representatives he is involved in the formation of the social, political and constitutional order of this place. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u140	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty students and students, and an educational attendant from the 74th Municipal School of Athens. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Georgios Karugalos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. This section brings together the constitutional material which refers to the organisational part of the culture, to the House, to the Government, to the President of the Republic, and in my opinion demonstrates in the best way why the SYRIZA review proposal and coherent was and has had a specific top substance, unlike criticism that I have heard from many aspects of the Chamber, especially from the rapporteur of the Change Movement Mr Loverdos. And it is fortunate that it follows the debate that preceded the debate on rights. What for? What did I say yesterday was the central idea of our proposal? The deepening of democracy and rights and the stirring up of neoliberalism, which is the main risk to both democracy and rights, in our time. Just like the proposals we have made and the deepening of individual freedoms - see Article 5(2) on the prohibition of discrimination - as we did with the addition of guarantees and the consolidation of the regulatory content of the social rights regulations to deal with the attack on neoliberalism in this area, so we are coming today with our proposals on the new architecture of the culture to address the consequences of this neoliberalism as a political phenomenon now in the credibility and effectiveness of representative democracy. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of talk of non-liberal democracies, of a discount in some countries of the democratic representative principle. And this criticism is based. It does not, however, recognise the fact that the main cause of this dilemma of many democracies, for the appearance of extreme right-wing populism, is the domination of anti-democratic liberalism. This, Mr Javarra, general rapporteur of the majority, is the modern challenge and the main question of the representative authority. It does not have the features it had during the period of Baimar, where mainly what was questioned was the democratic character of the culture, through the projection of an alternative authoritarian, state-sponsored model. Today, the question of democracy has as its characteristic the predominance of the economy towards politics. This is manifested in many ways. On the one hand, the preservation of whole sections of political decision away from the people's delegation. The central banks, especially the European Central Bank, are an example of the isolation of important economic decisions from the democratic principle. On the other hand, the attack on social rights, due to the economic logic of neoliberalism, has the same effect at the level of political legitimacy: it makes the impression to the citizens that, whatever they vote - because of the imperialisation, as I said before, of the critical economic decisions by the political democratic decision - is the economic orthodoxy that will prevail. In fact, this is coupled with the continuing drop in their standard of living and the deterioration of social rights and conquests, because of this policy. The European Commission itself, in the White Paper which she made public about the future of Europe, a year ago, said the remorseful one, said that because of this trend we are the first generation Europeans to fear that our children will have a worse life than ours. The combination of these two trends, therefore, both the direct consequence of neoliberalism, denouncing the political process, give citizens the impression that politicians do not speak their own language. This results in the emergence of the anti-democratic characteristics in so-called non-liberal democracies. We have tried to address these phenomena of questioning politics and democracy. In what way? By strengthening the elements of representativeness of our democracy, so that the House better reflects the will of the electorate, which is guaranteed by our proposal to establish simple proportionality. At the same time, we are strengthening the prestige and credibility of the political world, which has also been frustrated by the corrosive influence of neoliberalism, unfortunately in our country and because of the phenomena of interlocutory, which traditionally characterise the political system and phenomena of common criminal nature. That is why we wanted to deal with some of these consequences explicitly, for example, the phenomenon of unelected Prime Ministers, through which you are trying to pass policies that otherwise could not pass through the electorate. What happened in Doville to George Papandreou is known. How the House succumbed to accept the appointment of an unelected Prime Minister, who would have carried out exactly those decisions that were not allowed to be put to a referendum then, is a typical example. We have other provisions that strengthen the validity of the Member, especially those relating to the non-professionalisation of the parliamentary function, setting a ceiling of terms of reference. For those of us who have been accused of slandering in this decision, let them see a little bit of the Macron proposals for constitutional revision. They contain precisely this regulation, because there too it has become aware that the unreliability of policy is a universal and general phenomenon and must be restored. But here above all, we need to protect the price of the political world - it will not be discussed today, but I am referring to it because it is a coherent element of the logic of our proposal - and the need at last to complete the crimes of civil servants and, above all, of the Ministers. We have historical responsibility for this issue. Tomorrow we will discuss this in greater detail, but the House will feel that what we are doing is not about the fate of one, two or three seasons, about the future of politics. The first category of our proposals in the architecture of the culture is the need to strengthen the House as the most representative body of popular sovereignty. The second category of our proposals is the need to introduce institutional counterweights, in other words support for the people in the form of direct democracy in the representative system. Here I pointed out in other cases the significant regression of the New Democracy even in relation to its recent positions, the ones it had put forward in its December 2014 Review Proposal. There, contrary to what her general rapporteur said today, she recognised the need to have referendums on a legislative initiative and a more proportional electoral system. The reason why this great turn is found is because at both levels - both at the level of neoliberalism and at the level of conservativeism - New Democracy is now becoming a more neoliberal and more neo-conservative party. The possibility of direct recourse to the people is of great importance also for the possibility of recovering the trust of the ordinary citizen towards politics, but for dealing with those economic aspects of neoliberalism, which, on many occasions, the political system promotes, because of the seals I have referred to earlier. Thus, for example, a referendum in Italy prevented water privatization. By referendum in Ireland and Poland the status of public property was protected. And, of course, contrary to the criticism that referendums are contrary to minority rights and freedoms in general, new rights have been introduced by referendums, such as the marriage of homosexuals in Iceland and Slovenia or the divorce in Italy. And those who think that the referendums are a tool of populism, let them study the more than a hundred twenty referendums that have taken place in the last three decades in Europe and see the constitutions of mature democracies, such as in Austria, where the President is in a referendum foreseeable even the withdrawal of the President. I said the words 'President of the Republic' and I go to this section. I think the most revealing phrase of the majority rapporteur-general today in relation to the President's election is that the President is'symbolic'. That is why and with their proposal they obviously want to elect a symbolic president. I do not need to repeat the arguments I have put forward before, because this is contrary to the logic of our culture that wants the President of the Republic to regulate the country and its ability to be a point of balance in the society. The President of Italy does not have less powers than the Greek President. And you saw how important President Marella's intervention in the Italian crisis was.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u142	He doesn't have the power.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u143	That's exactly what I said. I said, therefore, that the President of the Republic, as a regulator of the civil society especially in crisis, has an increased political role, which this New Democracy proposal will not allow him to play, which actually ends up electing a President with a smaller majority than the one we want for the independent authorities, as though the President of the Republic is a mere commander of the ECO. Look at something even more important: it allows it to be elected by a qualified majority, without any elections being held. So what's that supposed to mean? It will mean that the elected President of the Republic is declared to have an absolute majority of the Parliament as a whole. What does this mean for legalisation and its ability to do its regulatory role? How could you tolerate - such a degeneration of the state's function of the President of the Republic? And I think that the double successive lapsus, which the majority rapporteur-in-Office of the Council has made to speak of a President of the New Democracy, referring to the President of the Republic - for the well-known reasons we know from Freud about what the lapsus is showing - I think it is a statement of the intention of close party control and the President of the Republic, the same wavelength that the New Democracy is generally trying to establish a party state from the last details of the administration to the top of the state. That is why I think that whatever the political position of each of us we should safeguard the credibility of politics. That is why we have not responded to the 'cost' of the New Democracy, to vote on a proposal for the President of the Republic with which he does not agree, with our own 'cost', that is, to say, to some of our own Members voting on the contrary, because then we would also become accomplices to the degeneration of the culture. And I repeat that it is a question of democracy to respect the constitution. If the tendencies of demilitarisation of the electorate are strengthened, only the enemies of democracy will be able to rejoice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two words I will say in response to the arguments I have heard about this 'collapse' of the New Democracy, that the mediation of elections due to the democratic principle saves the new proposal of the New Democracy because of its uproar in the elections. First of all, I should like to remind you that the Constitution imposes a duration of consensus, so that we can have a review, thus a coincidence of the will of two Bulgarians. Secondly, what was set out in the first Review - and so it was in the knowledge of the electorate - was the majority that had been concentrated in favour of the SYRIZA proposal, in favour of the proposal for the immediate election of the President of the Republic. As much as the President of the Parliament, whom I respect, wanted to put it in political action, could not remove the essence of the criticism we have made, that it was a trick, a trick that fully worked out in the Constitution. Even his confession that "on the basis of sacrifice" we had to strengthen the country's ability to rule, I think it is a confession that he accepted your prolongation - of the New Democracy - to sacrifice the Constitution, to sacrifice both its letter and its spirit in the face of a political objective. That is exactly what we called the 'working of the Constitution'. I conclude by saying that we too think that the country should be effectively governed by executive power, because if the Prime Minister does not govern the economic centres which constitute the system, not only what we call 'interoperable' but also, in general, the system that often dictates and imposes on politically elected governments. It is therefore an element of democracy and the strengthening of the representative body, the parliament, and the strengthening of the executive. That is where our disagreement with the Communist Party of Greece lies. They do not see, I think, that this is how we are actually trying to strengthen policy towards the economy, civil democracy against its neoliberal undermine. There are many aspects to our review proposals that also have that character. First - first - the coincidence of our will with other sides of the Chamber not to interrupt the life of the parliamentary term on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic, our proposal for the creative vote of confidence. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that our proposal has had a reasonable overall approach to strengthening democracy and the prestige of politics. It is obvious that due to the prevalence of the New Democracy in the elections it will not be so wide-ranging the institutional footprint of the final review, but that is the policy, a lasting conflict that reflects power correlations. And this small improvement in the institutional landscape is, in particular, in view of how negative it would have been for the institutional promotion of neoliberalism, they have been avoided for at least a decade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I did yesterday and today I shall begin with the report of the thoughts and proposals of the Change Movement on an article in the Constitution that is to be reviewed. Our proposal is to abolish the provision for the dismantling of the Parliament on non-election of the President of the Republic, and my reference will be to Article 32(4) for the revision of which we voted by two hundred and twenty-four votes in the previous Parliament. Our proposal is - I do not claim to be the best possible, but I will tell you and what is our concern - that Article 32(4) should be replaced and, after the third vote, if the increased majority of eighty-eight, that the President should be extended for one year. Then, in this vote, a hundred and sixty votes will be required. Although this increased majority has not been achieved, the President's term of office should be extended until the next elections. I want to explain it. What's our agony? Our agony is not to delegate the president's election and his face or the president's. The abandonment of the dismantling of the House is a very proper and imperative move, but we must be very careful about what to replace it. Our concern is, therefore, to find a regulation that ensures increased democratic legitimacy for the President or for the President, so we come to that conclusion. The abolition of the dissolution of the House, ladies and gentlemen, should have taken place with the 2001 Review. PASOK was then supported by Mr. Venizelos. The New Democracy did not agree and finally the provision did not change. I had thought of no evil at that time as a new Member. The practice of the parties, I said, creates a treaty of culture and this treaty of culture in turn will create a constitutional custom. What did I mean? The good practice Andreas Papandreou and Antonis Samaras elect Kostis Stefanopoulou. The good practice Kostas Simitis and Kostas Karamanlis reelect him. The good practice Kostas Karamanlis and George Papandreou elect Mr. Papoulias. But I was wrong, and I also showed a naive, forgiven, perhaps because I was only a few months of parliamentarianity. Stavros Dimas was not elected in 2015, not because he was not appropriate - otherwise - but why SYRIZA and ANEL and DIMAR violated the Constitution in order to lead the country to elections. Polarization came back by crushing the institutions. Even elections in November 2015 suggested, I remind you, that the Samara-Venizelos government in the then opposition. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, All this because Article 32(4) was not revised in 2001. So let's change it. Besides, SYRIZA did one more cubicity. He changed his mind. It now supports - luckily! - the dissolution of the House and attempting to convince us how harmful the dissolution of the House is of non-election for the President of the Republic. But he did and is now wrong in the opposite direction. The first mistake, Mr Voutsis, former President of Parliament, is that you have given all your votes as a party in the revision of Rule 32 and you have not heard our calls not to do so. You could have followed, in another form, our example that we voted on through the parliamentary delegation, so that this matter is not just in the hands of the majority. You said today - and yesterday I said it again, and today I say that you have made very political and noble speeches - that this method puts at risk the changes which we jointly support in Article 3. Yeah, but we didn't expect you to have a hundred and fifty one votes to make that change. Then we would vote three and four so that we could have closed it. But you don't agree with anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u146	ANELs did not vote for religion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u147	Yes, but while you were certain, you finally appeared with a hundred fifty votes that then became fifty one. One vote was sought at the last minute. If we had come to an agreement, we would have finished this matter. But our method was correct because now the New Democracy would need others to have a hundred and eighty to change the Constitution in a better direction. The second mistake you make is to propose that, on the grounds of non-election of the President of the Republic, applications are brought to the electorate, namely direct elections. You will allow me to say that this mistake if it was accepted would be a disaster, because it restores the prosecution and the admiration of the executive, that is, abolishes the elected parliamentary authority. This is where I have to make a clarification. It was elected as a parliamentarian when it acquired the guarantees of government stability, because the rationalisation of the parliamentary culture means the creation of conditions of effective operation, which, firstly, presupposes the stability of the executive and legislative function and, secondly, electoral systems which guarantee this stability. It came as a need, therefore, because the systems of purely proportional and the two-headed executive power led to government instability in most European countries, including Germany, Austria, France, Italy and many others. I am referring to France in the fourth French Republic. In Greece - here is an example, which is not one of the worst, because we have countries where governments were staying in the rule of their place a week, five days, fifteen days - in the 1926-1935s, ten successive governments had an average stay of seven months: the governments of Evtide, the Couple, Zaimi, Venizelos, Papastasios, Venizelos, again, Tsaldari, Venizelos, Venizelos again, Otto-Tsaldari. Historically, then, instability was overcome by limiting the absolute proportionality of the electoral systems, as well as by establishing strict conditions for a government to fall. The most important of all was to limit the Head of State - King or President - to regulators, by limiting his responsibilities, but also by abolishing direct election, when we of course had elected Head of State. Do we have exceptions? We do. Portugal, Austria, Ireland. But there the direct election has been in line with the purely parliamentary character of the culture, because the presidents have been limited to decades in completely regulatory tasks. We, ladies and gentlemen, have lived in Greece where we have been experiencing it for many decades. We've experienced him almost all the 20th century. He tended to get over it. It's over. But it was reproduced in the years of the recent economic crisis. And splitting, like demagogy, as well as populism, means the so-called convenience for some in a country's difficulty and the way through it to gain political benefits. It would therefore be a mistake to directly elect the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, even if we removed all the responsibilities and few and limited powers of the President of the Republic today, the direct election of a single representative would put it at the top of the hierarchy of the institutions of the state, because it would be equipped with unlimited political power and the political crisis would thus be a day-to-day political possibility, and its conversion into a state crisis would be permanently open. And one last point of simple reasoning. As you know, our parliament elects President of the Republic without words. Why with no words? Because we say - the Constitution imposes it and we all support it - that the President of the Republic is not entitled to any political reason. Of course he has political views, but he keeps them for himself, to succeed in his regulatory role. On a direct election, what could the candidate presidents stand before the electorate? How is the sitter a better regulator of the culture than the other or the other? No, that's not it. We'd have a direct election for no reason at all. But there is no such thing. You need to realize that. But the New Democracy's proposal is also suffering. It suffers from both democratic and rationality. Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, for you to propose a majority of two candidates in this regard? That's a mistake. You say: 'But the current constitution also provides for it.' That is true, but the current Constitution provides for this because it also provides for the dismantling of Parliament in the intervening period and at some point has to be President. Here we are abolishing the appeal to the people - we have explained why - and you are keeping a provision that was in force and legalised since we had a break-up in the House and elections. But the elections do not go far enough. So you do not respond convincingly to the argument we put to you because the principle of democratic legitimacy and executive power puts it in place. And I want to repeat it, because you have to erase it and you haven't deleted it yet. What does it mean to say that the elder will be elected? To tell my colleagues and colleagues that I did not say this in the morning where there was more tension in the Chamber, I now say it in full peace: the committee was released before we came to the elder's point, and a proposal to be elected by lot, which I do not want to describe. How'd you think of that? We played it in a way that reminded us of football. Luckily you withdrew it, but you replaced it with the elder. And the example I mentioned this morning, namely the use of this surname, is wrong both in substance and in terms of its type. You need to remove that because your proposals are going to the area of asbestos and it is not right anymore. Your intervention was correct for the non-dissolution of the House. Mr Kastanidis will develop it to you - I can hear it, so that if there is a mood, we too can see our proposal again - that even a hundred and eighty to define as a majority, since there will be no dissolution of the House, it is certain that the majority will be found. I can hear it as reasonable that thought. Sounds reasonable. Of course, Mr Kamine says that in Italy, which does not anticipate the dissolution of the House, the political system is being exposed by not indicating the President of the Republic. It is not easy to end up somewhere, but since we are right to dismantle the House, let us find the best solution. We have thought of something that we do not appreciate as a virtue, but we appreciate it as better than an absolute majority of fifty-one and certainly much better than the relevant majority, which we reject by definition. Now, from the third section - I do not have much time - we are simply announcing that we are not accepting it - we have developed it because - the proposals on creative distrust and not even that on the condition of parliamentary status in order to appoint a Prime Minister. In this section we propose to be added to Article 68(2), which is a very positive change - a second subparagraph as follows: 'During a parliamentary term, two committees of inquiry may be set up with a proposal from the opposition Members in accordance with the procedure laid down in the previous subparagraph'. This is where we agree. They're breaking up with details. Let us find a common wording by night. We agree with New Democracy and SYRIZA. Obviously, as I said at the outset, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation could be provided for by a simple change in the Rules of Procedure, but the disgrace of the parties to our political system - that is, all of us - has not allowed it for many decades. The regulation we are proposing is correct, because it is not possible for the government to look at it with the highest means of parliamentary control only when it wishes to do so. Finally, from the fourth section, we propose revising Article 73, while rejecting the extension of the referendum. I shall briefly refer to the second one at the beginning. The relevant Articles 28 and 44(2) of the Constitution do not require any change, no additions. The application in practice of Article 28 with the combined application of paragraphs 2 and 3 has led to very positive results. To add the possibility of a referendum proposed by SYRIZA here, I do not have much to say. I will confine myself - and that is enough - to read, ladies and gentlemen, the question put to the Greek people in July 2015. Listen to what was the question: 'It is necessary to accept the draft agreement tabled by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund at Eurogroup on 25 June 2015 and consists of two parties making up their single proposal? The first document shall be entitled ‘Reforms for the collection of the current programme and beyond’ (‘Reforms for the completion of the current programme’) and the second ‘Preliminary debt sustainability analysis’. Illegal referendum, ladies and gentlemen, because the question was incomprehensible on the one hand and on the other, because the prevailing interpretation proved to be totally pretextful. And it is well known that fraud in referendums results from the way the questions are asked. That is what I said, Mr Voutsi, that you said to me that the process has evolved quite legitimately. Then you were, if I'm not mistaken, Minister of the Interior. And, of course, no one questioned that there were no frauds in the poll. No one doubted that there was a procedure under the law and under the Constitution, but we are telling you - and I said it from this Step on the day when I expressed our party in the relevant debate as rapporteur - that the position of the question makes the referendum in the first place false and illegal. You know very well because of experience, and those of you who are involved in this institution know that referendums are an institution that needs to be elected. Because, if not elected, the referendum is won by the one asking the question. And that's very serious. I have no time to report to the modern referendums in Europe. The institution is very problematic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u148	That is why our main proposal is for a people's initiative in the referendum so that the people themselves may ask the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u149	Yes, but also the gathering of signatures leads exactly to the same conclusion, my dear colleague, Mr Katrugale. We are against the expansion of the institution. We are in favour of the institution, but also of its election. The 2015 referendum was therefore illegal, because its result was from the point of view of the question falsified. After all, the 'no' - we have said so many times - had nothing to do with the question. Because, as proved then, the government turned it with courage and comfort into 'yes', yes to the Memorandum. So not in the referendums on Article 28. That is precisely our view, and also the SYRIZA's proposal to refer to referendums in general, that is to say, the revision of Article 44(2). I'll go. We need to look positively at the revision of Article 73 of the Constitution, where we need to add a special paragraph to the possibility of the popular legislative initiative. We have submitted this proposal for years now. We submitted it to the previous House and to it as our proposal. SYRIZA did it, too. Our proposal, because we do not have 50 Members, was not included in the proposals. It was registered that of SYRIZA, with which we agree. I was honoured, as rapporteur for the Change Movement in the Commission on Review, to challenge and participate in a creative and serious dialogue, which lasted for about an hour - from the Minutes you can see this - and I have explained in detail the arguments put forward on this proposal. There, in the debate with great pleasure, we have heard Mrs Dora Bakoyannis and Mr Stylianides, President of the Commission, take their place positively. SYRIZA, we, the rest of the parties were data, but the majority had not been expressed and expressed positively. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, we can hope that this evening we will have heard that this proposal is part of the revised provisions and that, therefore, we are finally going to go for nine revised provisions that we will vote on Monday. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a phrase and with this one to finish...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u150	You need to close down, Mr. Loverdo. You see the clock across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u151	I'm closing, Mr. President. I can see that. I keep looking at it. But I want to say something and I want you to listen carefully, because you are the President of Parliament for years. Listen. The Constitution - and now that this regulation and the results of the popular legislative initiative are introduced - stipulates that Members' proposals for legislation must be introduced in plenary, that is to say, to follow the legislative process. But in practice the previous President of Parliament, and his previous President, did not put it. She was putting someone, not everything. This Constitution forbids it. This practice, which is a long time, is not just about the previous President. It's a long-term negative practice. By choice, the law proposals have been put in place. This practice has to be stopped. That is why we have proposed, Mr Javarra, that a paragraph 7 be added to Article 73 which compels the legislative procedure to the position of the proposals. This, of course, has not been accepted, but now that you are joining the change to Rule 73, you can add a phrase that both the proposals of law and the proposals of the people's legislative initiative are binding on Parliament's legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Loverdo, please, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u153	That is what I have to say, ladies and gentlemen. These are the proposals of the Change Movement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u154	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Ioannis Giokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u155	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u156	Here you go, Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I am sorry, but this is the economy of time, so that I do not have to speak at all. I would like, while it is Mr Loverdes to clarify this in the incident that the debate on the 2015 referendum has been evolving since yesterday. I'd like for a minute just to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u158	I'll give you two minutes, Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u159	No, no, you don't have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u160	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u161	I would like to say clearly that here are the Minutes of the detailed debate on the proposal for unconstitutionalism, which had come to the start of the debate that Saturday. The rapporteur was Mr Venizelos from the point of view of the party to the KINAL. There has been a debate beyond the parliamentary representatives, and so on. It is clear that during that debate too - where at the end of the New Democracy left, it was not in the vote on which constitutionality was adopted - but mainly then, that is, during and until the referendum was held and immediately thereafter, there was no appeal, regardless of whether there were political views. Political views existed and were circulated in the public area as to whether it should have been right, if the questions were correct, but how they were put and so forth, but there was no recourse to a competent court, according to the Constitution, institution or in any way to put the referendum as invalid, incorrect or illegal. That is what I would like to say and I say to you that the Minutes are here. It has not been raised with this tension that this issue is now being raised. That is what I wanted to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u162	Good. The list of speakers is closed. Forty Members have been written. Because we're late to begin, count to 12 o'clock at night. Mr. Gioka, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u163	The question arises, which we have also asked in committee: why should Article 32 now be changed, concerning the election of the President of the Republic? Many times in the past controversy have been created, discussions around the President of the Republic, around persons, around processes, but now it is more urgent than New Democracy and SYRIZA and from the other parties the need to revise Article 32. So we ask: Why now? The answer is that you are now more urgently aiming at establishing the terms of a government's stability policy, namely to ensure the continuity of the dominant policy, which can be interrupted by a number of factors and, indeed, at a time when there is serious global developments from the possibility of a new crisis to trade and real wars and which, of course, Greece will not be affected by these developments. It is what has been heard many times in the constitutional review procedure for the resistance of the provisions of the Constitution to similar conditions that may arise in the future. Let's make it clear that it's not our stress. Our stress is how the people will take advantage of any cracks, which they have created - created with mathematical accuracy - how they will exploit it in terms of class struggle in order for the people to put their own seal on developments. The proposal to decouple the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament and the call for elections is part of this very logic and is a genuine common proposal of yours, regardless of whether it has different versions. That is why, moreover, the present Article 32 in the House, in the previous House, proposed, brought together a large majority, more than a hundred eighty Members, and now it can be revised by a simple majority of fifty-five Members. Behind this joint proposal - coincidence, say it as you like - which has elements, obviously, of political opportunism, hides what we have said before, your objective for the continuation of the governments, the continuation of the state, without interference, without interruption, which may be caused by a failed president of the Republic's election. From there on, everyone's dead ends, because all the proposals that have been tabled, that is, both the New Democracy and the SYRIZA and the Change Movement, suffer and lead to dead ends. In fact, the New Democracy is to propose the election of the President of the Republic by a relative majority and by an elder in the event of a tie. Where does it come from from from? Potentially, it comes from Church law. The original plan, in fact, of the New Democracy which was also shared in the committee and was then withdrawn, even talking about a draw in the event of a tie. And, indeed, it is the classic, authentic urban party of the Greek Parliament, the New Democracy, to propose that the top of your political life, which should be surrounded by the halo of consensus, be made even minority. And what's that for? It is because everything retreats to the objective of government stability that should in no way be undermined. In this sense, SYRIZA joins in, despite the fact that in 2014 he took advantage of the presidential election to have a government rotation, which at that time - that is the reality - this government change wanted it by the majority of the Greek people, regardless of whether in the course of things it was denied, it was disappointed to see that the memorials were continued, anti-grass policy continued, that all that we continue to live to date. Today, therefore, in the context of the self-criticism that SYRIZA may do for that period, it says that the House should not be dismantled, the government should not be changed on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic and that there should definitely be arrangements for consensus - those are your words - in order to elect the President of the Republic. I am going to give a parentheses, but the governments do not, of course, change just because there is an election of the President of the Republic. Others are the deepest factors leading to government change and among these factors can at a certain point be the popular pressure and the need for this pressure either to be integrated or to be restrained, as has been done many times in the past. That is why we are saying that this popular intervention should not only remain at the level of pressure on governmental rotation, but also create conditions for more and more radical twists. The parentheses are closed. So the question arises: When was SYRIZA right, when did he take advantage of the presidential election to have the government rotation or now that he says that the election of the President of the Republic should not be exploited for such political developments and that there should be strong binding consensus between the political forces? In fact, in one and the other case, that is, the attitude you held in 2014-2015 and today in the attitude you are holding, the deepest motivation is the same. It was and is to give a lifesaving to the urban political system. In the conditions of 2014-2015, where New Democracy and PASOK could not ensure stable governance of anti-popular management, life-saving was then a government that would supposedly express the hopes and struggles of the people, but ultimately continue the same policy. In the conditions of 2019, your lifesaving and your contribution is to join the forefront of sacred government stability. This is the difference between 2014-2015 and 2019. You have also worked out a proposal which, in our view, is deeply reactionary and which is why it was also voted against by SYRIZA Members in the previous House, and that is why it is not in the articles under review. What was that proposal? It was the direct election of the President of the Republic by the people who show it as a democratic upgrade. However, such a possible election of the President with a general election is the fact that, objectively, it would strengthen the role of a single representative institution, even with the powers it has today, apart from practically opening up the debate to increase these powers in the future, because the strength that would give the President of the Republic's general vote would objectively open up the debate so that this power would not be naked, but should be shielded with further important and decisive responsibilities. It is also true that the New Democracy has had such a proposal before, because this proposal reflects more general considerations, which exist for the evolution of the institution of the President of the Republic in an institution more decisive in terms of ensuring what we have said before, of government and political stability. For us, the institution of the President of the Republic is among the hardest core of civil power. The President himself is guardian of the prestige of this core and because he is playing this role, so he must be surrounded by the photon of consensus, of non-confrontation, regardless of the particular purposes and ways of ensuring this consensus. Each President can only move within a given anti-grassroots political framework, ratify the anti-grassroots decisions of the House, express the general objectives of the main policy. And this role does not change if the President has those or other responsibilities or if he is elected in one way or another. The substance remains the same. That is why we, as a JRC, do not consent to the President of the Republic, not because we concentrate on the person proposed every time, but because we do not consent to what the institution expresses within the existing system. As far as the group of articles we are discussing is concerned, this objective of government's stability policy is also seen in other proposals, such as the SYRIZA's proposal to amend Article 84 and the constructive motion of censure which actually leads to the constitutionalisation of minority governments. That is where the amendment to Article 84 leads. Of course, a similar proposal in the House that the New Democracy did not have. It was the New Democracy's proposal for the constitutionalisation of stable four-year governmental circles, that is, for no reason that the government that was elected does not change, which leads from another way to the same result, that is to say, to remain governments even those who may at some point lose Parliament's confidence. Rule 84 clearly states that even if a motion of censure is voted on, that is to say, even if one government loses the confidence of the House, this government will only change if the House agrees to another Prime Minister and, by extension, to another government. That is why we are talking about the constitutionalisation of minority governments, copying an article. That's what SYRIZA did. He has copied an article in the German Constitution, Article 67, which has even been criticised as an article guaranteeing the democracy of the Chancellor or Chancellor, because we now have a woman in Chancellor. You do not question this risk, whenever we point it out, but you say 'we do so so that we do not have a type of government of Papademos'. To remind you of the story that the fall of the Papandreou government which then led to the Papademos government was not just some choice of extra-institutional centers. The Government of Papademu was aiming at creating a stronger government majority at the time - New Democracy, PASOK, People's Orthodox Alert - to curb the popular movement, the pressure that was in place at the time, the struggles that we wanted and we sought to have more radical features. But, if you look at this, the proposal for Article 84 leads precisely to the governments of the Papademos type, a new majority which will end up with another government, with another Prime Minister, if the previous one loses Parliament's confidence. What do you respond to this criticism? You say that you are building, he says, institutional counterweights and the institutional counterweights you are making - supposedly - are the simple analogue on the one hand and the referendums on the other. Let us put aside the fact that in your proposal for the Constitution you are not talking purely about analogy, because beyond the cap you are also saying that the distribution of seats to the political parties may deviate up to 10% from their election rate. So beyond the cap, you're predicting your proposal and bonuses. Where and how and how is the simple analogue guarantee from the Socialist Governments on its own? The government of Papademu in 2011 could be formed, even if there was a mere analogue. I just don't remember how many Members of Parliament were then - it would have been less. However, such a government could well be set up with a mere analogy. So, yes, the simple analogue, the real and the unadulterated is the fairest electoral system because it genuinely reflects the popular will, without natural destiny and bonuses provided. However, well - and there are too many examples from other countries - reactionary, anti-grass governments can also be formed through mere analogy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Now we are going to the second institutional counterweight you put in. You're talking about popular referendums. Let us also put aside the fact that it is oxymomile for the party to speak of a referendum that abused the concept of the referendum in 2015 by proposing a referendum with the question: "With the memorandum, or with the Troika Memorandum?" Heads win, tails lose. Let's leave that. What do you say in your referendum proposal? You say: 'For critical national issues, if a number of five hundred thousand citizens are gathered and social issues are raised'. However, the measures imposed by the Memorandums were 90% budgetary measures. You are exempting these from your referenda proposal. So the measures that have passed since the crisis and the memoranda are excluded from our proposal on referendums. And you're putting one more locker link. Who's that? If this figure is raised, for a referendum on a social issue, it is possible for the majority of the House to cancel it by questioning its nature and content. So the second institutional counterweight, which you are supposed to put, does not apply. You are also talking about the popular legislative initiative. In fact, I see now that everyone is adopting the popular legislative initiative. However, no government, over the years, has observed even the elementary in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, that it had to be discussed in this House once a month. Nobody kept it. You are talking about the popular legislative initiative and what was institutionalised did not follow any government. In order not to talk about the proposal of the five hundred particles, the proposal for a law which they have tabled, and we are still waiting for a debate to be held in the House. We therefore believe that these proposals are being made and that they are being put to the vote. This is the logic behind everyone's proposals how government political stability will be consolidated in every way. We say that the people should not be afraid of instability. We've said it, we'll see you again. He must, with his struggle, broaden it as much as he can, shape cracks in this rotten political system and, above all, shape conflict conditions with the rotten exploitation system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u164	The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Konstantinos Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the 'Revision that has not taken place'. In paraphrasing the title of the book of the great Alexis Diaras "The reform that has not been carried out", I will say "The revision that has not been done". I think this title fits perfectly in the current, this one, an attempt to revise the constitution. I'm really sorry. We spent so many hours last morning until night, also the day before yesterday, we dealt with almost two months with a so-called Constitutional Review and, once again, did not happen. We consumed ourselves in the neutrality that SYRIZA has really eaten, which tries with nails and teeth to rip off from the Constitution anything that reminds us of what is Greek, what is Orthodox or what is patriotic, anything that is inextricably linked to the Greek history and culture. You don't want to hear anything about Orthodoxy, nothing about religion, nothing about the Greekity of Macedonia, about the acquired Greeks through their bloody and long-lasting struggles, nothing that reminds of Greece. That's the only thing that's bad for you. Since Postpopulation, the Greeks have actually been bored, to listen to radical changes that will change the form of Greece, words, words, words, words, to mock voters, to mock their ears, supposedly attempts to make substantial changes, which, of course, always remain attempts. We had the opportunity to change and modernise the Constitution for the benefit of the Greek citizen. The only substantial change that we have achieved - and if we do so, because I see that something is starting to sound - is the vote of the results, which, of course, was no reason to delay that much. This will only be possible from this Review, if we succeed, I repeat. Have you really wondered how this all looks out to the citizens? SYRIZA, New Democracy, Change and PASOK Movement brought to the country three memos. You have reached Greece to the limits of bankruptcy. Even the banks were closed with the help of your partner, Mr. Varoufakis. You imposed lawlessness and anarchy. You are baptizing to the limits of legality. So you baptized lawlessness and anarchy. You have turned Greece into an unregulated, dangerous and insecure, and by force, de and well, multicultural country. If you haven't figured it out, you're the same, you're hardly different to anything. We have spent so many days listening to legal analyses of the articles of the Constitution. You come here - I said it before - and you do a demonstration of legal knowledge, as if it really cared about the Greek. You think that's why he trusted you, that's why he voted for you? All you do with your choices is hurt him, but unstoppable, and immerse the knife deeper in his wound. You've been playing with the words of the Constitution since the process started, without any substance. What does Greek win? Here's a question, then! What does the Greek win from the Constitutional Review if the Greeks themselves cannot safeguard his right to be an Orthodox Christian and to call it, his right not to be a minority in his country, his right to live with dignity in his country? Since the Century, you have destroyed the country. You have promised the future of young people who leave our homeland by thousands to seek a better chance. And all you care about is protecting the moulders, the boulders and all those who undisturbedly destroy the property of the state and citizens. Is there any plan for extinction of the country, any plan signed by the gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA? The masks - I said it before - started falling. Today, we are going to draw very useful conclusions. It will seem who really counts on the Greek citizens and who does not, who really wants the Greek citizens to play a dominant role and who wants the citizens at the corner of shareholders and simple observers, who is the one who suits them to send the citizen every time in the polls, with the bonus electoral laws, and who are those who want to put an end to this reality that harms our democracy, a democracy that - unfortunately, in recent years - is planting, ladies and gentlemen. According to Aristotle's time-consuming definition, democracy is the civilisation to which the "partial rule and rule" applies. What did the top teacher of antiquity say? That citizens in democracy dominate themselves. This, you know, is achieved by linking two elements: political freedom and equality. This is precisely the two elements that constitute the identity of the sovereignty of the citizens. But the Greeks, this identity of its sovereignty, read it in ancient writings, do not experience it today. On this, then, the blurred - because demographic elements are blurred - the new challenge is heard in the name of globalisation. Already our party against the dilemma 'globalization or countries' chooses clearly homelands. But the country is not isolated and indifferent, not outside the world's developments. She wants her there in front and we give her the point she needs. And that is clearly in favour of Greek citizens. What exactly are we talking about? I'll tell you. We are talking about the institutional and economic shielding of our society, by transferring power downwards to the basis of society, namely to the Greek citizens. How's that gonna happen? Secondly, I would like to answer this question. We will achieve this by putting society in politics. We must give her a decisive role in the political system. We should give her modern weapons to fight. But of course we're talking for free. It's a witch hunt. It is more obvious that the provisions to be reviewed do not show the courage needed to pass through the bankrupt third Hellenic Republic in the future Second Hellenic Republic. At a time when you once again prove your fear, the positions of the Greek Solution are capable of opening new horizons for the country and for the Greeks. For the Greek Solution, unlike the previous ones in this Constitutional Review, the micro-party purposes do not belong. The simplicity of our Constitution leaves no room for misinterpretation. So what does the Constitution say? All powers come from the people, there are for him and the nation and they are exercised as defined in the Constitution. Were the Prespecies' Agreement in favour of the people? Were the memos in favour of the people? Is the nightmare of the illegal immigrants who SYRIZA and New Democracy brought them to the door of our home? Is the future sale of our natural resources in Greece? So if the Constitution protects our rights, what did it do for all this? I'll put it better. You who trusted your future, what did you do for the benefit of the Greeks, as the Constitution commits you to do? Unfortunately, absolutely nothing. I want here to stand by the Prime Minister and his duties. The rights of parliamentary minorities and Parliament's confidence in the government. It is of course good to remember that in the first and final analysis our mandates are Greek citizens. So under no circumstances can the Prime Minister of the country have a direct mandate from the people. The Prime Minister must have elected a Member. The Greek Solution says the people's command and acceptance of the Prime Minister's face is necessary. The people cannot be surprised by voting for something and then something else comes out of it. We've lived it in the past. In view of the fact that all the political forces of Parliament are here with the vote of the Greek people, we should have the power to give the essential power to the voice of those who have chosen to represent them. What do I mean? Everyone in here, no matter how bad it is for you, we have a duty and a duty to listen to the voice of the Greek citizens and, as I said, we can express that voice. Everyone, not just the ruling party. So the Greek Solution in relation to the motion of distrust against the government suggests that any parliamentary party can submit it, irrespective of the number of Members it has. We believe that each parliamentary party can make a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry. If that were possible, as you know, we would already have a committee of inquiry into what really happened there on the banks of the Prespes, where we, the Greek citizens, never know how and why you drowned our Macedonia. Only in this way will we achieve the real involvement of all the parliamentary groups, all the parliamentary parties. Only so will the Greeks know, because it is very important that their choice in the polls will be essentially a calculated force within the National Representation. Do you realize what will be the gain? It will be that the Greeks will be able to rule themselves, as Aristotle said earlier. But how will citizens be effectively involved in the country's governance? With the referendums on a popular initiative, where the holding of a referendum begins with at least a hundred thousand signatures. What are these referendums doing? They strengthen the sense of responsibility of the citizen and the interest of the public. We are given a chance for the Review. And it's one of the few that we have and we shouldn't throw it away. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck. Let us give our country, which once gave birth to democracy, the opportunity for citizens to participate in shaping the future. The Greeks' ability to submit proposals for laws in the Parliament is an expression of the popular will, but to be realistic. I'm listening to a proposal of five hundred thousand signatures. It's an inappropriate target. Italy cannot, with sixty-two million people, require fifty thousand signatures and you, gentlemen of the government, ask for five hundred thousand signatures from a country of 11 million citizens. On the basis of the logic of Greek participation in my previous positions, therefore, I highlighted the importance - to go to another issue - of the President of the Republic, as a person and as an institution. I will not repeat the responsibilities and duties of the President of the Republic, I did so earlier. I would point out, however, that the Greek Solution clearly advocates that the President of the Republic should be elected directly by the people, in order to avoid everything that we have lived before here. New Democracy in 2014, in its proposal to elect the President of the Republic, had confessed that the regulatory role in favour of a pre-centralised governance system has been weakened, and now after five years, in 2019, it is also changing as a new government and saying something else. Now we have the ultimate state. He's handing over all the power to the Prime Minister. So the phrase "with a decision of the Prime Minister", not only meets, but also repeats, almost all bills. So your beliefs change from whether you are in power and whether you are not and that is sad. Unfortunately, as I have said before, the Review did not go far enough so that the way in which the President of the Republic can be elected can be changed. In the context of the revision of specific articles, therefore, our party believes that the non-election of the President of the Republic should be freed from parliamentary elections - the self-evident one - so that there is no sudden and premature interruption of parliamentary term. The parliamentary work should therefore have a follow-up and not depend on the election of the President of the Republic. But there must be greater acceptance for the person of the President of the Republic. Thus the provision of a minimum level of increased majority voting, combined with more consensus - at least three - parliamentary parties are a way of expressing citizens. In conclusion, I would like to point out that we must finally do the transcendance and practically recognise the value and role of the Greek citizens. We must all raise the stature of the Greeks together, those who have been so shaken in the difficult years of the Memorandum. Let us finally become a Parliament which with the Greeks will be able to meet the demands of the present and the hopes of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme 'The King and the revolution' organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and three teachers from the New Peramos High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The list of rapporteurs and special speakers is supplemented by Angeliki Adamopoulou from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin today's report on the question of committees of inquiry and speak of the famous committees of inquiry in the old terminology, namely those which give political responsibilities and which are the only committees of inquiry that should be operated in Parliament, leaving criminal responsibilities to the hands of justice alone. In the hands of serious and sincere parliaments, these committees can, in fact, be a genuine instrument of parliamentary control, highlight the truth behind political manipulations which are an important tool of parliamentary control. In our reality the institution appears bankrupt and manipulated by micro-political purposes, and that is not the responsibility of the institution nor of the Constitution. It is barely another abuse of traditional political forces at the expense of the quality of our political system. A valuable means of safeguarding political responsibility is being called for in the fight against cohorts, outside the subject, even on remote windows. Ladies and gentlemen, you support the numerical restriction, we do not need fewer committees of inquiry. We need better and more serious. It is a Trojan horse which limits the two examinations, and you are the one who is unfavourable to us by wrapping up the recognition of the right to parliamentary minorities. The right already exists. The abusive interpretation of majority voting to impose minority voting is the constant problem, but we will not charge that in the Constitution. As regards Article 28(2) and the referendums on the ratification of international treaties transposing Greece's sovereign rights, I would first like your attention and the Secretariat for a legislative and procedural issue, Mr President. In committee I mentioned in my introduction a word for word about our proposal, which I have also been working on at the Secretariat. But it was finally distributed in an incorrect version. So for the identity of the parliamentary speech and in order to make the necessary corrections, I will reread our proposal. To add, as the last subparagraph of Article 28, to the second paragraph of Article 28: ‘A law concerning a treaty or an agreement providing for the transfer of sovereign powers of the State, shall be adopted by a majority of four fifths of the total number of Members and ratified by a binding referendum’. I'm just going to stand on this proposal. Of course we want the citizens to agree to ratify the country's international treaty, with which it confers sovereignty over the state. This, after all, is not a foreign perspective towards Europeans. We had referendums on the European Constitution in France, Spain, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, and the Lisbon Treaty in Ireland. We want the same possibility for Greek citizens. We also want a strengthened guarantee filter and also directly linked to popular sovereignty at the level of representation, a parliamentary filter. We are therefore asking not only for a broad but a wide-ranging parliamentary consensus of Parliament when it is to be discussed and decided on such an important matter of national interest, which is the delegation of Greece's sovereign competence. That is why we are moving from a 3/5 majority to a 4/5 majority of Members. We want the people to come to the polls knowing that the political world has almost resented something that is so important, that that is, it has in fact considered that this is an assignment in Greece's interest and it passes it with strong approval. Then, at least forty Members of Parliament, the vote of such a law is taken by the citizens, who are called upon to answer a clear and clear question for a referendum. It is a double point that we insist on referring to the bindingity of such a referendum, since experience has shown us that we have not always received such decisions, which have been taken under the existing regime, but that it is not for everyone as self-evident as it is for us as the bindingity of a referendum, so that it does not end in a blank letter. With this proposal we are therefore taking a step further in safeguarding the interests of our country. We are looking for a broadly consensual resonance in the political world, while strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the House with a binding referendum and giving citizens the opportunity to judge at last some major issues relating to the sovereignty of the country and going beyond the planning declarations of the parties. Next issue, very important, is the popular legislative initiative. I will again borrow a reminder and a statement from Professor Constitutional Law Lina Papadopoulou. So it reminds us that the ability of the people to express themselves on a number of critical issues, whether high-policy, such as membership of the monetary union, or low-policy, such as setting up in the wind turbines, strengthens, deepens democracy not only because it triggers citizens between the elections, but also because it force politicians to think better and convince their voters, on the basis of arguments for the public but also of their own interests. The adoption or confirmation of a decision by the citizens thus strengthens its legitimacy. It is a strong antidote to a generalised crisis of credibility of the political and depreciation of democracy. So civil freedom is becoming a womb, as it is said, of specialised democratic legitimacy and of the rest of the fundamental rights, and they are therefore indiscriminate and not contrary to democracy. The direct-democratic institutions have their reference and roots to the ancient Greek state ideal that abolishes representation, because it replaces it with the mass popular participation of the electorate. The fact that in today's extensive states the constant substitution of direct democracy parliamentism seems to be a very difficult equation does not mean that coexistence is excluded. Switzerland is a very good example in this direction. A good start is to admit what the Political Science has seen in recent decades and what reality itself confirms that national representative democracy in Europe is going through a strong and lasting crisis. This crisis is hostile to democracy, because the political elites themselves create it to perpetuate power, according to Horovic. In other words, they themselves, who see their almightyness being challenged by the power of the European Union, are themselves reacting to the functional blockade of representative democracy by direct-democratic institutions, because they fear that they will lose other than their strength, this time by the citizens themselves. This, at the same time, also highlights a post-democratic treaty that sees the exercise of political power in terms of the ownership of the few. So it says attributes Professor Sotirelis that it is advisable to enrich the democratic elements of our society with institutions of direct popular participation. Such enrichment away from populist stereotypes and logical alterations of the culture is the best response to the logic of the techniques of power, which are destructive under the pretext of populism any idea that can enhance the political role of the electorate itself. Of course, we must also provide for appropriate guarantees in respect of referendums, namely that the principle of equality and free information is respected, that there is time for consultation and that the questions are clear and impartial, so that the referendum itself does not work and that the people are not turned from genuine popular expression into a passive mouthpiece of a preconceived government decision. Union law itself encourages referendums and, in the Treaty on European Union itself, Article 50. There was, therefore, for the first time, the right of a Member State to leave the Union, a right confirming the sovereign position of the states and, above all, of their citizens and proving the democratic quality of the European Union itself. Furthermore, our country has been left behind in this area in relation to most European countries, with few exceptions for states such as Germany and Cyprus, where the referendum is not in any way a constitutional one. In our country, of course, the previous government has made sure that it undermines the value of the referendum and thus gives the press and the rights in the New Democracy to publicly claim that such strengthenings of civil participation are harmful breaches, that is to say, to speed up political legitimacy for a morbid monopoly on government sovereignty that it claims. For it was the very leadership of SYRIZA and the way in which it managed the 2015 referendum, which threw water into the mill of overconservative doctrine the ruling party defends. They have therefore given rise to a campaign of undermining democracy for years, a democracy which, from a supreme ideal and maximum conquest, suddenly distorts it and appears to be something dangerous, as something unstable and as something unscrupulous. So it gave you the opportunity to get rid of your very recent declarations - and I'm talking about the period of the Memorandum of Understanding - that polyclimax allegedly takes the country out of the struggling and thus appear before the House and the people by talking about the tradition of division and instability, that is to say describe the Greeks as defective by nature. These trivial positions of social arsonism proposed by the neoliberalism yourself, which you were suffocating, but you did not dare to communicate, in fear of the outcry, unfortunately the SYRIZA himself allowed you to make flagships and allegedly normality. Therefore, instead of having a creative and productive debate today on the institutional enrichment of our democracy, instead of seeking together to strengthen the voice of the people - the people - a word that does not sound very often in here - we will live again on the day of the parliamentary marmot. As in the separation of Church and State, as in social and labour rights, we will be struggling for the interests of the citizens. And the government will be present at regular intervals, because in the end the Review will be carried out by its own majority. And its majority, unfortunately, moves in the footsteps of orbanism, since it does not wish, in the end, either a democracy of the many or a strengthening of the rights of the people. At the same time, it constantly invents internal enemies that are persecuting with mania to advertise in its controlled media its zero tolerance, a zero tolerance which, of course, never touches its high-profile regular counterparts, such as the majestics of the banks, which, after the recent scandalous change in the Criminal Code in terms of prosecuting the offence of bankers' infidelity, will enjoy the blessings of the government. So the government wants to reduce the participation of citizens in the control of the lawmakers and lawmakers, but also in the legislative initiative itself, precisely undermining the importance of the average citizen in the democratic structure. Ultimately, citizens should only be obedient and contemptuous, have short memory and low requirements, be debtless, to have to think only of their false debts in a format that his inspiration, the International Monetary Fund, has repeatedly rejected it as wrong. So these citizens want neoliberal logic, responsible, useful, only unwise to follow orders. And if the other people in history were always the ones who took us out of the pit, those who were against the regime, against oppression and the odds. These are, therefore, our heroes, surnames and anonymouss of the history that have been fighting - and struggling - for more freedom, more independence, more democracy. On the subject of the popular initiative in referendums and legislation, we are obviously 'in favour'. And we have already notified our proposals, which are moving as far as possible and giving some tonics of direct participation. With regard to the election of the President of the Republic, it is an obligation which bears heavy state symbolism. The President of the Republic is the guardian, the guarantor of the regime, a supra-party institution that embodies national and state unity and can act as a guarantor of national and political unity itself. This means, therefore, that its election should be disconnected by the wear and manipulation of any micropolitical pursuits. I will not, of course, extend to common lessons in our political history, which demonstrate this. The election shall not be affected and shall not be affected by the ordinary parliamentary procedure. The House continues its work in parallel to the elections for the President who are being held in an autonomously simple sequence of votes. In fact, in our pluralist model, the House never ceases to vote for the President. She's present until the end. Because after a third barbarous vote, she participates in the special parliamentary body of constituencies and elected citizens together with six hundred deputies, chosen by all the citizens elected. At this point, I would like to make our proposal up-to-date on the President's election. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At least sixty of them may, therefore, also propose a candidate at the first meeting of the body. The President of the Republic shall elect the candidate, who shall have assembled the absolute majority of the Special Consultative Council of Curators and Elected Citizens. And if necessary, they shall be activated with a five-day distance and subsequent votes excluding the last minority candidate. So, by strengthening democracy and the participation of the citizens, we do not ignore Parliament as a component of the civil society, since all three hundred, representatives of the respective Parliament, who together with the six hundred deputies, form a nine hundred electorate and elect a president with an absolute majority of four hundred and a half. Our care also ensures the united and consensual role that the institution must play, since it participates in an enlarged representation of two levels of the people. The democratic legitimacy of the President is thus strengthened. We must not forget that the President of the Republic is the regulator of the country. And the foundation of the constitution, according to Article 1(2), is popular sovereignty. There is therefore no constitutional retreat so that the final election will also take place with the participation of the citizens. With regard to the problem, which has been raised by New Democracy, the framework within which we are obliged to move this Article 30(1) stipulates that the President of the Republic is elected by Parliament, as defined in Rules 32 and 33, the Constitution is a strict regulatory text, but it is still a live text, adapting to the social treaty and the lessons of the same parliamentary practice, which has shown what it means to successive votes and early dissolution of the House. As soon as the nomination of the President of Parliament was deemed necessary, the proposed parliament took the view that the need to disconnect the President's election from the early dissolution of the House, and since the direction itself, logic, ratio of the parliament proposed, was to be followed by a direct election in the event of the inability of a parliamentary election, this means that if the revision in the direction of direct election finally prevails, the provision of Article 30(1) will simply become inactive. The same argument was used by Mr Javarras and in Article 41(5) that he should be reviewed. So the abstractness of the Parliament proposed to be reviewed and the provision of Rule 30 does not make direct election possible if the votes within Parliament are ultimately fruitless. In our political programme, moreover, the institution of the EPC runs horizontally on political issues and there is a bridge between the citizens and the areas of power in which neither integrated stateism nor regulated privatisation can provide solutions. At regular intervals, therefore, the PPCs are convened at conferences with a specific agenda. Policy proposals are put forward, the elected representatives and the other members of the EPC. They're asking questions and opposing them. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, Mera25 responds to the crisis of parliamentaryism with realism and respect for the institutions and their free and independent functioning. At the same time, it combines the feasibility with the adequacy. It is not called by accidental ideal the direct democratic city of our ancient country. We lend elements of our ideal, ideal and creatively integrate it into key points for our Constitution and for our political and state culture. We are stressing popular sovereignty without depriving us of representation. And that is genuine democratic patriotism. We have modern and functional responses where others meet deadlocks. So we will regain the dome of parliamentaryism and restore the reputation of the political system to the citizens, giving them an essential step, while bearing in mind that the Constitution is a historic text, as Cornelius Kastoriadis says, immersed in it. It calls it socio-historic, the meaning of which is constantly changing in order to adapt to the new economic, political and social conditions. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u168	The speeches of the rapporteurs and speakers have been completed. Before the special rapporteurs, who are in turn Mr Bougas, Mr Papaliou, Mr Kotsiaras and Mr Jackris, first spoke as a parliamentary representative, Mr Stylianides. However, Mr Stylianides, Mr Velopoulos' request was made. So Mr Velopoulos will be eight minutes before Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure, but since I have already reminded him that, after a debate of an hour and a half, we decided unanimously that no political leaders should intervene and have the right to speak on Monday before the vote begins. Of course, the Rules of Procedure do not say that. That is why a gentlemen's agreement was made, which broke the first day with Mr Varoufakis. Today Mr Velopoulos is asking for the floor. I can't refuse him. But if we are to make unanimous decisions and agreements with gentlemen and the heads of the parties "empty" their representatives who voted, as I said, at the Conference of Presidents, then we should not lose one and a half hours like last time. There's no reason. Mr President, Mr Velopoulos, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. I know you're just. Of course, we must apply the Rules of Procedure to all heads, not to some. I am talking about the Rules of Procedure, which we are sometimes in breach of, at times, more or less. Every time, however, it is infringed or translated, it is also reproached on the part of the Bureau. And I tell the President-in-Office ours, who is always noble to everyone. Let's actually go. I would not speak today, but I will speak, because today we had the Missens case. They grabbed, ate, oiled, weeded, left, acquitted. I remember the Koskottas case, the armaments case, the Siemens case, the NOVARTIS case. Nobody was punished. And we are now coming here and we are discussing how to elect the President of the Republic, if we need to be elected at a hundred and fifty-one, two or three hundred, when the citizens themselves see today's decision - not yesterday's - on the 'SIEMENS', while Christopher drinks coffee in Munich. I travel regularly. I met him last year in a coffee in Munich and laughed at us, with the MPs of the Greek Parliament. He was laughing! In fact, the man laughed and said to me: 'If they expect me to be tried, they are wrong'. The same will happen with NOVARTIS. Here we go. I'm telling you right now. Same! Because you don't understand anything. As a New Democracy, you hate the state that cannot be an entrepreneur. It's your logic. You hate the state that can't be an entrepreneur. Germany and America, however, do their own government jobs. See ‘SIEMENS’, because the State is behind ‘SIEMENS’. See Deutsche Bank and many other companies, whether they are state-owned or promoted and supported by the State, contrary to your logic. So I see in front of me: Caravella. It hasn't been spotted. He's been building, as far as I've learned, on the Syrian planet. We can't find him. Jean-Claude Oswald. He had a bracelet, that new modern one they do in America. The man took it out and disappeared. We don't know where he is. That is the state and you are talking about Constitutional Law, Constitution, to vote. Put some crooks in jail. Everybody's leaving. Everybody's going! All of a sudden, one morning. And I will not say now that it is the New Democracy that has left, while it has been prosecuted against him and from the airport it has been "lost" accidentally. Nor will I say about the previous ones. I don't care about the past. Believe me, the past is no longer my concern. I'm not one of those who hunt their shadows. I am interested in today and tomorrow, what we will do for Greece today and tomorrow. So all this is to a certain extent hypocritical and I am sorry. Sixty-four defendants. Twenty-two were convicted. The offences are such that everyone gets out. The offences have been dropped for all. "Official bribery, bribery in the private sector. Their prosecution is stopped because of limitations. They shall cease to be prosecuted on the grounds of limitations.' Now, listen, so we know what we're talking about. I am now starting to think that justice has a share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u170	Big part.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u171	Great. Excellent, Mr. Javaras. We cannot allow SIEMENS and all those involved to move freely today. We can't afford to get a cup of coffee in Munich and make us all laugh. He told me. We were sitting next to each other, drinking coffee and saying, "You're not a MP?" I say to him: 'Yes. He says to me: "If you find me, call me." That's not all. The state, Germany's justice, tried him first, so that Greece would not ask for a case in Greece. The state. So this is where the German state has a complicity. These are the crimes. Crimes related to the'skies' around Parliament and the political life of the country. I'm not saying they've been taken by politicians, I'm not saying that they've been taken by employees, nobody gets them after everyone's been acquitted. They're all innocent. In Greece there are so many scandals, but they are never doomed. Prosecutors exist until they go to court and then "lump" from there. All of this shows something very simple. That if we want to be taken seriously to the Greek Parliament, we must seriously look at the issue of criminal justice, our justice and how it should stand up to it. Because politicians are constantly legislating, as is now. You come here and fight about whether it's gonna be a hundred fifty, a hundred fifty one, a hundred twenty eight, a hundred thirty, a hundred forty. You say and we do not know that games are being played with the President of the Republic. You say we don't know that SYRIZA was forced to vote Paulopoulos. And he was forced to vote Pavlopoulou because they had underground routes. With caramanlicans, they were saying, with Kammenos, they were all saying. You say and we don't know that you voted Papua in the past, because there was your hostage. You say and we don't know that trade is going on in the President's face. That's a reality. We can't see her in here and we can't blind ourselves. It can't be done. It can't be done! This morning, SYRIZA filed an application for unconstitutionality. I'm sorry to laugh, but this is where people are laughing and crying at the same time. They have done the Rainbow Constitution, it has been violated many times. Some examples: The basic pillars of the so-called 'Katrugalos' anti-constitutional law. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, Anti-constitutional cuts imposed on two hundred and sixty thousand supplementary pensions. Anti-constitutional provisions abolishing gifts and allowances received by civil servants and officers. Anti-constitutional legislation, made in the government of SYRIZA, on the teaching of religious in primary, high school and high school. Why am I saying all this? They have acted unconstitutionally and are constantly coming and denounced today the New Democracy that it is anti-constitutional. Christ and God bless you! That's not happening. I mean, we're talking about hypocrisy. If it's not hypocritical, then it's their inability. They're incompetent. Not to say naughty or stupid. So we don't go that far. Of course, it is the oxymomile that I hear from the sympathetic otherwise, Mr Bakoyannis, to ask the citizens to vote if they gather five hundred thousand signatures. Mrs. Bakoyannis probably has a problem with numbers. Five hundred thousand signatures to gather are about 8%-9%. I mean, that's not happening anywhere. Five hundred thousand don't collect, you being 40 percent today. You can't collect five hundred thousand signatures. Who are we kidding? Italy, with sixty - two million, needs fifty thousand signatures for referendums. Skopje with ten thousand signatures. The Greek solution proposed thirty thousand signatures, I don't know if you'll accept it. I don't think you'll accept it, because you're afraid of the popular verdict. Because you all know that when you vote, you say things, but then you do something else. So you're afraid of this misfortune of the previous and later year that it'll find you in front of the referendums. You'll never do it. You may also put eight million votes, nine and ten and twenty-five votes. You won't. You do not want a referendum, from which the Greek people will question the choice of any government, which contradicts the legislation after the elections. And I say it to get this over with. Regarding the President of the Republic, let me say that I honestly cannot understand why we should put - random names - Velopoulos, Javarra, Paulopoulos, Damanaki, Diamantopoulou candidates. The President of the Republic has no competence. I disagree with that. I wanted a different system. From the first moment I've said it. I wanted the President of the Republic to be elected by the Greek people and to have responsibilities. So since we have this given given that the Greek Solution cannot overturn it, we are actually going to do so. Why should we put a political face with roots of ideological politics, save and well to make 'games'? You're gonna tell me, who are we gonna put? Do you want me to tell you names? Does Christos Pissaridis know him in here? I'm sure nobody knows him. He's the one who's got Nobel Economics. Listen, nobel economy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u172	He's a Cypriot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u173	And what does it matter? Can't we change it? How did you give Adentokubo a passport, Mr. Javarra? Here you give Hassan and Ibrahim passports Greek and identities of the Greek state. What does it mean to be a Cypriot in the origins? It's Greek. For me, Cyprus is Greece. You have to understand that. Cyprus is Greece! It's not Cyprus, it's not an independent state. It's my philosophy, my approach. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Next. Nicolas Negrepode, professor of MIT, founder of the MIT multimedia workshop. Dimitrios Nanopoulos, researcher of CERN, Paris, University of Harvard. Intelligence Simopoulos, astrophysicist. Stop Creemzis. George Paxinos. Yannis Giannopoulos. All these, Mr Colleagues, are known abroad. Velopoulos and Simopoulos and Paulopoulos and Damanaki know few. But these people know them in America. So there's an extrovert. And since they have no responsibilities, put such a man in, let the three hundred Members agree that he will represent the Presidency of the Republic. We don't need a good left-wing or right-wing president. These are unbelievable things, as well as taking part in this situation. It's unbelievable. The coup d'état! There are infinite names. If you want, we can give you names and choose from there. You can choose. I'm closing because time is pressing. I want to make an intervention. Today, friends and friends, government announcements about illegal immigrants. I'll tell you one more time. You go to 'blind', that's why you change your plan every week. Every week, the Prime Minister in his panic is trying to change his plan. Every week, new measures. Today you announced another plan. Until yesterday you said that "we will go to mainland Greece". Today you said that "we will also make hot spots on the islands again new, closed formula, but at the same time we will move to mainland Greece and others". The problem isn't that. I will say it rawly: "When the bath of your house is overflowing, you do not take the mop, close the tap, so the water doesn't run." The problem is the influx. Others are coming. Don't you understand? Don't you understand? They go to the inhabited islands. Close the NGOs. Turn them off! They are slave trade - I have told you a thousand times - and you invoke Article 78 of the Maastricht Treaty 'Emergency state' to end 'a fairy tale'. And go to the European Union and say that 'we are closing the borders, a state of emergency, we are invoking Article 78(3) of the Maastrich Agreement'. I would like to say this. Make it bilateral at last. Where's Mr. Dendias? Minister, where's Mr. Dendias? Why not go to Algeria, Morocco, Afghanistan, Pakistan making bilateral agreements with those who come here? They're not Syrians. It's from Afghanistan, Pakistan, etc. Make bilateral agreements. Press the European Union to ensure that the money is not taken by Erdogan, that these countries take it back. They won't take them back. Give them money. Baxesy has all known about it. But not Erdogan, those who want to take them back to get them. Where's Mr. Dendias? And the worst thing you are doing, Mr Javarra - and I say to you because you are particularly sensitive - is that within the new framework of a plan that you are preparing for illegal immigrants through the new measures you will make mosques in hot spots. You'll make me small Muslim villages - mosque enclosures. It took two hundred and four hundred years to get free, and it is the first government in Greece to do mosques again outside Thrace. This is the ferry, the beginning for the next ones that will come, because in the rest of the hot spots on mainland Greece you will fill mosques. Do you envision this Greece? This is what the patriots of New Democracy want, not the MPs and voters? Shall we fill mosques in Greece's seventy points, because there will be seventy hot spots? What are you doing? Jamia in Greece, when our church in Turkey, Agia Sophia, want Turks to mosque it? When they're doing an exhibition of bridesmaids in our Holy Wisdom? What are these things? Where are we? And don't tell me about human rights. Don't tell me that, because human rights are human rights. They're illegal. Illegally coming. They're not legal. You've changed everything. In my logic at least everything has changed. I want some seriousness from the New Democracy. Listen to the voice of reason. Listen to our voice. Go to New Anchorage hot spots next to F-16, in a mile and a half. F-16 is next to New Anchalos, Magnesia. What are you doing? How do you do that? Go to the fuel warehouses in Samos and make hot spots. What are you doing? We don't know who people are. They're not all quiet. We don't know who they are. Yesterday, he says, they arrested the imam of the jihadists in Athens. He's been arrested and he's in Greek jail. Don't you see that? At Thessaloniki's Asprovala, they're closing the streets to the traffic lights and they're robbing them. Do you know that? What are you doing? Uninhabited islands to end this. Because I've spent a lot of time and I have to finish here, I've got a series of last week's illegal immigrants hits. The officer went to check on the illegal immigrants in your area, Minister, and slayed him. He took the knife and went to take off his carotid carotid. Do we understand what we're doing? Do you understand that? Such love for poaching, I wasn't expecting her, you guys! Be Greek-language, not Greek-phobic. That's what troubles me and I say it with a lot of soul pain, because I've been to all the hot spots. I'll be in Sindo on Sunday. I've been everywhere. Talk to the residents. They're indignant. They're troubled. Don't you understand that? In conclusion, I will say about the fairy tale - and I will submit the relevant document in the Minutes - on the money given to us for illegal immigrants. Charilaos Florakis was saying that the lie is close to legs. The money provided, financial aid from the European Union, is about EUR 2.2 billion. The Greek state took 500 million euros. The Ministry of Health has taken 27.48m euros. These are the numbers of the European Union, which the Greeks have hosted in their hospitals too many of them, hundreds of thousands. We got 27 million. The International Organisation for Migration 343m euros, the High Commissioner for Immigration 742m euros and the rest of the NGOs. Christ and God bless you! The European Union is giving money and instead of taking the state, the ministers will do what the various turtles do, slaves will carry people to Greece. These are elements of the European Union and I am tabling them in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, the fairy tale that the European Union is paying for illegal immigrants is a lie. The state budget pays, as the Minister of Pylacakis said, for their medical care. The amount is EUR 30 billion in six years. Your Minister said so. The Greeks and Greeks, who listen to us in the gallery, gave 30 billion euros to pay Ibrahim and Hassan and my child to go to school to go to university. No, gentlemen! These are unauthorized things. First Greeks, first Greece and then anyone else, if I can feed, George, Nikos, Stavros. It's over. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] In closing - I took a little more time and I apologise - all Turkish channels, Mr Stylianides, my dear friend, who we know from the past, are speaking of Mrs Aksener. Do you know what Mrs. Aksener said? We have an outward-looking foreign policy deficit. We don't know what geoculturalism means. In Turkey, since yesterday, it is only for one reason, because the mayor of a Banking Bank told residents that "happily, we Islamed you" and all Turkish newspapers came out and speak of a Greek Christian minority in the Bank. Mr. Castanides, you know what I mean. You're from Pontius, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u174	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u175	Turks themselves are afraid of this. Where's our geoculture? Where is it that we talk to the Pontian language programs in Pontto today to convince them to put the Trojan horse on the back of the Turks? What they do with Thrace, the dirty toys that unfortunately play, the consulate there. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Unfortunately, friends and friends, I'm going to say this directly once more. We legislate quickly. We continue to make mistakes and not apply logic. There's no need for pluralism. He needs reason. It needs to give a signal to the Greek Parliament that it is interested in the Greek citizen, to be a participant, but also an accomplice to any of his choices. The citizen is only making him an accomplice to the crime by election. Well, you know, afternoon, you don't care. That's why Greeks get cut off every time. That's the reality. That's what we live with. You live in your world and you legislate wrong. Jamaica in Greece is not allowed to create any government again. It's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Lamia High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me inform you, children, that for as long as you stay in the Chamber, you will monitor the process of Revision of the Constitution, the basic law of the state, which is rarely done in the Greek Parliament, about every ten years. Good progress! The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Euripidis Stylianides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Our political system is based on the democratic principle of controls and balances. Parliamentary majority, absolute or relevant, and cooperation, the regulatory role of the President of the Republic, the principle of separation of powers, the instruments of parliamentary control, the democracy of the parties referred to in Article 29, but also democracy within the parties, are only some of the tools used by the party to prevent over-concentration of power in a centre, but without leaving an institutional void that could create insolence, instability or malfunction of the culture. In order to further strengthen this principle, the New Democracy proposes, in Article 68(2), an innovative change for the constructive establishment of committees of inquiry. This strengthens democratic accountability, gives substance and content to the opposition, minor or major, upgrades parliamentarianism, arms parliamentary control with a powerful tool, protecting transparency, restoring the credibility of the political system and better functioning of the principle of controls and balances. The committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen, ceases to be a means of judiciary for political controversy and moves into a valuable tool of strict parliamentary control in the hands of not only the government but also counter-population. It can be proposed by at least ten Members instead of sixty and, therefore, by the minor Opposition and voted by two-fifths of all Members, creating the conditions for truly functioning, multi-speaking and strong legislative power. Our proposal has a historical root. In Article 55 of the 1927 Constitution, where it already operates successfully in several European countries, such as Article 44 of the German Grundgesetz. It also applies to the European Parliament, Article 226 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, where one quarter of the members are sufficient to set up a committee of inquiry. The adoption by the Revision House of this New Democracy's proposal is the one-way back to the credibility of parliamentaryism and the effectiveness of our democracy. In relation to Article 32(4), with the 1974 referendum on the state system, Constantine Karamanlis put an end to instability, establishing the city of the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic. Greece, which experienced bloody wars, civil spasms, resolute bankruptcys, ethnic disasters, poverty and refugee and changed from independence in 1830 to the republic of 1974 to seven different states, thanks to the initiative of its leader and the decision of its people to establish the most solid, the most resilient and, despite the crises, the most mature democracy, that is, the longest democracy, in the history of the modern Greek state, the third Greek democracy that we are experiencing today. The fundamental balance of our culture, which has been living and growing steadily, despite the threats, problems and difficulties in the last forty-five years, has been the beginning to which I have referred, the principle of controls and balances, a principle which, by 1986, was established in the decisive role of the Prime Minister and the regulatory role of the President of the Republic, which were in complementary and mutual control. These distinct roles were defined in the 1975 Constitution wisely and harmoniously, in order to remove the country from crises it experienced in the past, due to conflicts between the powerful duplex of executive power, the king and the Prime Minister, conflicts that led us to even great national divisions. The regulatory role of the President of the Republic was spectacularly limited after the 1986 Review, perhaps satisfying on the one hand historically repellent, but leading on the other to a strong prime ministerial system. The strengthening of the respective prime minister, his important influence on the executive, legislative and, in some cases, judicial powers, have been the reason to develop other mechanisms of control and balance, such as the mass democratic parties referred to in Article 29, the active role of Parliament, the liberation of the media, the strengthening of justice, the establishment of the independent authorities. Nevertheless, the President of the Republic remained institutional, despite the limitation of his responsibilities, the symbol of unity of the nation and the opportunity for national discussions between the parties and a composition between the different concepts now represented in the national Parliaments. This result, as many times as it has been achieved, was not because of a constitutional rule, but because the respective political players demonstrated their due responsibility and the necessary maturity. Since the nine elections of the President of the Republic that we met in post-military terms, an agreement was reached between the two major power parties in 2000, 2005 and 2010, following elections. In the four elections, the President was supported either by the strong ruling party in 1975 or by the ruling party's partnership with smaller parties or independent MPs, such as in 1980, 1985 and 1995. The first election, which led to the early dismantling of the House, was the one after the 1986 Review, in the 1990 elections, where the will of the parliamentary majority and the then Chief of Constantine Mitsotakis was expressed in the first place because he sought to overcome the distortion of electoral law and create a powerless government. In the last two elections of the President of the Republic, in 2010 and 2015, the procedure for the election of the highest authority by the opposition was essentially worked out in order to achieve micro-party goals through the early withdrawal of the mandate of a democratically elected government, which happened in both cases, and in the case of Costas of Karamanlis and in the case of Antonis Samaras, they are at the most critical stage of a national effort to protect the country from an unscrupulous bankruptcy. In the case of the Government of Karamanlis, in 2009, the work of electing the President of the Republic was done by the then head of the opposition, George Papandreou, in a raw manner, eight months before the end of its term of office, with the statement that the President himself, who will be voted against before the elections, will then be voted on. In the same way, Alexis Tsipras said in 2014, in the midst of a titanic effort for the country's financial salvation, that he will propose a consensus president only after the Samara - Venizelou government has been elected to overturn it. These two recent cases demonstrate that our system, as has evolved, enables the highest rule to work with limited responsibilities to stop the democratic mandate, which the people gave to a party and a strong prime minister, with many responsibilities, to govern for four years. The distorting use of the rules of democracy to satisfy micro-party aspirations or personal political passions leads to the need to disconnect the political life of a democratically elected government from the brutal process of electing a President of the Republic, which can lead the country to early elections. This point, namely the decoupling of the President's election, is a point where almost all the political forces met and a majority of the two hundred and twenty-four Members were formed in the House. So the question that the Review House is being asked to resolve today is how that is to be achieved. SYRIZA supports the returning votes per month, with the aim of achieving a three-fifths majority until the completion of a six-month period, i.e. the possibility of even seven votes in Parliament if they are fruitless, then the President will be elected by the people. This proposal brings together a number of disadvantages. Firstly, it creates dangerous conditions of political instability in the country for six years at times that stability and national understanding may be necessary. Secondly, it conveys party controversy to the people, where it is certain that political dialogue will not turn around the President's personality, but around the current political issues, turning the President's election into a vote of confidence in the government or against the government. Thirdly, the strong democratic legitimacy of the directly elected President reinstates, from the back door, a kind of administration in the executive, which sought to eliminate the 1974 referendum and the 1986 Review. Here too, we need openness from the opposition to say that it wants to change its culture in this way, say it and ask it for approval. Fourthly, it challengs an institutional contradiction, to have a strong President legitimized by the people, but without essential responsibilities, which will continuously and humanely give him the withdrawal syndrome vis-à-vis the Prime Minister, with everything that that means in their relationship and in the functioning of the civil society. Fifthly, the direct election increases the cost of democracy and runs counter to a typical legal coma, which has not been approved by the House, that is, the revision of Article 30(1) of the Constitution, which explicitly provides for the election of the President by Parliament, and this also shows the degree of manipulation of the majority at the time and of today's Opposition. Corresponding issues of institutional voids and political instability also arise from the proposal adopted by the Change Movement for answerable and barren elections. The new Republic, which was in the past discussing the question of the direct election of the President by the people, has always linked it to one condition, the clear redefinition of its regulatory powers as a complementary and inter-electional pole of a fundamentally strong prime minister system, which needs to be re-established at the beginning of controls and balances, as we were talking about the institutionalisation of the Council of Heads of State, for example. Today, however, after the bad experience of 2009 and 2014, does it seem more realistic that the proposal we are putting forward in response to the dilemma'solving the democratically elected government for the election of a president without substantial responsibilities or election of a president by parliament and governmental stability?', 'powerful democratic legitimacy for a weak President, elected by the people, or a stable governmental cycle of the democratically elected government and elected President by Parliament, with a broad or simple majority?' The proposal enables the political forces in the first round of their efforts, with a sense of political responsibility and a spirit of national understanding, without institutional compulsion, to elect as President a strong personality, resonating to the hundreds of eighty and two hundred MPs. If this is not done, then politically the political forces that have swept it off are exposed, but without prejudice to the mandate given by the people to the government majority, and the government's cycle and political stability, at the expense of the country, are violently interrupted by extraordinary elections. The second round provides for the election of the President by an absolute or relevant majority, so that government instability, institutional gaps or additional costs are not created for democracy. We are prepared to remove the last provision on the elder, because, as we have said in committee, it is not strong in terms of arguments, as has emerged from the debate that we have, and this shows that we have no dogmatism in our approaches when we talk about the future of the country. This proposal reminds us historically of Article 67 of the historic Constitution of 1927, but it also reminds us of the applications that we also meet in several other European countries, where the final vote is held in the House or in a broader body with absolute or simple majority. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has sought and achieved political stability, national reconciliation and, more often than ever, political consultation. Parameters that have worked positively on this constantly improving political path have clearly been the institutions, the clear roles and rules, the clearly defined responsibilities of the state institutions, but above all the quality and maturity of the political protagonists, whenever they exist. In this very quality of the protagonists and the level of political culture is invested in the New Democracy's proposal, which leaves the parties with no sign of exaggeration in the first round of election and does not restore dysfunctional models to the executive power. The President of the Republic can and must remain the embodier and the symbol of unity of the state, consensus and understanding, but not because the Constitution is forcing it, not because the rules impose it, but because the political parties really realize it and seek it. Two words, Mr President, would allow me to say on the issues raised by SYRIZA in Articles 28, 44 and 73. The historic development of the direct democracy of ancient Athens in parliament has been inevitable for practical and substantive reasons. The large social groups created in modern democracies make it practically disreputable, economically unresponsive and politically problematic the implementation of a direct democracy in the pattern of ancient Athens, even if this application attracted digital features and justified the saying of once Vice President Al Gore of the United States that the internet is the electronic avenue of returning to the classical democracy of ancient Athens. A sign of modern application that we can study is California, the United States and Switzerland, where many issues are directly decided on by the citizens. The supporters of modern e-democracy claim that the greater responsibility goes on to citizens, the more they are trained to decide more responsibly. It is, though, isn't it? The pursuit of a return to direct democracy with popular legislative initiatives and generalised referendums - the first we are discussing it, but I stress, in the second part - can potentially wake citizens up and make them more active, but does not ensure the correctness of their decisions. Apart from the demagogues of the past, which are now not easy to locate or to be extremized by the Church of the Municipality, the difficult, modern dangers are also being perpetrated. And I mention a few concerns: Who raises the question in the referendum? Because an intelligently shaped question ensures or manipulates the answer. How and how quickly can a wrong popular decision be corrected with strong democratic legitimacy, which could threaten our state entity, our national security, or our social peace? How much does a direct decision-making process cost in an economy with problems that must be flexibly, quickly and efficiently? Who and how does it guarantee full access to the Internet as an individual right when we talk about e-democracy within the meaning of Article 5A(1) and (2) of the Constitution? Who guarantees full technical access to Wi-Fi and fibre across the country, the possibility of buying computers from the most deprived citizens, their ability to use them from digital illiterates, to which usually the older age belongs? Who also guarantees protection from "fake news", false news that runs foreign centres or hackers online, namely modern demagogues, when the well-armed advanced democracies, such as the United States, cannot already be protected? Tie the WikiLeaks case, or remember the violation of personal data on Facebook on the eve of the presidential elections in the USA. We do not, however, need to go away to see the dangerous aspects of a single media-democratic system. In my opinion, it is enough to look at the 2015 demagogic referendum. It was quickly proclaimed under Article 44(2) of the Constitution by Implementing Law 4023. He posed a vague question, which was raised in the context of fiscal policy, while this is forbidden by the Constitution and even put it in English, not even in Greek. He worked for party interest in the institution of the referendum, left little time for public consultation and political debate. It caused polarization, intense division of Greek society. He did not anticipate the consequences of the choices. And finally, it has led to the implementation of a political countermeasure contrary to what the people have approved, which forced SYRIZA to return to elections, unloading half its executives and seeking the democratic legitimacy of a rational solution that would not destroy the country. This adventure, which cost around EUR 100 billion in the national economy, has shaken people's confidence in the institution of the referendum, which saw it work micro-party and internally, and then restored the responsibility of decisions in the institutions of classical representative democracy, namely the elected government and Parliament, so that we do not experience a national disaster. We can see similar experiences in Latin America or Germany as well. However, the labelling of the negative aspects of a one-dimensional, direct-democratic system does not mean that we must completely exclude some directly democratic tools which may complement and strengthen our democracy by establishing the principle of controls and balances and by encouraging citizens to become more active, but without jeopardising the dominant role of our Parliament, which is composed of representatives and not of representatives of the people, namely people who are elected not to become involved, but to decide on the basis of their conscience. This ideal combination of the Greek Constitution focuses on both Article 44, which provides for a referendum on critical national issues and a serious social issue, apart from the budgets - since in both cases Members decide - but also on Article 29 where parties' democracy and democracy are provided for in the parties. A more direct initiative by the citizens to legislate could perhaps be discussed here and we are receptive to having this debate. In no case, however, can we escape by completely releasing referendums that do not lead anywhere, but devour populism. This combination that I described to you in Greece forms an environment of semi-immediate parliamentary democracy, which can produce effective fruit, as long as what I described as rules operate from top to bottom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u178	We shall proceed with the list of special rapporteurs and I shall invite Mr Ioannis Bouga from New Democracy to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, it would be advisable to say to the next two three speakers who follow in order to prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u180	They're nominated by the parties, after all. Then there is Mr. George Papaliou from SYRIZA, Mr. George Kotsiaras from New Democracy and Mrs. Theodora Jacki from SYRIZA. Immediately afterwards, we will be on the list of speakers, unless a parliamentary representative asks to intervene. Here, Mr. Bouga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall confine myself to Rule 32 concerning the election of the President of the Republic. The provisions of Article 32 of the Constitution, concerning the election of the President of the Republic, are of fundamental importance, due to the constitutional provision for the dissolution of the House, in the event of a non-election of a President who, in the past, has been said several times - led to the use of the procedure at issue, on the basis of party responsibilities and electoral strategies. The current constitutional provision seeks to achieve the broadest possible parliamentary consensus in the face of the President of the Republic, as well as the direct association made by the Constitution between the role of the President of the Republic and the form of the constitution, that is to say, it is no coincidence that these provisions have been considered as the lid of the Revision of the Constitution. The choice of the reform legislator in 1986 restored the presiding character of the constitution so that the President of the Republic symbolizes the unity of the nation and does not exert political influence. The importance of this Review - I am talking about the 1986 Review - is great, mainly because the right to early dismantling of the House has been removed, until then, by the President of the Republic, invoked by the notorious "harmony with the popular feeling". Until then, of course, this provision had not been used. Since then, the President of the Republic has been the Head of State, but without any substantial powers under the Constitution. The discretionary power of the President of the Republic in our Constitution is strictly limited and may not justify the constitutional upgrading of the presidential election. The anticipation of the early dissolution of the House is thus in complete contradiction with the objective of the consensual election of the President and his super-party nature. In fact, in specific cases, referred to by previous speakers, the spirit of the Constitution was completely altered. Instead of a good consensus between the political forces in the face of the President of the Republic, we have reached the other end: Opposition took advantage of his election as a quasi-majority right without being given to it by the Constitution, of course, in order to cause the dissolution of the House prematurely and thus to force a government's political life to be stopped, so that political change can be achieved. It was mentioned by our Parliamentary Representative that from the nine elections of the President of the Republic, which took place between 1975 and 2010, the parties reached agreement in the selection of the President of the Republic only in three cases. The need, therefore, to decouple the appointment of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament has already been made, on several occasions, both in the 2001 Review Procedure and in that of 2008, without the relevant provisions being finally revised. Finally, we believe that the time has come for this great institutional change. After all, this change is now required by the great majority of Greek society. The result of the recent elections has shown in particular the consensus of the largest part of society on this institutional reform. The New Democracy had expressly announced its intention to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament. The sole purpose of the provision of Article 32 - the 'ratio' in legal terminology - is of course not to provide the opposition with the opportunity to cause early dissolution of the House whenever it deems it appropriate, subjecting to the relevant democratic party connections, but to highlight, to the supreme office of the President of the Republic, persons with the widest possible consensus. The President of the Republic has a supra-party role and embodies national unity. The scripture and interpretation of the provision in question, which clearly stipulates as the reason for the dissolution of the House, that the President of the Republic is unable to be elected, even for what is essentially irrelevant to his election, does not, of course, serve the national unity nor is it consistent with the so-called 'internal logic' of our parliamentary system. Parliament's democracy, ladies and gentlemen, must go beyond the methods of the use of the constitutional provisions and the valuation of the institution, which, as has been demonstrated, are taking advantage of the letter of the Constitution to violate its spirit. Through these traumatic experiences for the country, the reality is that the micro-party strategies, which have nothing to do with the institution of the President of the Republic, have completely dominated. The aim was, at all times, the artificial challenge of a political deadlock, so that the country could be brought to an early election, which, of course, has proved itself by democratic principles and is yet another form of serious misuse of power. The editorial legislator was aiming at consensus, so that we would not lead to strange manipulations. Today all Parliament's wings agree that this falsification, in essence, of the Constitution must be brought to an end. It is important that, by a large majority, Article 32 comes for review in this Review House, because the political forces of the place have come to the conclusion that the vicious cycle of overthrowing political normality, which was not the aim of the Constitution, is time to stop. So today we have the common will, which is the direction which the House has inherited us in the most prosperous way. The question, therefore, which we have to deal with, is what is the best way to achieve this institutional change. In accordance with Article 30 of the Constitution, the President of the Republic shall be the regulator of the constitution and shall be elected by the Parliament for a period of five years. In the sense that the President of the Republic regulates the functions and guarantees the harmonious coexistence of powers in the city, his role as a regulator is conceptually defined. In our tradition, namely, it guarantees the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic, which is replaced by the so-called presidential systems, where the powers and role of the President differ substantially because they are not regulatory but clearly governmental. President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report. The proposal of the Officerial Representation attempts to reconcile directly with the indirect election of the President and therefore presents important problems relating to the functioning and form of our culture. It introduces a new'semi-presidential' system, since, legally speaking, there are national states either directly or indirectly elected by President. It is proposed here by the Civic Opposition something intermediate, an inexpensive one, we would say, since it is not going to be accepted, that SYRIZA should fulfil both positions. In other words, it is proposed that a presidential model of civilisation, which would create legal imbalance and further division of political life, be applied to us. In particular, the proposed review by the SYRIZA, namely direct recourse to the people after possible successive insidious votes for the election of the president, may lead to the awarding of a government, possibly the awarding of political life. It will provoke the opening of a pre-election presidential campaign in search of wider party majorities than any candidate president, who - I remind you, because it must be the basis for every revision proposal - it is not intended for our citizens to govern, but to guarantee it. The President shall, as you know, exercise the executive power with the government, but power in the Parliamentary Republic, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 1, shall be elected indirectly by Parliament. They are worth the above and for an additional reason: in SYRIZA's arguments, the President's legitimacy will not be directly derived from legislative power, but will be asserted by the executive. Why is it that the President of the Republic seeks to strengthen? Is the House not enough with its genuine representation by the Greek people? Ladies and gentlemen, because I do not want to abuse time, I come to the proposal of the New Democracy, which is clear. We say that after four fruitless efforts, which are needed for the first two two two two two votes, after a hundred and fifty ones, we must address a next vote to the same House and, between the two majority, it is considered that the President of the Republic has been elected, who has gathered the majority. The counter-project is formulated: How can it be possible for the President of the Republic to symbolise unity and, at the same time, to be elected by a simple majority? The President of the Republic, with the specific constitutional features which have been attributed to him today, responds precisely to this logic of a simple majority. It is, in other words, something that corresponds to its constitutional powers, and it also does not pose a risk to civilisation because of the increased legitimacy that the direct folk mandate could provide. So his election is a matter of political practice. Furthermore, the representatives of Officerial Representation claimed that our proposal to be elected in the final vote, not by the increased vote, but by the relevant majority of Members, is very depriving the President of the Republic of any supra-party character, which is consistent with his role as regulator of the constitution. According to the Qualified Opposition, that is to say, it does not deprive the President of the Republic of any supra-party nature to address the people and to ask for his vote in an election, atypical party struggle against another candidate from another party, but it weakens his possible election by parliamentarians. We, ladies and gentlemen, believe in the separation of powers, which of course complement each other, but also balance out. The way this is achieved is by the rule of law and legislative decisions of the representative body on any act of executive authority. Thus, legislative power has become, as has been said,'sine qua non insurance' which prevents arbitrary action and thus strengthens and shields the fundamental principle of the rule of law. The government has headed the Prime Minister, who depends on the confidence of the parliament. Accordingly, the President of the Republic as a direct body of the executive with specific powers must be elected by legislative power, not directly addressed to the electorate to be elected. It must not, in other words, be equal to Parliament, but it must be under its control. The election of the President of the Republic by the House is part of the broader context of representative democracy and our parliamentary system and its legal position is shaped by the combination of individual elements and, in particular, by the parliamentary nature of the culture, the way it is elected, the specific responsibilities and the extent of its responsibility. The proposal for the immediate election of the President of the Republic entails a peculiar and dangerous political conflict which cannot and must not be accepted. The proposal of the New Democracy shall be fully in line with the regulatory powers of the President and shall guarantee the uninterrupted functioning of the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u182	I give the floor to Mrs. Theodora Jackson from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic, as regulated by Article 32 of the Constitution, which may lead to the dismantling of the Parliament within ten days of the third vote, provided that the three-fifths of the total number of Members of Parliament are not achieved, seeks, in the current constitutional theory, to achieve the broadest possible consensus on the face of the President of the Republic and the election of persons with supra-party recognition. It is true that, at least until 1986, until the Review by which the responsibilities of the President of the Republic were significantly reduced, it was fully justified in view of the goodwill which he had until then. However, following the review of 1986, not only does the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic be sufficiently justified by the status quo and its responsibilities as regulator of the constitution, since the President of the Republic cannot dismantle Parliament, nor exercise any political political influence, but it is also considered to be inconsistent with the scope of its powers and, in essence, acts as a mechanism which does not serve the pursuit of real and genuine consensus, but rather is extinguished towards the political conflict and the early interruption of the parliamentary term. In practice, it proved very quickly that the threat of early polling rather than acting as an incentive for the processes between parties to thrive for consensus in the face of the President of the Republic was used by a majority, but also by the opposition, as a means of exercising party policy. The argument, used by Constantine Mitsotakis, 10 years after the presidential election of 1990, is characteristic to justify his attitude at the time as leader of the majority party of the New Democracy, who sought elections in order to promote self-government. Since the Constitution provides for the possibility of the election of the President of the Republic to take the country to elections, it is certain that all parties will make use of this possibility if politically they believe they can lead the country to elections. It was also expressed by part of the theory that the opposition's refusal to participate in the presidential election, precisely in order to proclaim presidential elections, not only does it not constitute circumvention of the Constitution, but it acts as a counterweight to the current government majority and the Prime Minister's superpowers. It is ultimately a new reading of the disputed arrangement, which reverses the presidential election from an area of consensus to an opposition weapon within the party opposition. The result is what has been said so far. In the nine elections to the President of the Republic, held from 1975 until today, only in three, in 2000, 2005 and 2010, the agreement of the two parties of power took place in the President's face, either because in the case of 2000 and 2005, the opposition parties then considered that it was not in their interest to hold early elections at that time or because, in the case of 2010, the PASOK had the necessary majority, that is to say, the number of votes required for the presidential election, without being served, as we all understand, the purpose of the broader consensus, but for reasons of purely short-term parties. This resulted, according to Antonis Manitakis, in the annihilation of every constitutional self-determination of the institution of the President of the Republic, his party conflict and the weakening of his symbolic unified and supra-party speech, circumventing the Constitution and using the presidential election to meet the timely party objectives. However, I want to see what the possibilities are and what is proposed by the parties in changing the way the President of the Republic is elected, which is unanimous in all that it needs to be changed. Firstly, there is the possibility of direct, direct election of the President of the Republic by the electorate. I would like to stress that the direct election of the President of the Republic by the people does not itself constitute a alteration to the parliamentary character of the constitution. This is the case in most cases, in Ireland, Austria, Finland and Portugal, where it is accepted that the direct election of the President of the Republic does not abrogate the parliamentary character of the constitution, unless it is combined with other institutional areas and interventions at the level of the Constitution. For example, this would be the case with the constitutional declaration of the President of the Republic's ability to dismantle the House at the appropriate time, that is, when it comes to its free assessment and without other conditions. This provision would indeed directly affect the provisions of Article 1(1) of the Constitution, in conjunction with Article 35, which provides for the responsibilities of the President of the Republic, as it would alter the culture and lead to a semi-Presidential system. However, I believe that this possibility of direct election is inconsistent with either the specific responsibilities of the President of the Republic, nor with the strategic direction of transition to a political system with more consensus and less conflicts, but also with the search for people to be elected with a mild unified profile that could contribute to the dismantling of extreme political conflicts in specific political or institutional circumstances, since candidates who come to the elections will be at least two and there will be situations of conflict. Secondly, the proposal is to entrust the election of the President of the Republic to a joint special assembly set up by Members, representatives of local government or representatives of other social bodies. I believe that this view should be rejected as experimentation with unseen results and it is no coincidence that this system is clearly not implemented by any central European country, the family of which is our constitution. Only in the case of Italy has the option added, let me say, to the electorate of the President of the Republic, who is purely parliamentary, three natural persons and three citizens. The third alternative is for the President of the Republic to be elected by a qualified majority, and if this is not achieved after one or two elections, for the third vote to turn the increased majority to a relative majority of the total number of Members. This proposal is also proposed by the New Democracy. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that this alternative option of electing the President of the Republic further weakens the symbolic strength and prestige of the institution, strengthening the prospect of one-party support and the one-party origin of the President of the Republic and thus exacerbates the majority and pre-central character of the political system. The parallel proposal for a well-known increase in its responsibilities, such as the convening of the Political Heads of State or Government, the appointment of the Presidents of the independent authorities and the supreme judiciary and the referral of a draft adopted for reasons of constitutionality or incompatibility with European law, despite the fact that it does not conflict with the nature of the constitution as President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic, is not considered to be inconsistent with the weakening of its symbolic role, if this is shown by the relative majority of the total number of Members. Fourth alternative, which remains, is the proposal of the SYRIZA which proposes to achieve an increase of 2/3 of all Members in the first two votes and, if this is not achieved, an increased majority of 3/5 of all Members in repetitive elections, if necessary, until six months have elapsed since the start of the election process. And if, after a six-month period has elapsed and since none of the votes are held by the required 3/5, the President of the Republic is elected by the people. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the SYRIZA proposal seeks, on the one hand, to avoid the provocation of early elections for short-term reasons of party feasibility and, on the other, to ensure the consensus of a supra-party President of the Republic. I know the opposite in this proposal, which is made by the parties, namely the risk of an incomplete, endless and dead-end repetition of votes, without the required majority being achieved. However, I would like to stress that such a choice, which would be indicative of an immature political system, would entail significant political costs for parties that would take the responsibility of an endless, dead-end process. This possibility, i.e. political costs, will be the strong incentive that the political system needs to consent to the face of the President of the Republic so that this does not lead to institutional deadlocks. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is a positive one, even if the majority required is not reached, and until the election of the new President is still in office, the outgoing President. In any case, what is seen in the debate on this thematic section is that almost all the political forces converge on the need to revise the provision in Article 32 of the Constitution in the direction of disconnecting the presidential election from the possible dissolution of Parliament and the conflicting mediation of parliamentary elections if after the third vote on the President's election the necessary majority is not achieved. The disagreement between the various groups was made with the majority to be achieved in order to elect the President of the Republic. The proposal of the New Democracy, the President may be elected in the fourth ballot, not by the enhanced vote, but by the relative majority of the total number of Members, deprives the President of the Republic of super-party character - which is consistent with his role as a regulator of the constitution - which allows him to remove the conflicts between the executive and the legislative power, namely between the government and the parliament, which, as I said, does not change, since the powers do not change and make him a party leader, that is to say, a party leader. Furthermore, this choice, i.e. the election with the relevant majority, is clearly inappropriate for the current situation, since the President of the Republic is a symbol and symbolizes the unity of the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the declared political decision on the form of the constitution, which meets the consent of all of us, is the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic. It is a system that historically worked in Transmigration in a perfectly institutional way. The President-in-Office of the Council, since it is a common place for the status of a parliamentary order, must not be altered by constitutional initiatives which may result in an appeal to the civilisation of the President-in-Office. The election of the President of the Republic by a short majority means reduced democratic legitimacy, reduced social acceptance and a reduced status for the President, while his direct election by the electorate, while at the same time strengthening his or her responsibilities, results in a profound deterioration of his or her culture and an annulled his or her historically proven functionality. Both the first, that is to say the election of the President by the short-term parliamentary majority, and his election by direct recourse to the electorate, while at the same time strengthening his responsibilities, constitute a radical change in the first and subversive political change, the second, which even changes the nature of the constitution. Direct election by the people, ladies and gentlemen, is being discussed in the light of repeated attempts to elect and only as a strong incentive to achieve the necessary increased consensus, given the need for a stable parliamentary administration, particularly in crisis situations such as those experienced and experienced by our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic is not a person. It is an institution that symbolises the unity of society, of the nation and of the political system. Therefore, decoupling his election from the call for early elections, which are blackmail, and his election by a genuine parliamentary majority, would constitute institutional development and democratic modernisation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u184	Mr Georgios Kotsiras has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I first feel the honour, as a Member of Parliament and as a lawman, to participate in this process, the highest parliamentary procedure for the revision of the Constitution, I begin by referring to the basic thinking of the New Democracy in the context of the review process, which is the institutional shield of our culture, the parliamentary stability and the creation of a modern model of effective democracy. Therefore, the reform and modernisation of the country's Charter should be carried out in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the constitution, in the context of the definition that the House has put forward, in the context of the provisions that have come to the Revision House to vote on. I shall start with the revision of Article 68(2). Our proposal for a revision of this article comes mainly to facilitate parliamentary minority voting and strengthen its rights and control work. This amendment clearly makes it easier to operate an important mechanism of parliamentary control, such as the committees of inquiry. The Committee of Inquiry shall henceforth cease to be a privilege only for the majority. This amendment is a great innovation, which no party has so far dared to propose and which promotes pluralism and strengthens minority. Obviously, what committees of inquiry the majority or opposition will propose will be judged by the parties in the House in question on the basis of the total predictions of this provision. Support for minority rights is a fundamental democratic debt, which ensures the smooth functioning of parliamentary life, which must be strengthened and stimulated. I shall set out a specific example here from our modern parliamentary history. In 1986, the New Democracy, as a political opposition, proposed the setting up of a committee of inquiry into irregularities in the management of public money. The proposal, after discussion, was voted against by a hundred and fifty-six Members and was voted for by a hundred and twenty-five Members, who, according to the current wording of Article 68(2) of the Constitution, constituted the required two-fifths majority (2/5) of all Members to set up this committee of inquiry. The proposal was rejected at that time, according to the opinion of the then co-chairment and the government, that a parliament decision is required to set up a committee of inquiry, which is taken by a majority of the Members present, which may not be less than two fifths (fifths) of the total number of Members. On the contrary, according to the opinion that the New Democracy has backed up at the time, a committee of inquiry is enough to vote in favour of this proposal from the two-fifths (fifths) of all Members, namely the majority of twenty Members. The version of the New Democracy's military opposition at the time was consistent with the relevant theory's theory's views at that time. In fact, on the occasion of a question addressed by the late Constantine Mitsotakis to professors of Constitutional and Public Law in May 1987, I refer to their names Begler, Cassimatis, Corsica, Manesis, Mavrias, Papadimitriou, Raikos, Skouris and Tsatsos - very interesting scientific considerations have been developed, with most of the opinions convening on the fact that in order to establish a committee of inquiry into foreign policy and national defence, it is sufficient that the proposal of one fifth of the Members of Parliament is to vote a hundred and twenty-fifths, i.e. two fifths (fifths) of the total number of Members. Of course, the interpretation has remained to date as it had been established and was initially interpreted. Beyond this historical regression, in order to demonstrate the democratic nature of the proposed amendment to Article 68(2), we recall - as the general rapporteur of the majority has done - the same view as the great German sociologist Max Webber. In these theoretical attempts, which are rightly intended to prevent the admissibility of a motion for a resolution by a majority of committees of inquiry, the New Democracy's proposal, by amending the relevant provision of Article 68(2) on the basis of which, from now on, the parliamentary minority may constitute two committees of inquiry, provided that the motion of at least 10 Members is voted in favour of it by two fifths (fifths) of all Members. Here it is worth pointing out the possibility of submitting this proposal and by only ten Members, which means that even small in power parties and groups will be able to submit a proposal for a committee of inquiry, in effect turning an institution that had taken a negative view in the past as a way of parliamentary control which is equal to the parliamentary history of our country. I would like to make a brief reference to Articles 37(2), 38.1 and 84.2 proposed by SYRIZA in its review proposal, assuming, as I have pointed out in committee, that these amendments are more problematic and complicated than resolve institutional problems that may arise in the course of a parliamentary procedure. In particular, the proposal referred to in Article 37(2) concerning parliamentary status is perhaps overlooked the most important aspect to be taken into account in order to answer the question of 'parliamentary or non-parliamentary Prime Minister', because it is not, and should not be, solely the parliamentary status of Prime Minister, but rather the guaranteeing of the principle of declared. The purpose of constitutional welfare cannot be the "a Priori" exclusion of those who do not have the parliamentary status, but the confirmation of the Parliament's confidence in the face of the Prime Minister and its democratic legitimacy. In this respect, the majority of the constitutionalists - see: Tsatsos, Venizelos, Chrysanogonos, Tsakirakis, Vlachopoulou - and in any case the two cases of extra-parliamentary Prime Ministers, Xenophon Zolota and Luke Papademos, cannot be judged either that they have been unconstitutionally predictable or that they have performed their duties in a non-constitutional way. I would like to make the same criticism at the heart of the procedure in the SYRIZA proposal for a constructive vote of distrust, which should necessarily be accompanied by a proposal to appoint a new Prime Minister. We believe that this proposal also contributes more to the non-stability of parliamentary life than to the stabilisation and smooth conduct of a parliamentary process and the governmental stability that each country needs. The motion of censure against the government has the meaning of its disapproval of its general policy or its specific policies. But here, there is a transfer of the initiative to form a government that will call for Parliament's confidence in the opposition, by bypassing the majority parliamentary group to propose a Prime Minister, who will then take the exploratory mandate to form a government. I therefore believe that this proposal will rather lead to political uncertainty, rather than to resolve the issue that arises from the acceptance of the motion of censure against the government, which, in any case, expresses a displeasure and a problem with regard to government policy. In fact, I think that the adoption of this proposal will eventually result in a motion of censure not because there are real reasons against the government, but because for reasons of its own, and even for reasons of impression, an opposition party that wants to support a third person will want to create conditions of imbalance and questioning to the government's party, because it is undoubtedly a target - and it must always remain - government stability. Before closing, Mr President, I would also like to make a reference to the amendment to the article on the President of the Republic, because in any case it was analysed in detail by both the rapporteur-general and the parliamentary representative and by opposition colleagues. The so-called criticism of one-party support for the President of the Republic is contradictory, because there is provision here for a multi-party procedure before the rule of a democratic majority to give the solution, where there is a total margin in these votes for a multi-party and multi-party designation of the President of the Republic. And only when the margins are exhausted, and there is a need to avoid micro-party manipulations which have been referred to above by other colleagues, then the democratic majority principle is invaded to give a solution and to protect institutions and individuals from opportunistic calculations of the minority. In any case, they have been expressed here for the great objective pursued by this regulation, namely the disconnection and non-industrialisation of the institution of the election of the President of the Republic and its disconnection from the early recourse to the polls, opinions of approved constitutionalists who do not, in general, belong to the New Democracy area. Georgios Kasimatis has argued that if a party declares that it will not vote no candidate for the Presidency of the Republic in order to lead the country to elections on the grounds that the country needs a new government, it causes the early dissolution of the House for reasons that the Constitution does not allow or allow, and furthermore, the power to dismantle the House is sceptical. On the other hand, Dimitrios Tsatsos and Costas Chrysogonos have argued that when a party in advance declares that it will not vote for the President-in-Office appointed by other parties to provoke elections and after his objective is achieved, then a settlement of the Constitution becomes an interpreter of the Constitution, as its deepest meaning is contemptuously despised. These are words of people and scientists who agree with me, in my view, the main objective that this proposal serves and the dismantling of circumstances which have in the past led to the work of a major institution, such as the President of the Republic. The proposal of the New Democracy as a whole serves the institutional armour of the Constitution and institutions, the parliamentary life and the stability of the government, in order to smoothly complete its term and not to become a bounty often of micro-political and opportunistic impressions, which can be created and will in future create many more problems than anyone who can imagine it at the time, but the history of the future will always be much more stringent. I therefore believe that in these circumstances the New Democracy proposal is a proposal in the right direction. It shields the Constitution and the institutions and takes the country forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, nine members of a group of trained lawyers from Berlin. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Lamia High School (B.). The House welcomes you and wishes you good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I must tell you that today, in the time you have come to Parliament, you are following a rare process, about every ten years repetitive. We are talking about the debate on the amendment of the Greek Constitution. I want to say from what I see here that you have in front of you in the government headquarters, and one - I do not see another - from Phthiotis, Mr Staikoura, who is also the Minister of Finance. Good progress! Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a special rapporteur for SYRIZA, I shall refer to the proposal for a revision of Articles 42.2, 73.1 and 28.2 of the Constitution, which refer to the unity of the institutions of direct democracy. Democracy was born in ancient times as direct. However, it could not survive because of the size of the then state entities. In later times it was reborn as representative, with Parliament being a political micrograph of the trends in the people. Today the Parliamentary Republic, which operates in an environment of globalisation, rapid technological changes and concentration of wealth in the hands of a few, has signs of fatigue. Principles contained in the Constitution in practice remain empty, lacking substance. The domination of "techno-democratic" ideology has led to some kind of post-democracy, through the continuous removal of fields from the material of democratic political confrontation. On the basis of the dominant neoliberal concept, politics is subordinated to the economy and democratic confrontation to technocratic truth. Democracy is in this way anemic, much more so that the delegation of the commons to representatives is its dominant element. In this context the state mechanism itself, private bodies, supranational organisations, independent authorities, impose policies presented as a one-way route. It is therefore necessary to return politics to the forefront, to democratise the state, to obtain substance and to produce results for people and public intervention. In this direction they can support and strengthen institutions of direct democracy and initiatives. In the context of representative democracy there can be institutionalised, without altering the representative nature of democracy, but supporting it creatively and enriching it in a way that democracy becomes "democratic" and more effective, since competences are transferred to the consultation and decision of the citizens. The current constitution states that the foundation of the civil society is popular sovereignty and that all powers stem from the people. The reference to popular sovereignty, first of all, is of symbolic importance. On the basis of the representative authority, the people's powers as a electorate are limited to electing representatives either centrally in Parliament or at regional and local level. But people's sovereignty must also be given substance. The crisis in democracy has led to dismantling even the parliamentary system. Many citizens, feeling disfellowshipped and alienated from the political background, feel that decisions are made for them without them and cannot affect political things. Even the rights of election and election tend to be largely denounced. The great and growing abstention of the citizens of the exercise of the electoral right proves this, as well as the lack of interest - especially among young people - to participate as candidates in representative-type proceedings. In announcing the initiative for the Constitutional Review, then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras established a consultation group on the revision of the Constitution, which organised discussions, lively and electronically, with institutional bodies, initiative groups and citizens. This initial consultation also reflects the direction in which citizens should be involved, even before the institutional reform process of the Constitution begins, so that it is not just a product of the special and political, but also of the people themselves. On this basis, the Constitutional Review initiative aims to enhance democracy, strengthen people's sovereignty as the foundation of the civil society, strengthen the institutions of the parliamentary culture, against external and institutional centres, so that politics is not plunged by purely neutral technology spirit and hence, it is not a matter of allegedly neutral technocratics but of the people, and of course, of activation and of course of substantial direct intervention by citizens in the field of political decision-making. It is clear that recourse to procedures, through which the people are given a direct decision and therefore with validity, shows confidence in the people, the people's criterion and, ultimately, the popular will. Under the current Constitution, citizens' direct participation in the field of legislative power is limited to consultation prior to the legislative process, but also during the legislative process through the institution of hearing the bodies. In addition to this, SYRIZA's constitutional review proposes: The supplementation of Article 44(2) in order to establish the institution of the referendum on a popular initiative. It could be called on for critical national issues at the request of five hundred thousand citizens, who have the electoral right or for digitised bills, which regulate a serious social issue, apart from budgetary issues. This proposal in the proposed parliament received 152 votes. The referendums generally do not constitute new institutions and reforms, they also apply under other constitutional regimes. Secondly, the addition to Rule 73(1), in order to establish the constitutional foundation of the people's legislative initiative, namely to recognise the possibility - with this proposal - to a hundred thousand citizens who have the electoral right to submit proposals for legislation, which will be introduced into this House for discussion, preparation and, where appropriate, voting. This proposal was received in the nominee parliament of sixty-eight votes. The position of a number of New Democracy colleagues that the New Democracy can and must therefore vote in favour of this proposal is welcome, but from what I have understood so far, it is not yet a decision of the governing party. Third proposal, adding to Article 28.2 a new paragraph that ratification of an international treaty or agreement, which provides for the transfer of sovereign powers of the State, is by referendum. This also includes decisions relating to the country's further European course and perspective, and these decisions must have the support of the people, whose will they must be integrated. This proposal was received in the nominated House by a hundred and fifty-four votes. This means that the political power is further legitimised and the structural weaknesses of the representative system are weakened. Therefore, there is a limited representation deficit, but without any need for reforms to be carried out in the representative shapes and procedures themselves, especially in the parties and the electoral system. The democratic functioning of the parties and the introduction of simple analogy are important parameters, institutional peaks in this direction. Through the burglary of the Parliament's legislative monopoly, another political culture of collective motioning is being created and the dynamics of the people's initiative emerge. In this way, even limited, the people cease to be 'a sovereign who does not exercise sovereignty' and is not 'free only when elected by the Members of Parliament'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, faces distrust and fear of strengthening democracy in view of the people being irresponsible and immature, which does not have the knowledge to decide on important issues. This is also demonstrated by the position of colleagues from the New Democracy and by the invoking of the incorrectness of the people's decisions, in order to counter the introduction of the referendum on a popular initiative. Why is that so? Is it because it connects its neoliberal perception of the economy and the social state, with a dehydrated democracy and the ideological political refusal of popular participation and intervention? SYRIZA's proposal for the thematic unity of these provisions is important, since it refers to the promotion of civilisation in common and the enrichment of democracy by means of direct democratic elements. Furthermore, it is fully compatible with the constitutionally established principle of popular sovereignty. On this basis, the SYRIZA proposal can also be voted on by colleagues from the other parties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I address the Members of the New Democracy, we may have another philosophy and perception - an opinion on the economy, the social state and other areas of public life, but democracy and popular sovereignty can and must be a matter of all democratic forces. Unfortunately, the New Democracy has not been mutated - to use an expression of its general rapporteur, Mr Javara - in the direction of seeking consensus. She remains faithful to her pursuit and through constitutional review, to control everything at all levels, politically, micro-politically, even constitutionally, legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u188	Mrs. Liana Kanelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Today’s thematic unity of the Constitution, the truth is that it was offered. It was also offered for micro-policy, it was also offered to create impressions. Imagine people who are not legal, not university teachers, sitting at home and hearing that two hours we are discussing the unconstitutionality of the Constitution. They don't understand anything. Imagine also the citizens of this country - because it also has a demonstration of workers - to hear that there is a constructive mistrust from which a minority arises, but that a minority will rule with constructive distrust. Imagine, too - we need imagination very much - the citizens outside, between legal terms for the country's highest constitutional charter and to discuss here 151, 132, 128, 137, 155, 162 - as if they were tax rates in a country that does not have a constitutional court, to get an example now. Do we have a review? Yeah, we got it. We have it in a more reactionary direction. As much reaction as possible, because there were crowns here. Very big krone for the Constitution that should be for the Greeks and only for Greece to be for patriotism and a thousand two. You leave all forms of understanding in the sense of - not progress - of claiming popular rights which the JRC has attempted with its proposals to bring into one, most importantly, the most reactive, revised constitution. And you did it deliberately. For example, it can open a great deal of discussion today - not one has opened it - for Article 28, but Article 27 remains intact. It's not reviewable. Article 27, however, is that article within the Constitution that says in paragraph 1, that the limits of the Greek state may be changed. Now tell me how economic distrust one can understand that they can change the boundaries of the Greek state. How will they change? Imperialists are going to change?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u190	They're gonna be...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u191	We'll get older. No, no. They'll get smaller, shrink. Of course, they've already shrinked. We're out. We were in this House when the then President Mr. President. ‘Anna Psarouda - Benaki, unfortunately, said, for the sake of the country, we must grant a lot of our national sovereignty and rights. The phrase has remained historical, I do not have to repeat it and eat it from my least valuable time. We called for the abolition of the 27 and paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 which forbids foreign troops from crossing our country. And we found her in front of us. We have found two parties that have been ruling alternately with ANELs, with ILAE, along with PASOK, without PASOK and which have so far accepted basic anti-constitutional concepts that you are learning about at school. You don't have to. Encyclopedia, on Wikipedia. Chargering, tax and other acts and laws on the people's back, with retroactive force. This is where constitutionalists have made these decisions, elected politicians. We didn't take them. We are sitting here talking here today as if nothing is happening in this place, nothing essential. And the stability of a system that says that Greeks are equal. This is our Constitution. If they're equal, why have you given constitutional privileges differently for shipowners? What social class are shipowners? Constitutional assurance you have of shipowners and foreign capital. Didn't your mind go through someone's head? So that all Greeks are equal unless they are shipowners. That's what we're saying. If you want to be equal to equals, you have to be a shipowner. I can't be equal to the shipowner, neither can you nor anyone. We are asking to abolish Article 28(1) which recognises the supremacy of international law and international conventions with regard to domestic law. If I say that, nobody understands anything. Perhaps he does not understand internal law within the European Union on the outside, we have given him more dilemmas until referendums are held. I hear an over-estimation of referendums and - I remember. I remember that in Switzerland, which you consider a very advanced Western-style country - a colleague here brought it here as an example - a referendum was held a few months ago before the SYRIZA referendum, a referendum there. There they have no collective agreements. They have contracts, good time, as we have here and have contracts in factories, as we have here with the partnership of both parties that have dominated in the last few years in political life and in the New Democracy and SYRIZA. They made a referendum on the minimum wage to go to 3,200 euros. 76.3 % of the population voted not to be accepted, not to pay to 3,200 euros. This people who have asked for 90% take over 3,200 and voted not to take the remaining 3,300 000 who cannot live in Switzerland. The industrialists celebrated there, weeping whatever associations of workers were there, but there is the seat of all kinds and forms. So you say domination of international conventions and we hide in this debate the judgment of the European Court of Justice on 4 December 2018. I will read it again, and our rapporteur, Yiannis Giokas, read it again in committee and elsewhere. But it can't be, I have to say it today. It can't be, because nobody's given the required meaning. From the outset of the supremacy of European Union law, in order to overcome European Union law, as interpreted by the Court of Justice - Ireland went to court and went to court and this decision has been taken and applies to everyone - it shows that the institutions responsible for implementing the law of the European Union have the obligation to take all the necessary measures to ensure the full effectiveness of European Union law, leaving, if necessary, a good - inapplicable, national case-law or provisions. You come and he tells you raw. He won't even wait for a directive. In this House, ladies and gentlemen, you have witnessed every three years a directive and the European Union, which has greater force than our own law and the constitution and all the things that still exist and the case law which we are going through in industry, we adopt them, we make them a law that is above our own law. And here we are discussing the power of the Constitution and the authority of the President, of a President who is trying to present it not so much responsibility as we would like, directly disproportionate to the authority we demand to have, which plays with the figures, forgetting that the three-quarters of the legislation is based on presidential decrees which are, according to the coroner, in the bills which we presidential decrees never see, so that we do not have any illusions as to whether the President of the Republic serves or does not serve the work of the sovereign civil order. When you go to these directives, I would ask you very much, to keep in mind directives which may be of interest to you in the morning and then to understand what it means to say that a directive is more than our own law. When a directive comes, I am now saying, for example, why we are discussing this here and outside, they are discussing the legal and insurance responsibility of the algorithm with which artificial intelligence is to operate in medicine or in cars. This is currently being discussed in Europe and in the legal services of the Council of Europe, in the legal committee. That's what's being discussed. The criminal responsibilities of both the algorithm and the insurance of the algorithm and who will have the algorithm in his hands. And you are now telling me that they will be secured by five thousand or ten thousand or twenty thousand, by referendums that put the right question at the right time, which the House can overturn with a hundred and fifty votes and say that it is not important when you put it. Now we put on some nice fancy things: Are you for or against abortion? Whole referendum, trouble, vow, etc. What's going to go through underneath? Let me tell you. One directive comes, because it's a protocol. It has started and applied in Germany. It is a protocol and sooner or later, for the purposes of unification of insurance and economic matters and with the pressure of insurance and pharmaceutical companies, the patient will decide whether or not to recover after a heart attack. It's a protocol. And he will come out of a directive and will say before you go into surgery "Will we put you up or not bring you up?" Tell me what medical knowledge you're going to have to make of this decision and what strength to live with? And who's gonna take her if you can't? Shall we bring you up or not bring you up? Why? Because there is a concept in the capitalist territory of the European Union: health is a commodity and because it is a commodity, the cost of addressing must be a direct multiple of the services provided. So, if the upload costs a lot, you have to tell the patient "My handkerchief, and we'll bring you up, you cost a lot. Do you want us not to bring you up after the heart attack?’ When such a directive comes, what will you talk about? What national sovereignty are you going to speak of? Because they have passed, neither one or two nor three, at all levels. Proof? You've got school right now - primary school! - that for the first time after 1952, when the country became a member of NATO - I was born in '54, he goes to Naples under the heading 'We are NATO', 'We are NATO'. And he goes to NATO to tour and learn NATO operations, his structure, his fine act as peaceful. You will go to primary school students - and the stones from Pylea have not risen - in Naples, NATO, to show them how their continental land is bombed, it is enough to defend the energy interests, the purposes of armament and the colosses of the big money. If you are all very pleased with this, vote 'with the four'. We do not even vote for the budget of the Presidency of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u192	Mr Dionysios Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at today's plenary session during which we are debating the III, IV and I thematic section of the revised provisions, I would like to dwell on unity and, in particular, on the amendment to paragraph 4 of Article 32. This is the article in the Constitution which, together with Article 16, has dealt with public dialogue and discussion between the parties more than anything else. I would like to explain why. The institution of the President of the Republic and therefore the person we choose each time is the guarantor and regulator of the country. It is the highest rank. Without any other arguments, we can therefore easily, invitingly conclude that the procedure for its selection must result in consensus and unity. So we will ensure that we end up in a person of common acceptance, above dividing lines, representing over-partyism and homogeneity. So, on the basis of what I have described, and given that the members of the National Representation we participate in this Review House, we agree that this is the highest institution that must gather the above characteristics, that the election of the President of the Republic must be disconnected from the dissolution of the Parliament and the announcement of early elections. This argument can be strengthened, as long as we have a little backwards. Where? In the near 2015, when the process of electing the president was used by the then-individual opposition as a means for its early emergence to power. Then there was a slap in the order, elections were provoked. Mr. Tsipras said that "Mr. Dimas was an excellent Commissioner, but we have decided not to vote for any President of the Republic," showing how he perceives the Constitution and democracy and thus provoke the violent interruption of a democratically elected government. The authority of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, and civil servants are affected by such actions. The decisions taken at that time are well known to everyone. At a time when the country was finally preparing to come out of the economic crisis, SYRIZA, the ANELs in collaboration with the Golden Dawn, used the election of the President of the Republic to overthrow and block the country's upward trend, plunge the economy into recession and bring two new unpleasant memorials, bringing the country back to the vicious cycle of the economic crisis. 100 billion losses, 15 billion new taxes, reduction of pensions, huge increase in insurance contributions. This was the cost of the selection of Tsipras and SYRIZA. For example, it is also the case of the early 2009 elections, which, of course, did not have the formal activation of paragraph 4, because we have never reached the presidential election, since the national elections were preceded before the start of the proceedings. However, a large part of the opposition rhetoric was based on the preliminary refusal to consent to any person the government would then propose. Instead, in 2009 we discussed the crisis, its problems and how to deal with it, we entered a debate on the'moneys', where they exist and who have them. Ladies and gentlemen, while going even further back, we can see that the times when the election of the president was in the spirit of consensus were few. However, the New Democracy as opposition has always proposed a candidate for president, honoring the Constitution. In other words, the institution, which most of all symbolizes the unity of the nation, was used to create political deadlocks, to serve party interests and to divide public opinion. So the balance of the history of the provision, in the way it was used, is considered negative. And I say 'in the way that has been used', because it is worth noting that Article 32, as it currently stands, calls for cooperation, as it provides for three votes, during which the parties have time to proceed with the necessary processes and fermentation, so that Parliament can end up with a person of prestige and common acceptance. The fact, however, and the interpretation by some that paragraph 4 allows the Constitution to be handled as a means of serving purposes, today requires us to ensure that the election for the highest post of the country must be disconnected from the dissolution of this Parliament and the consequences that this may have. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis is well known to have permeated all areas of public life across the country, mainly affecting the economy. It did not leave state structures, health, education, social cohesion and the political system as a whole unaffected. But in addition to the wounds he left, there was also teaching. It has been taught mainly in the way that political staff have to deal with crises. Clearly, in order not to be confused, it did not make wiser those who pursued division and political unrest. After all, they appear unrepentant until today. Unfortunately, we saw it this morning. It showed, however, in an absolute way that the political instability and the opportunityal exploitation of the institutions pay it at the end only the country and the Greek people. It is our duty to change that. That is why I believe that the New Democracy proposal solves the problem, it offers a realistic solution, fully compatible with the requirements of the Constitution. The steps envisaged by the process proposed by the New Democracy, with the amendment of paragraph 4, give all time and space to the parties to discuss, process and table proposals and eventually end up. However, if they do not succeed, this does not involve adventures for the country and the Greek people. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud that today as a Member of Parliament I share this historic institutional change that respects the principles of democracy, ensures the unity of the nation and guarantees normality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, too, for the time economy. Mrs. Ahchioglu has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also concentrate on the issue of the President of the Republic. On the question of whether the House proposed is binding on the Revision House, the arguments of the law, the politicians have been heard, I think, and I do not want to repeat them. It's been this conversation. I would now like to concentrate more on political substance and in a way that every citizen can understand what is at stake at the moment and what is the debate and the controversy. I would like to begin with one key point: parliamentary democracy is by its very nature a crusade. It is open to dialogue, open to conflict, open to confrontation, it is open, constantly, to social competition, to political competition. And that's fair and reasonable. In this context, the President of the Republic operates as a minimum consensus so that there can be a smooth functioning of the civil society as far as possible. In this sense, it is defined as the regulator of the constitution, which guarantees him this institutional role. At the same time, he is the country's representative internationally. That is something we have not mentioned in this whole debate. Let us not forget that the President of the Republic, by the constitution, represents the country internationally. It is precisely because it has this institutional role, the regulator of the country's culture and international representation, that the President of the Republic has a legal position which cannot, in any event, be identical to the parliamentary majority, nor, of course, to the political opposition in question. It should, in other words, have a supra-party role. How does this be ensured, at least until now? This is ensured by requiring the President of the Republic to have increased political legitimacy. How does the Constitution guarantee this increased political legitimacy, which must have to have this supra-party role, as we have said? By electing the President of the Republic by a qualified majority within Parliament. To date, at least more than one party is required to agree to it. This was most often the case with an agreement between the parliamentary majority and the official opposition and in 2000 and 2005 and 2010. Therefore, in fact, from its legal position, cross-party consensus is necessary in the face of the President of the Republic. What now does SYRIZA's proposal say on this matter? The SYRIZA's proposal actually comes to reconcile two conflicting demands, to find a difficult balance between two conflicting demands: on the one hand, to maintain this supra-party role of the President of the Republic, namely, to maintain this requirement of increased legitimacy and, therefore, to be elected by an increased majority, but, at the same time, to be able to satisfy another requirement, which most of Parliament's parties consider it necessary, to disconnect its election from the dissolution of the House. There is a general demand from all parties that the election of the President of the Republic cannot continue to interrupt parliamentary periods, the drafting of a government and the mandate given by the people to that government to implement its plan. So SYRIZA is trying, with his proposal, to combine these two conflicting forces. And it puts forward a proposal, which has a complex, painful process in the search for consensus, a long-lived process within the House, which can reach up to six months, where it creates a framework of pressure for the parties to be able to come to an agreement and reach a person who has a cross-party consensus. At the same time, he who will not consent, takes his political weight away from him to drag this process, which is causing this institutional inconvenience. If this consensus is not reached, it says the SYRIZA's proposal, then we go to the last resort as ultimum refugium, to appeal to the people, to the people, because in any deadlock 'at the end of the day' in the democratic state, the solution is to take the people. But this appeal to the people is that of the ultimum refugium, the ultimate refuge, the extreme case in the SYRIZA proposal. The counter-project has been heard that, with the SYRIZA proposal, even as the last option for the election of the President of the Republic by the people of the Republic, we are not allowed to increase its role and that we are making it a pole in the political system, because we are giving him the possibility of direct popular legitimacy. Here, be clear. The legal position of the President of the Republic does not change because the process is changing. Its monetary policy remains the same. Its responsibilities are the same. They are neither extended nor amended because this process is changed because it is disconnected from the dissolution of the parliament. In our proposal, therefore, we are in agreement with two opposing things: increased legitimacy - an eighty-eight Members of Parliament or, as a substitute for this increased majority, election by the people - and the non-dissolution of the House. That's what SYRIZA's proposal does. But let us now come to the New Democracy proposal. What does the New Democracy proposal say? It says up to five votes. In the fourth ballot, 50 one votes are needed, and the majority in the fifth ballot is enough. This proposal is a change, not only in constitutional terms, but also in political terms. In practice, it means that the President of the Republic can be elected by a hundred forty Members, with thirty Members, the President of the Republic can be elected even with seventy-fifths of Members. Because you know that the Constitution provides that, in order for a decision to be taken in this House, a majority of seventy-fifths of Members are required to take a valid decision if the others are to be abstained. So what does the New Democracy proposal say? What is the result of this proposal? It turns out that we have a President of the Republic who was either explicitly voted against by a majority of Members or indirectly, through her abstention, again deplored him by a majority of Members. We are therefore talking about a President of the Republic of the minority, completely devalued, who cannot do his part and in no way have the role of regulator of the country's culture and international representation. The argument has been heard again by the New Democracy, 'but today the Constitution provides, in extreme cases, for the election of the President of the Republic by a qualified majority in Article 32(4)'. This proposal of the Constitution today is essentially different from the proposal of the New Democracy, because the Constitution says that this can only happen if the House has previously been dissolved, this great institutional change has taken place, national elections have taken place, the people have expressed themselves because the House has been dissolved, because the President of the Republic has not been elected and we are coming to a next parliament. It's a completely different process. Here, we have the election body. We do not have that in the New Democracy proposal. The proposal of the New Democracy remains in Parliament and essentially allows for the election of the President of the Republic of the minority because the majority in question actually means a minority. It does not mean that this will happen with the next President of the Republic. I don't know. I don't know. That's not what I'm saying. I say, however, that the mere fact that this possibility is now going to exist in our Constitution changes political data. Why would a party seek wider consensus when it knows that it will be able at the end of the day to show its purely party candidate to a President of the Republic? To say this, for example, in the previous parliamentary term that SYRIZA had a hundred forty-five Members - SYRIZA, I mean its own Members - could have chosen a purely party candidate for a President of the Republic. Also, in a few months' time, the New Democracy could appoint a President of the Republic, for example, Mr Adoni Georgiadis, a person, which we would not say has a cross-party consensus on. That is what the New Democracy proposal does. And because I hear the counter-project that, with the SYRIZA proposal and the refugee to the people, we are basically allowing a system of inter-statement, namely two autonomous political poles, to be established, I think it is actually with the New Democracy proposal that we are reintroducing a system of inter-state. Because what if a purely party candidate has been placed, always with the New Democracy proposal, the government is changing? Aren't we going to have a fighter? Aren't we going to have a very serious institutional upset and conflict? We will have a purely party President of the Republic from one party and another government, an unparalleled government. And because things when we review the Constitution we must think about them at their limits and not in cases of smoothness, today, you know, there is a series of responsibilities of the President of the Republic, who is hypnotizing, in which he does not use such as, for example, the referral of bills. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] If we have a situation where we have a purely party President of the Republic and another government, then it is very likely that the President will have a real opposition to the latter. Does this not constitute a very big institutional overthrow? I think, therefore, that with the proposal of the New Democracy, the issue of the resurgence from the back door, an issue that ended the constitutional review - and rightly - in '86, when it depreciated the President of the Republic from his powers and defined a pole, a government, a Prime Minister. And this proposal of the New Democracy is changing, the constitutional and political data that are currently in force. Because if it were the main restriction on abuse of the powers of the President of the Republic, that was precisely his cross-party choice. And with a party President of the Republic that goes away. Therefore, the proposal of the New Democracy turns the President of the Republic into the arm of a party. It is a political mistake, an institutional error, a constitutional error, which changes the whole spirit of constitutional architecture. I do not think you should insist on it. Find another way if you want to obtain cross-party consents, other than ours - if our mechanism does not make you the one we propose. At least to ensure this minimum of cross-party consensus, so that we do not have an unprecedented institutional crisis in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, too. Mr Constantopoulos has the floor now, and immediately thereafter Mr Contogeoros from New Democracy. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Review is the leading process of the Parliamentary Republic, even with this context, in which Parliament is called upon to revise a limited body of provisions without peaks. This is because provisions such as: Article 16(5) for non-State non-State non-profit universities. Rule 67 on the presence of a reasonable number of Members for the adoption of a draft law. Article 70(6) on the establishment of direct, invasive and unwarranted parliamentary control in accordance with the Anglo-Saxon standards. The introduction of increased majority laws by drafting a new provision in order not to easily change laws regulating important issues, such as tax or educational laws, the rotation of ministers or governments, and many other provisions relating to the everyday life of citizens by public administration and the management of bureaucracy. And that with the desire and blessing of the previous SYRIZA government. That is why, because we have not taken the opportunity for substantial constitutional changes, we have proposed that we do not move on to this review, that we cancel it and draw up a new proposal from this House. Because, as things have come, the great opportunity to solve real problems, ladies and gentlemen, is gone. At least, however, after moving on to the Review, let wisdom and consensus prevail in order to avoid mistakes that can be avoided. Ladies and gentlemen, on the revised provisions, Section 3, Article 37(2): Appointment of Prime Minister and Government. This was a proposal from the SYRIZA government at the time to introduce the parliamentary status for the Prime Minister as well. It is a proposal that makes democracy difficult in the event of political crises. In fact, given that the highest institution, Parliament's House, provides confidence in a government, the further conditions are unnecessary, not to say that they are indirectly deviating or, even more so, afflicting parliamentary citizens. Article 38: Government - discharge of duties. Paragraph 1. It is proposed by the committee, as in Article 84(2), to establish a constructive vote of censure. We reject it. There's no conversation left. Paragraph 2: We propose the replacement of the subparagraphs (a, (b) and (c) of Article 38 as follows: The Prime Minister shall appoint the Deputy Prime Minister at the beginning of the term of office, who shall replace him if he fails or is unable, for health reasons, to carry out his duties. The Deputy Prime Minister shall take the oath of the Republic when he is called upon to take office. I would remind you that it is a proposal by Professor Dimitris Cremastinos, because of his experience with the events of the period 1995-1996 with the most serious illness of the then Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou. This proposal was not supported by the current government in the Proposing Parliament. We invite you, gentlemen of the government, to reconsider. Article 68(2), Parliamentary and Examination Committees. The proposal for revision was tabled by the New Democracy and was voted by two hundred forty-seven Members. It is very important, I would say, for broad consensus. The most important thing, however, is that it is also the view of more than one parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed to improve the provision even further by providing that the setting-up of a committee of inquiry is also a right to a minority in the exercise of parliamentary control. We are proposing here to add as follows to the second paragraph: 'As during a parliamentary term, two committees of inquiry may be set up with a proposal from the opposition Members and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the previous subparagraph'. Fourth section of revised provisions. With regard to Articles 28(2) and 44(2) concerning the referendum, our position is that no change and no additions are needed. For everything that SYRIZA proposes, it is sufficient to consider all the questions raised by the Greek people and when the result of "No" became "Yes". The conclusions of yours. In general, the institution of the referendum needs attention and, I would say, wisdom. We see where the referendum on Brexit led, but also the referendum on the break-up of Catalan from the Spanish state. Article 73: Right to propose laws. We are positive about the possibility of exercising the popular legislative initiative on the basis of the concentration of a certain number of signatures in order to enter the House for discussion. We therefore propose that, with the signature of five hundred thousand citizens, proposals for legislation can be drawn up and tabled in the House, which, by decision of its President, are subject to discussion and which come to the House. We also propose that the proposal for a law tabled by the opposition should be introduced into the plenary agenda. We expect the proposal that we have tabled on this provision to be accepted. Eighth section of revised provisions. Article 32(4) and (5): Election of the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, the immediate election of the President of the Republic would be a disastrous mistake, a democratic regression. Let us learn from history and not ignore it. In whichever state the executive was two-headed, i.e. there was a division and the system was, in fact, a mere analogous system, instability was predetermined. It was therefore adopted to limit the responsibilities of the Head of State and its indirect election. Here in Greece we have experienced the national division. That is why I said that it is a disastrous mistake to reshape a framework which, in crisis circumstances, will favour it. Why? Because a single-faced institution, which is directly elected, even if it does not have any special competence, has itself enormous, but huge, I would say, political power. There is therefore a risk, even with a small degree of opinion between the President of the Republic and Prime Minister, that issues may arise and that the country should be brought into a state crisis. Nor is it a solution, however, to the relative majority proposed by the New Democracy, that is to say, the New Democracy's proposal that the President should be elected even with less than a hundred or so Members of Parliament, i.e. by a qualified majority. And that is a mistaken choice, because it is desirable that the person of the President of the Republic enjoys consensus and broad acceptance by all, particularly by the political system. We, ladies and gentlemen, propose that Article 32(4) be replaced as follows: If the increased majority needed to be extended by one year in the third vote, it is not possible to extend the term of office of the President of the Republic. Then vote shall be taken to elect the President of the Republic by a hundred and sixty votes. If the term of office of the President of the Republic has not been extended again for one year, that is to say, until the next parliamentary elections have taken place. In other words, avoid the dissolution of the House from the election of the President of the Republic. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to Rule 86 of the'subject to the responsibility of the Ministers'. This is a matter that needs attention, because in a polarisation climate events may occur unpleasantly. Of course, however, we can also avoid events that put us in a difficult position. We call 'yes' to the revision of Article 86. We say, in fact, that it is necessary, but with insurance, so as not to prosecute a weapon at the hands of the demagogues. There is, moreover, agreement between the three largest parties - SYRIZA, New Democracy and the Movement of Change - to extend the amortisation deadline of the House to prosecute two to four years, which is now more time, such as the time when the offence is cancelled. So there is the basis, we can review Article 86. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that this House is interfering with Greek constitutional history. I hope and hope that we will honour this topical process, in which we have the honour of participating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kontogeorgios has the floor from New Democracy and immediately afterwards Mr. Barkas will be prepared by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 1975 Constitution of our country is, in general, the most democratic and most resilient in time in the history of our country since its liberation in 1821. He has been successfully prosecuted with his revisions so far, ensuring the more qualitative and long-lived functioning of our democratic culture, the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic. The proposed Review by the previous House has, in my opinion, been an ideal opportunity for the whole country to redefine its national priorities, to further highlight our worthy code and our national identity, to release our country's creative forces, to conquer Greece as a sovereign force in south-eastern Europe and a protagonist in the European Union. Unfortunately, this opportunity was also lost because of SYRIZA's ideological strangles and the vulnerability of the proposed parliament. The New Democracy's proposal to open the debate on all the issues that were proposed by the parties and to leave this Review House, which resulted from the elections of 7 July 2019, was rejected by SYRIZA because it was viewing things from its outdated ideological perspective and its upcoming electoral collapse. For example, the necessary revision of Article 16 of the Constitution by breaking the state monopoly to higher education was hampered by today's Professionalism, a revision that could be the biggest source of wealth along with tourism for our country. Finally, the nominated parliament has reached seven key points of constitutional change: Firstly, the immunity of the Member pursuant to Rule 62, who is only protected in the performance of his duties and who abolishes the amortisation deadline laid down in Article 86(3) by equating the Minister with the ordinary citizens with the limitation of criminal offences. Secondly, Rule 68 is revised for a committee of inquiry, following a proposal by ten opposition MPs and with the presence of at least a hundred twenty MPs. Thirdly, the minimum guaranteed income is constitutionally guaranteed. Fourthly, the military judges are equal to the other judges in Article 96(5) of the Constitution. Fifthly, the election of the independent authorities in accordance with Article 101a is facilitated in order to avoid phenomena such as that of the Broadcasting Council. Sixth, the vote of the Greeks abroad is facilitated. And, seventhly, the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic is separated from the parliamentary elections by amending paragraph 4 of Article 32 of the Constitution. That is what we will be dealing with, ladies and gentlemen, in the next part of my speech. The nomination of the supreme institutional rule, the President of the Republic, in other words by an absolute or relevant majority, was decided by a majority so that the democratic people's mandate for a government would not be interrupted deliberately. It is, in my opinion, a mature development of our political system, which actually removes the phenomena of the election of the President of the Republic. It is the beginning of a new period of parliamentary democracy with political stability, but also full four-year parliamentary periods, usually required for the implementation of integrated government programmes. A small retrograde to recent political history demonstrates in the best way the required revision of Article 32 of the Constitution. From 1975 until today there have been nine elections to the Presidents of the Republic. Two of them were used by PASOK in 2009 and SYRIZA in January 2015 as a tool to dismantle the parliament and provoke parliamentary elections in the middle of government periods. In other words, they have blackmailed elections in the light of their party interest and not the interests of the country. We must not forget that the 2009 and January 2015 elections may have led to the intended targeting of their inspiring, but the consequences have been paid and paid for by the Greek people and the entire country. The first time the winner of the 2009 elections Georgios Papandreou, who "removed" the Karamanlis government on the pretext of electing the President of the Republic, was blocked by his election promises. Really, who can forget "there's money"? He was obliged to take a six-month leap, which was brought by the International Monetary Fund and the two Memorandums. Five years later Alexis Tsipras, thirsty and hungry for power, as he promised everything, caused the government to fall Samaras - Venizelos again on the pretext of electing the President of the Republic in the midst of its term, and brought to the country the third and most horrific memorandum, giving the national property to creditors for a hundred years and charging all Greeks with unbearable taxes and fees. Ladies and gentlemen, this recent painful story must be learned from us. That is why we must vote unanimously in favour of the revision of Rule 32 of our Constitution to remove the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House and the opening of early elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u200	Thank you too for the time, Mr President. Mr Barkas has the floor now from SYRIZA and then Mr Kastanides from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the constitutional review, in my view, is not just about the lawmakers or constitutionalists in the country, although I will have the luck of hearing after Mr Castanides, who will obviously have a more substantial place than my own in the constitutional review. But, in my view, this debate is about the House, but it is about society, and it is obviously not empty, it is under an ideological background, which each and every one of us places from a step of the House. There are many issues that have been raised by colleagues here during the debate on the constitutional review, ideological issues such as Article 16, but also issues relating to facilitating the vote of Greeks abroad or changing the way in which the President of the Republic was elected. It is clear from the position of the majority Members that when the debate on Article 16 comes in, their ideological position is clear, because it is a long way to debate this from my own student years when we started the fight against the revision of Article 16 in the 2000s. Also, ladies and gentlemen, it raises questions even to the Greeks abroad because now the facilitation of the vote of Greeks abroad, when your own parties - I am referring to PASOK and New Democracy - have been able to legislate simply until 2001 to facilitate the vote of Greeks and until then they have not done so. I, you know, cannot do it in a political vacuum, in a sphere created by the political staff of the country, and obviously this debate cannot be influenced by the political context. The Constitutional Review should therefore take into account what is happening every time, but what country we want to create, which political environment, if you wish, we want to create for the next generations for the next Members of Parliament. We have therefore taken note of the country's ten-year crisis in the previous House. How did we get to a crisis? What happened in this crisis? What was society talking about during the crisis about the choices of civilian personnel, about the choices of the President of the Republic, about the choices made by the Prime Minister or the government? It is in this sense that we must all re-emphasise the demands, the debates and the slogans that have been developed in this ten-year crisis, so that now that we have the potential of founding, conspiracy and more empowerment of our Constitution, we must not relive this kind of slogan. So I must address here in today's procedure, in particular the way in which the President of the Republic is elected. And unfortunately, you know what? The New Democracy is trying to historicize what happened in 2014, without disgraceing what was happening in our country at the time or what was happening within its party at that time. Because I was able to follow through the debates in this House what was happening and exactly what was taking place. And you know what? The election of the President of the Republic cannot be outside the economic environment in which the debate was taking place then on whether to close the fifth or sixth evaluations - I do not remember exactly what it was - and what would happen in that country. They coincide sometimes. You know, history at some point smiles or tears with us and some conversations or events coincide. We should therefore be aware that SYRIZA obviously did not work this process, but there was a tough debate on the part of the New Democracy or the majority - if you wish - on the person of the President of the Republic, on the constitutional and democratic features of the President of the Republic. And so, if I remember correctly, Mr Samaras' proposal for a President of the Republic came to an end, which - if I can read the story a little bit - could perhaps not, I do not know if the majority of the vote had thought of this at the time - did not take into account the constitutional requirement for consensus in the election of the President of the Republic. Because when the Constitution speaks of an increased majority in its election, it does not accidentally put it by saying that a party can, in itself, elect a President of the Republic, but puts a principle, the principle of consensus and says that precisely because it is the number '1' of a constitutional citizen in our country, there should be a broad majority in its face. That is why we proposed during our second term, during our term of office as President of the Republic, a man who came neither politically nor ideologically from our area, but we knew that he would defend this number "1" text of the Greek democracy which is the Constitution. In this sense, the proposal that we tabled in the previous House concerning the election of the President of the Republic has no reason to change our culture, but just through a specific procedure to achieve this consensus that is needed by the Greek Parliament and by the Greek Members and from there on, to see how this will obviously be separated from the national elections. Listen to this: what is happening is that you take the second part of the debate, namely how the President of the Republic will be removed from national elections and working on it. And what do you think? You say that if it is your interest now and if you think that SYRIZA did not succumb to normalism to vote for one of SYRIZA Members to change this article - so that there is no '180' - so that you, now, will not be able to make this change on your own. We did not commit this sort of tactic. So we are now, of course, talking about the second part, the cut-off of the national elections, but without this being expected that a party on its own, without the necessary consensus, will elect a President of the Republic. I would like to close, Mr President, by saying this: look at Article 86 applies to the law on the liability of ministers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, in thirty seconds. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, it is problematic that you are not voting for the interpretative statement on this law. And you know what? Unfortunately, there is a decision by a court which is - in my opinion - correct to Mr Tsukatos, who admitted that he gave money to a political party by a company - I do not know what money they were - and the court rightly handed it over, because there is Article 86 for the limitation of the offence, acquitted him. So there is Rhodes, so that we can vote for the interpretative statement, Mr Minister, and fellow Members of Parliament, to have the interpretative statement so that we do not have such examples in future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u202	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-four students and students and three teachers attending the 4th Xanthi Gymnasio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now Mr. Castanides has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the country's Charter tends to turn into a story of lost opportunities, which is due either to micro-party feasibility or to the failure to form a consensual spirit between the parties. It seems that this House will also miss an important opportunity and the Review that will succeed will be small in scope and importance. At least, let us try at the last minute, the articles that we will review to be properly devised, away from the logic of numbers and with many institutional guarantees for the best possible functioning of our democracy. A characteristic example is the revision of Article 32 for the election of the President of the Republic. Whilst the whole political world rightly agrees that the election of the President of the Republic must be disconnected from the possibility of early recourse to the polls following the dissolution of the House, the proposal of the parliamentary majority to elect it, even by a relatively problematic majority, is also very important. I want to explain it. The person of the President of the Republic shall be condensed with the national unity. It is good to have, in a country with strong internal political division and a long history of hard party competition, a face of national reference, a person to whom our internal political divisions can resort. So let the President of the Republic express this national unity, but that can only happen through a broad democratic legitimacy of his election. It cannot be the election of the President of the Republic as a result of a party selection, a majority, in fact, of a temporary nature. He's a bad advisor to majorities, when lawmakers think they'll always be majorities. Even if we accept the assurance of the good intentions of today's majority, that he or she proposed for the post of President of the Republic will be a person of broader acceptance, the parliamentary majority should always count that after a few years another majority may not have the same good option at all. The second reason why we should not introduce a majority in this regard in the election of the President of the Republic is that we will suffer for the next few years a paradox of our Constitution: The President of an independent authority will be chosen by a four-fifths majority or - as the New Democracy is now proposing - by a three-fifths majority of the Conference of Presidents, but the President of the Republic will be chosen by a relevant majority - not even an absolute majority - by the plenary! It should not be understood that, in one case, the Conference of Presidents is chosen and, in the other, the plenary, because what matters is the rule which commits the election of the people. The rule, as far as the Conference of Presidents is concerned, is that unanimity is sought or in any case the minimum of a four-fifths majority in plenary session. Is it really possible to defend such principles? I appeal to colleagues in the New Democracy and call for a genuine withdrawal of their proposal and for a wide-ranging parliamentary majority to look together for the revision of Article 32 of the Constitution. It can be done now. My proposal is that it is sufficient to delete the fourth paragraph of Article 32 and all the other paragraphs remain - with the nomination - unchanged in terms of content, which means that the final act on the election of the President of the Republic is to form a three-fifths majority in the number of Members. The less bold and imaginable could ask: What if there is no consensus? The answer is: When the political forces know that there is no other way out, that there is no other solution, only agreement to a person who is to be elected by a three-fifths majority, will seek it. We've seen it happen to the persons who lead the independent authorities. Despite the hardship, despite the difficulties, does the Conference of Presidents, which has no escape, find a majority of four fifths or even a consensus several times? That is where we are ending, without further votes, because we must not lead to the example of the Italian Parliament and the Senate, which, with continuous votes, finally arrives to be elected by a qualified majority. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to refer to Rule 44(2). I have been to those who have supported for many years the need to expand participatory democracy. And one way to expand participatory democracy is by holding referendums on a popular initiative. Some refuse to hold referendums on a popular basis, on the grounds that the referendum usually divides the social body and leads to unwanted results. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you of some simple truths. Firstly, all the referendums you call on, whether 2015 or the referendum in Britain, as a negative example of the division of the social body and the emergence of unwilling results, are referendums organised by the state authorities, never emerged from the popular initiative. Secondly, the expansion of participatory democracy by holding referendums on a popular initiative is not a luxury, to which we have the option of either choosing or rejecting. It's necessary. And if there are unwanted results at one time, the problem is not to those who have the initiative, that is, to the citizens, but to those who make the questions either by panic or by leaning. I would remind you - and I conclude, Madam President - that Winston Churchill, in his well-known sense of scepticism, said that 'the best argument against democracy is five minutes of discussion with the average voter'. However, it has never been understood, because of this wording, that it would abolish democracy. On the other hand, it set the conditions for discussion to improve democracy, by exercising citizens' responsibility. Finally, I will insist - and this is the proposal made by my party - that the right and happy majority - if not by unanimity - will be reviewed in Article 73 of the Constitution and that the popular legislative initiative will be provided for. I hope in one case, when we propose the popular legislative initiative, that we do not consider the people to be mature, and in the case of the initiative on the referendums to be immature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution now has the floor for eight minutes and then Mr Papapastasis from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u205	Fifteen minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u206	Your Chief has spoken. You know that. There will be a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u207	We agreed before, Madam President. Otherwise, don't talk. I can't afford to finish in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u208	There will be tolerance, Mr Colleague, so much time is laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech with the citizens, noting that the concept of 'citizens' is one place in a society, but one that must be struggling for. Continuing information, lifelong learning, labour, shared participation and solidarity are only some of the things that accompany this post, the highest perhaps in a state that wants to be governed by democratic procedures. Judging now from the outset, this obligation was completely neglected as citizens, leading us to the loss of our national sovereignty, the collapse of our standard of living and the total destruction, if anyone considers, of course, as we do, that the delegation of power to some who are not elected, to the foreign surveillance of our country is synonymous with the disaster. By trying now to understand why our country remained steadfast, despite its unique natural wealth, its incomparable culture and its enormous potential, we realised that the most important obstacle to its progress was and continues to be the enmity of the Greeks towards their state. The cause of this hostility, the source essentially of all Greece's problems and malfunctions, is other than the incredible arrogance and arbitrariness of power, which literally poisons the entire social life. It is precisely this arrogance and arbitrary power that must be fought, among other things, with the help of our Constitution, if we want to look at the future with optimism, especially the future of our children, who are again condemned to exile, to emigration to other countries. In this regard, the best solution, but which can only be a continuous process with this objective, is to vote for the citizens themselves the laws they are called upon to implement at local and national level, since only so will they support them as best as possible and will be protected by the powerful. At the same time, they must elect a government and a local government, which will have an obligation to apply them, while otherwise they will be withdrawn. It is, in our view, the only way for citizens to gain confidence in the state, at least as far as Greece is concerned. This is where we recall that the New Democracy colleague said that our current political system is representative, namely that the Member does not represent the citizens, but represents the citizens. He's absolutely right, unfortunately. In simple terms, it is something quite different from the one who draws authority from the person, namely, who has to carry out exactly the commands of the citizens he represents, and another who is there instead of the person and can operate at the alleged will of the citizens in general and vaguely, as he assumes it. It is precisely for this reason that we are proposing at first instance the introduction of the institution of revocation so that the Member can operate not as he wishes, but according to the programme which he has presented and elected. Otherwise, it will be subject to revocation, on compulsory resignation. If this seems utopian to you, and if it is not in the provisions to be revised, you should know that the need for self-protection of the people from aggressive globalisation, with the absolute domination of the financial capital that now exercises and the political power, what dictates everything with the powerful weapons that it has at its disposal, with the rating companies, with the banking system, including the central banks, with speculative capital, with its infamous markets and with all its other weapons. Unfortunately, the representative political system that created globalisation has now become an instrument in its hands, against the vast majority of the world's citizens. So it has to change and it will change. In our Constitution now, in Article 1, paragraph 3, it states that all powers come from the people, there are for it and the nation and they are exercised as defined in the Constitution. In other words, while the powers come from the people, according to our constitution, they are not exercised by the people, but they simply exist for them and are exercised only by politicians, that is, as the Constitution lays down itself. In accordance with Article 918 of the Code of Civil Procedure, a judicial decision against a citizen, for example, a bank that auctions the house of a unfortunate Greek, is carried out in the name of the Greek people. How does the Greek people really get involved in all this? Does it really want the Greek people to lose their homes, the people who cannot pay the banks, who have been unemployed or paid a lot less money, because their governments overdue the country, and then went bankrupt, signing a memorandum behind the other and mortgageing it in the Penal Code? Of course not. Did the Greek people want the memos signed? Of course not. Did the Greek people want to sign the PSI? Of course not. Did the Greek people want to sell their utilities? Of course not. Did the Greek people want to get the name of our Macedonia? Of course not. Greek citizens love their homeland. They would never betray her. Therefore, the powers may indeed be derived from the citizens, but they are not exercised by the citizens, nor can they interfere with the exercise of their powers by others under the Constitution. Ultimately, the Constitution states that the powers of politicians are exercised by politicians, in complete contrast with all the other countries of Europe in which the powers not only stem from the citizens but also from the citizens, and some define the exact way in which this exercise is carried out. We will submit to the Minutes a number of corresponding provisions of other European constitutions, in order to understand the size of the Greek hypocrisy. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Especially in the Portuguese Constitution, the subordination of economic power to politics is clearly mentioned, which has unfortunately been destroyed at a global level, especially in Europe, which is a micrograph of uncontrolled globalisation. Of all these examples, there is a clear discrepancy between our country and the other European countries, as far as the body of political power in Greece is concerned. Instead of correcting exactly these flaws of our Constitution, which led our country to bankruptcy, we are creating it even more over-conservative and over-concentrating. In this respect, we sincerely hope and hope that the current Prime Minister will understand what not all of us have understood, that it is a great mistake to shape the constitutions and laws in the personal measures of a Prime Minister who is today and tomorrow will not be, while our country and the citizens will be here tied up in hand and delivered in the hands of someone else who others can control. Continuing, everyone claims that after this vacant meaning Review will take 10 years to follow the next one. Really, who's imposing this? Do the lenders have until they completely reap the country? Does anyone really think that this Constitution will last for the next ten years, which are expected to be very serious events worldwide, in a bankrupt country, how much more so when Greece's continued settlement is under way with illegal immigrants who are gradually altering the structure of our society? With regard to certain basic provisions of the Constitution which are the subject of today's debate, I would like to mention the following. The rules of international law and international organisations are set out in Article 28(2). In this respect, we believe that every international treaty that relates to our national sovereignty or alters our national characteristics must be ratified by a referendum. We therefore propose a new wording of this paragraph as follows: "Every international treaty or international agreement which, firstly, recognises the institutions of international organizations provided for by the Constitution, secondly, grants or restricts the exercise of national sovereignty, thirdly, alters the historical, cultural and religious path of Hellenism, is required to be ratified by a referendum in which at least 50% of the electorate will participate. Otherwise, the Treaty or the Agreement shall not apply.’ If there were this provision in our Constitution, there would be no memoranda and there would have been no vote on the Prespecies Agreement, while every foreign factor would never be aware of pressing the Greek governments. Simplifiedly, the more centralised the political system - and with the Constitution today will become even more centralised - the more easily the foreign factor breaks down a country. In Article 44 on referendums, with the aim of introducing institutions of direct democracy and citizens' participation in decision-making, we propose that the paragraph should be changed as follows: "The Resolution is compulsory by the President of the Republic, when the House so requests by an absolute majority of the total number of Members of Parliament, or if they request signatures of a hundred thousand citizens". I will testify in the Minutes what applies to other states, so that it can be understood that we have not even discovered the wheel here. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In Article 73, in the right to propose laws, in order to introduce directly democratic institutions and citizens' participation in decision-making, we propose to change the entire article as follows: "The right to propose laws belongs to the Parliament, the government and the citizens. A proposal in the House to vote or to amend a law by citizens is legal, since it includes an accurate draft law after its explanatory statement and is accompanied by signatures of thirty thousand citizens. Introduction to debate and vote in Parliament shall take place in accordance with the procedure laid down for the proposals for legislation of the Government and of the Parliament." I will also submit to the Minutes what applies to other states, so that it can be understood that neither we have discovered the wheel here. It applies in too many other countries. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall close with Rule 32(4), election of the President of the Republic. The proposal of the Greek Solution is stable, not today, and it is this: the President of the Republic should be elected directly by the citizens, following proposals from either ten MPs or thirty-three thousand citizens and, indeed, the President of the Republic should certainly return the powers he had during the 1975 Constitution and even more extensive. I will also submit to the Minutes again what applies to other countries. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the top of the executive, there should be security rigours and not the prime ministerial monocracy. However, since this cannot be done on the basis of the reform launched, we propose that, in order to prevent the House from falling apart, the wording of the above paragraph should be as follows: 'If, in the third vote, this increased majority of three fifths (3-5) of the total number of Members of Parliament, the President of the Republic is elected by the Parliamentary Party, with a minimum of fifty one votes.' Finally, Article 37(2) proposes the incompatibility between the Member and the Minister, as is the case in France for example with Article 23, namely the complete separation of legislative and executive powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u210	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Papanastassis has the floor now from the Communist Party of Greece and immediately after Mrs Papadimitriou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the process under way by all the parties of the Parliament, with the exception of the Communist Party of Greece, we have so far heard characterisations such as 'the top parliamentary procedure', 'the top political act' or towards the poetic one, 'the reduction of the breach between the political system and society'. In short, we have witnessed an unbearable monotony, repeated unanimity, which is the need to shield its power at the moment of the sovereign order of the bourgeoisie. In the previous parliament, the Communist Party of Greece tabled concrete proposals for the constitutional review. These proposals were structured in nine distinct axes. For the time economy, I won't mention them in detail. There are in the Minutes. The JRC's proposals on the exercise of the sovereign rights of the country and the need to shield them were tabled on the first axis. I am referring to Articles 28 and 27, without having been included, under the responsibility of SYRIZA and the New Democracy, in the articles to be revised. It is precisely those articles that potentially restrict the exercise of the sovereign rights of our country, that allow dominance rights to be granted to foreign centres and, of course, enable foreign troops and bases to pass through and stay in Greece. These are the articles you refused to abolish. Why, do you mean to this non-renunciation? The question, of course, is rhetorical, because the answer is self-evident and intertwined with the hard core of your urban policy, your policy. You deny the abolition of Articles 28 and 27, because they are precisely the provisions facilitating the implementation of the imperialist planning of NATO, the European Union and the United States in the region. They are the provisions that give air and Greece's participation in them. They involve our country in very dangerous competitions, in ongoing or even pre-seasoned imperialist wars and attacks that target it dangerously. You are eliminating your ingenuity in order to mislead the people about the consequences of your policy. With still fresh ink on the signatures of the recent Greek-American agreement on the US bases, celebrating, in your view, the maximisation of protection, security and stability in our region, the reality has come to disprove you very much. By implementing your policy, you are turning our country into a vast military base, into an American moratorium of death. You expose our people to enormous dangers. The interests of the United States in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East, North Africa and the Persian Gulf for the control of energy sources and pipelines in no way correspond to the minimum of the interests of our people. The answer to your realities you took with the great populist anti-imperialist mobilizations all over the country. It was a small example of the irresponsible popular determination toward the Government of New Democracy, but also to the policy of SYRIZA, which set her the way and which is now being disgusted. The fight is not just to close all the US bases in Greece. It is also against the participation of the country's Armed Forces in imperialistic missions abroad. You celebrated the so-called peace and stabilisation role of the US, sealing the presence of Foreign Minister Pompeo in Greece. You deliberately cultivated illusions about supposedly declining Turkish aggression, respecting Cyprus's sovereign rights, for tranquility in the Aegean. But your allies themselves are unraveling you. A long time ago the American Foreign Minister departed from Athens, the Americans gave the green light to Turkey for its new war operation in Northern Syria against the Syrian people. The pilgrims that tranquilize American imperialism have become speechless. You've been irreparably exposed. As far as the constitutional provisions of Article 28 are concerned, it is the United States, together with NATO and the European Union, that are the ones who are making use of them, are those who threaten peace, those who threaten the safety and well-being of the people, and that is what our people feel. That is why we are calling for these constitutional facilities to be abolished to the imperialists and their plans and, on the occasion of today's debate in this House, we once again express our solidarity with the people of Syria, with the Kurdish population of the region, with the peoples - victims of imperialists, whether from armed interventions or not. As we said at the outset, our party in the proposed parliament called for the abolition of Article 27(1), which even allows changes to the limits of the Greek state. He also called for paragraph 2 to be removed, which allows foreign troops to be crossed by it, so that neither is possible nor allowed. The memories of the imperialist intervention in Yugoslavia are still fresh, in which there has been a blunt crossing of naval troops from our country. However, we are also calling for the full abolition of Article 28, because this is what allows not only restrictions on the exercise of the sovereign rights of the country, even the granting of these sovereign rights itself, but at the same time also provides for the supremacy of international law vis-à-vis the Greek, at a time when international law is becoming more and more reactionary, of course, because of the negative correlation of power. This, of course, does not mean and could not mean that Greece will not participate or ratify international conventions. They will, however, have the standard law. Finally, we have asked the Government with a formal and incomprehensible rejection of the constitutional safeguarding of the right of trade union expression of the permanent officials of the Armed Forces, and of the setting up of committees of militants to deal with problems during their term of office, with a new paragraph adding to Article 22. In conclusion, the aim of the Communist Party of Greece in relation to the process of Revision of the Constitution is to highlight what the working people need to fight, to claim to live on the basis of their modern needs, realising that the defence and expansion of their rights require deeper changes, radical changes in the economy, power and, above all, overthrowing the current system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Papadimitriou has the floor, and immediately thereafter Mr Gikas from New Democracy. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Madam President. We have again, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the objection of unconstitutionalism tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on the question of the limits of competence of the two Bulgarians, the proposer and the decisive one, but an issue which has been discussed sufficiently well during the previous parliamentary term and is wisely formulated by the Constitution that wants the two Bulgarians to be equivalent: one, the proposing one, to determine the agenda for the revision and the revision, to decide on the content of these provisions. And the fact that the electorate is being interfered with by elections gives the power to the Review House to do exactly that, that is, to define the content of the provisions that are being revised. There is therefore no question of interpreting this issue, for which top constitutionalists have in the past answered such as Dimitrios Tsatsos and Aristovoulos Menesis. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of our country is the fundamental, supreme law of the state, which affects more than anyone else's lives. Anyone can understand why our Constitution must be modern and flexible, meet the requirements of Greek society and integrate the real social demands. One of these requests, which is also one of the top and most important institutional changes that is being attempted by the current Review House, is the request to disconnect the emergence of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament, which the vast majority of Greek citizens demand. The reason why little - we all know that. The provision of Article 32(4), which provides for the early dismantling of the Parliament in the event of the President of the Republic being unable to elect, was the political alibi, the pretext for our country to move to early elections, with, of course, lasting at the end of 2014, where SYRIZA, in a climate of total political depreciation and extreme division, severely ceased the upward course of the economy and our country, with all known consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, our democracy can no longer be a commitment to the political strategy in question. Governments should be able to complete their mandate, implement their work in four years' time and on this basis they should also be judged by the Greek people. The wide-ranging parliamentary convergence which has been noted in both the Pro-Government and the Revision Committee on this matter demonstrates the need for a revision of Article 32(4) for a new way of highlighting the President of the Republic, which will give a definitive end to the paralysing phenomena of the past. The proposal of the New Democracy is clear, concrete and restored to institutional balance. The election of the Head of State shall be disconnected from the controversy and the Parliament shall be given the opportunity to deal with the choice of the person of the President of the Republic with the institutional responsibility for it. So, according to our proposal, we are eliminating every margin for wider consensus, effectively enabling all the political forces to reach a face of mutual acceptance in three successive votes. However, when this is not possible, we shall proceed with an election procedure with an absolute or relative majority, which is also the rule at international level. On the contrary, the solution proposed by the Qualified Opposition is lacking not only reasonable but also a legal basis. The SYRIZA proposes successive votes in a long-lived process, which lasts for a six-month period, and if they are fruitless, direct election by the President of the Republic by the people. First of all, this solution lacks a legal basis. The framework within which the new way of giving the President is to be defined shall be laid down by Article 30(1) of the Constitution, which states that the President of the Republic shall be elected by the Parliament and not by the people or by any other body. However, that provision is not part of the revised provisions and remains as it stands. Any solution proposed should therefore be in line with the provision of Article 30(1). Furthermore, a possible direct election of the President of the Republic by the people would create serious issues as well as in the form of our own constitution, which is based on Article 1 of the Constitution, the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic. The above provision of Article 1 belongs to the provisions of the Constitution which are not revised. SYRIZA's proposal attempts to establish a peculiar'semi-chronic' system, with two parallel legalities, the elected Parliament and the elected President of the Republic, but a logic that is inconsistent with our culture. As for the long-term process of the six-month period and the successive votes, one can easily see the enormous political upheaval and destabilisation that can also cause the dangers of our country's political stability and security. To close, ladies and gentlemen, it may be with the sole responsibility of SYRIZA and his ideas that we have lost a great opportunity to have a radical revision of the Constitution, such as the revision of Article 16 or Article 24. Nevertheless, the new Article 32(4) and the decoupling of the election of the President of the Republic from the early dissolution of Parliament is a victory and an important conquest for our democracy. The new way of showing the President shall ensure that he is over-partyd and dismissed from any political confrontation. It respects the President's institutional role, but also ensures the smooth functioning and continuation of the other institutions of the country. It eliminates all margins of consensus from all political forces, but it also offers a realistic solution if this is not achieved, because, as the President of our party and Prime Minister of Greece Kyriakos Mitsotakis said, when consensus is not reached and increased majority, the President of the Republic cannot turn into a division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Gikas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's process - all week after all - is the top parliamentary procedure and it is a real honour for us to participate in it. The Revision of the Constitution is indeed very important and it happens about once in the decade. We have, of course, a responsibility in this House to formulate the provisions for revision correctly. But also the previous parliament, the proposed parliament, bears a strong responsibility because it did not take this important opportunity to propose a brave revision of the constitution, adapted to the modern environment, but with a view to the future. We have therefore lost an important opportunity and a sole responsibility, of course, was Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA. I am now going to place myself on two articles. One is, of course, Article 32(4) concerning the election of the President of the Republic and the other is Article 28(2). For the election of the President of the Republic, the Constitution requires a consensual process and, of course, seeks to select a person with the greatest authority, which will have a super-party role that will be accepted by the broadest possible majority of the House. History has taught us that this consensus is not easy to consolidate or to achieve. On the contrary, the anticipation of the Constitution for the Early Dissolution of the Parliament in the event of a failure to show the President had unfortunately become a tool of the respective Civilian opposition, for the aggression of party objectives and strategies. Many colleagues have said so from the nine elections to the President of the Republic only in three, there has been a substantial consensus. In fact, the most recent in 2009 and 2014, the vote against the government proposal, regardless of the face of the candidate president, had been announced by the Civic Opposition much earlier than the process, effectively leading the country to paralysis, which, of course, lead us to early elections and the dissolution of the House. Five years ago, we lived here the fall of the Samara government, for that very reason, from SYRIZA and followed all these years: 1/3 unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum, instrumental measures, taxes, etc. We could have avoided all this if the election of the President of the Republic was disconnected from the dissolution of the House. Now, however, we are given this great opportunity. The proposals of the Opposition are based on two logics: the election of the President by the people, provided that the House cannot hold the qualified majority or resume the vote, as often as necessary, until the President of the Republic is elected. SYRIZA, of course, suggests something from both. These proposals, in our view, degrade the institution of the President of the Republic and, secondly, do not respect the very spirit of our Constitution. The large number of votes cannot be a solution. It prolongs the process, fuels political uncertainty and can be the cause of a political crisis. At the same time, recourse to the people is contrary to Article 30(1), which stipulates that the parliament elects the President of the Republic. That is why Article 1 speaks of the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic. They therefore elect the House, which in turn elects the President of the Republic. In the face of the popular verdict, these two institutions are equitable in some ways, which is rightly confusing. Furthermore, this process involves the President of the Republic who has to and must be a supra-party person in a pre-election period of party conflicts, where party majorities, parties of support, which is certainly not acceptable. The New Democracy is proposing a solution which, of course, gives Parliament the decisive power to elect the President of the Republic. If the first three votes are fruitless, it is elected to repeat the vote after five days between the two majority persons. We believe - and I think it is obvious - that when a government has the declared one, it cannot have the capacity of fifty-one votes. You in the previous period ruled with a hundred forty-five plus six, who had signed and declared that whatever you brought to Parliament would vote for it. So I think it is very difficult to go to another vote which, of course, we will have the relative majority, which, as the previous colleague said, also exists abroad. I would like to say in the few minutes that I also have a word about Article 28(2), which is the rules of international law and the International Organisations. Here it was proposed to be reviewed by the proposed majority, and it was right not to concentrate the necessary majority in the Revision Committee of the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The opposition has proposed an addition so that if a treaty or agreement provides for the transfer of sovereign powers of the State, ratification of the agreement is by referendum. The Constitution imposes on us a representative system of governance. It speaks clearly in when referendums are held and under what conditions. In the elections, citizens with the right to vote elect MPs as representatives of the nation, who vote, speak and act as trustees. The will of the citizens is therefore expressed through the Members who, on their behalf, are, of course, able to vote for the ratification of treaties or agreements. At the same time, apart from constitutional interpretation, we must not overlook the political and practical parameter. The rules of international law and international organisations deal very sensitively and - many times - complex issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will take a minute from the previous speaker who spoke less, who is also a colleague of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u216	I'd give it to you for a minute anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u217	Well, the International Organisations handle very sensitive and many times particular issues, which public opinion cannot know. So we are often called upon to ratify an international agreement which, if we put it in the people' s judgement, probably, for a number of reasons, has been the opposite of what we are seeking. That would cause damage to the country. So I think that this particular article did not go far enough. In conclusion, I too would like to congratulate the Committee on the very good work it has done, and in particular Mr Evripidis Stylianides, who was President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I will now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kamine, for 15 minutes and immediately thereafter to Mrs Iatridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned today with issues which, because they are at the core of the parliamentary culture, have repeatedly caused marginal political conflicts. They have marked the political life of the country, already in the middle of the 19th century. In particular, the issue of the position and responsibilities of the Head of State has shaken political life for decades, caused a national division in 1915 and half a century later, a second that led to the imposition of the April dictatorship. The relocation had to come so that, with the 1974 referendum, the issue of the form of the constitution and the choice of the Unsuccessful Democracy could be resolved. The 1986 Review then abolished the so-called superpowers of the President of the Republic, so that it finally ended a great loose end, which had shaken the political life of the country for six decades. Since then it has become undeniable that Greece's civilisation is a parliamentarian of a monetaristic nature, that is to say, the government depends on the confidence of the House and not on the President of the Republic, as he was letting our Constitution to be transparent before the 1986 Review. Finally, the constitutional theory could now turn its attention to other issues, such as the introduction of institutional counterweights to the enhanced power of the government and Prime Minister. So, with all honesty, I was very surprised to hear the SYRIZA's proposal that the President of the Republic should be elected immediately by the people if the votes in this House were to be fruitless. Firstly, because this is contrary to Article 30(1) of the Constitution which stipulates that the President of the Republic is elected by the House and obviously only means by the House. Here, then, it is not possible to circumvent the inconsistency of Officer Response. Because while he maintains that the Review House is strictly bound by the directions of the proposal, he comes and proposes to us today that we move on to indirect and unarmed, that is, to smuggling, a revision of Article 30 of the Constitution, which is not even included in the provisions under review. The proposal by SYRIZA, however, also contradicts Article 110(1) of the Constitution, which stipulates that the provisions setting the basis and form of the culture as the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic shall not be reviewed. If, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal were to prevail, we would actually introduce a semi-presidential system, since we would eventually end up with the government's dependence and the confidence of a powerful one, since it would be elected by the people, the President of the Republic. We'd actually be back for a century. Inevitably we would have a President of the Republic directly elected by the people and therefore, equipped with popular legitimacy, corresponding to the House. And there is no need to be particularly imaginative to assume that sooner or later we would be in conflict, between the parliamentary majority and the people elected by the President of the Republic. We would, in other words, reach a state crisis. With SYRIZA's proposal, we would actually fly into the disuse basket, the 1986 Review, which no one is now questioning. On the other hand, however, we have the proposal of the New Democracy which leads to the degree of opposite effect. The current majority opens up the possibility of the President of the Republic at some point by a simple majority of the Members present. In other words, we will have a Head of State with reduced authority. The word 'principal', ladies and gentlemen, is of great importance here, because it refers to the distinction between autoritas and potestas. Potestas is power, power, power of enforcement. Most of the state bodies of the legislative and executive authorities exercise potestas, starting with the parliament which lays down the general rules of law that impose on us or prohibit us or allow us something to the last public official, who, as a member of a disciplinary board, imposes the penalty of dismissal on his colleague. The legislative and executive bodies shall lay down and implement corresponding rules of law with the power of enforcement. The legalisation of this coercion in our legal order draws it from the democratic principle, especially since the majority, which requires confrontation and conflict. And precisely because, in our culture, conflict exists as a derivative of ideological and political confrontation, the Constitution as a counterbalance also provides for some other instruments that equip them with autoritas, that is with authority or authority. It's the automaticity in English. These instruments are surrounded by guarantees of political objectivity and impartiality in order to keep them, as far as possible, out of political controversy. It is such institutions that make up the judiciary and the independent authorities. I will not, however, deal with this today, but with the third body which has to enjoy prestige: with the President of the Republic. Since the party conflict may in marginal situations of polarisation and division threaten the foundations that support and continue the state, it is necessary for a President of the Republic who has not as much powers as the prestige, that is, according to the Constitution, to give it an increased parliamentary majority, which goes beyond the limits of the government. Because the task of the President of the Republic is to break above the political conflict as a regulator of the constitution, as the Constitution explicitly provides. It is he, that is, who is called upon to restore the normal pace of the civil war, when that rate is disturbed because of the seriousness of the political conflict. In fact, in order to strengthen the regulatory role of the President of the Republic, we are proposing today that he, without the Prime Minister's signature, should be able to address proclamations and convene the Council of Political Heads. These are primarily regulatory responsibilities. In other words, the proposal of the New Democracy is in complete contrast with the regulator's very mission, as it is now apparent from the Constitution. In addition, he considers SYRIZA's proposal to necessarily possess the status of a Member of Parliament, a proposal that coincides with the unexplained empathy that SYRIZA seems to feed against Mr. Luke Papademos, a modest man, an internationally distinguished technocrat, who literally saved the country. Nor does the constructive motion for distrust today have any interest. However, we must recognise that both of these proposals of the SYRIZA are closely interlinked with the simple analogue. As experience has shown in Greece and internationally, the system of mere proportionalness often leads - not always, but often - to compromise governments, which embodies this compromise in the face of a party-coloured technocrat, but that, as we have seen, does not want SYRIZA. The constructive motion of censure is also closely intertwined with the mere proportional system. It aims to ensure the government's stability threatened by the fragmentation of the parliament caused by simply proportional. In other words, it obliges the political forces which agree to overthrow a government, to have the alternative ready, and that is why the proposal is also being called constructive. I have tabled my opinion on the proposal for referendums. The experience of the 2015 referendum is a black page in the post-cultural history of the place. This referendum suffers as to how it was conducted, as to the question he raised and ultimately as to the fate that the government then gave to the people's verdict. I believe that the only reason why the President of the Republic has come to this project was not to upgrade to a state crisis the extreme political conflict that he had broken out with the announcement of the referendum by the then Prime Minister. I would like to dwell on Article 73 and on the proposal made by the Change Movement for the so-called legislative initiative. We propose, with five hundred thousand signatures, that proposals for legislation be put before the House and that the President should be forced to table a debate in plenary. As our general rapporteur, Andreas Loverdes, has said, with our proposal, a new political right is created, which is a reasoned deepening of democracy and is fully consistent with the parliamentary character of the culture. On the basis of the table submitted by the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Stylianides, the popular legislative initiative is set out in twenty one of the forty-seven of the Council of Europe, ten of which are countries of the European Union. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, let me stress that the debate on the election of the President of the Republic is extremely enlightening because it brings to light the great problem of our political life, the inability to agree at last that some fundamental institutions and rules of political life must remain unavoidable. That will never be ensured by reviewing the Constitution, with all the guarantees that we can put in place if we surround the new provisions that we are voting on. We have the illusion and we are transmitting it to the people, as far as we are able to keep to it, that by reforming the fundamental law of the state, we can automatically improve the quality of political controversy. That's a big misunderstanding. Great constitutional reforms are those that either pave the way for the joint legislator to coordinate his stepping up with social development, or open the game to new political forces that the establishment kept on the margin. Those changes which simply come in order to change constitutional rules not because they are suffering themselves, but because they have been erroneously implemented by political parties, are of no use, because the problem here is not constitutional but political. It's a matter of political morals. After all, it is a matter of restraint of the political forces. At some point in this country we should realise that democracy includes the political conflict which ensures that power and the renewal of political life are changed, but this conflict also has its limits. Here comes the moral responsibility for the actions of the political forces, expressed by the restraint to which I referred earlier. But that will not teach us any constitutional theory and no constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Iatridis has the floor now from New Democracy and immediately thereafter Mr Kegeroglu from the Change Movement. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that it is truly regrettable that SYRIZA ignores or wants to ignore fundamental provisions of our Constitution and raises a plea of unconstitutionality for the article on the election of the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, at last make your self-criticism and accept the fact that what you sought by the Revision of the Constitution has been denounced by the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I also mentioned in my first speech on Monday that it is very important that the New Democracy, in its proposal, also guarantees the minimum guaranteed income. It turns out in practice and not in the words that we, the government, the Prime Minister, really and essentially care for our socially most vulnerable citizens. We leave no substance - within many introductorys - 'left' your rhetoric and move towards substantial support measures for our fellow citizens in need. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today at the third plenary session on the constitutional review of crucial issues, which I believe affect not only the political life, but also the country's normal course. I shall begin with Rule 32, which concerns the election of the President of the Republic. I believe that the spirit of the legislator in this article was clear, that is to say, to seek the greatest possible consensus for the election of the highest state ruler, of a person who ensures the smooth functioning of the constitution, a function in all respects of the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Constitution. In other words, the Constitution calls on the parliament to vote wisely and with consensus the person who can respond to his duties and, of course, to go beyond any party relationships. Unfortunately, as on other issues, the provision of the Constitution for an enlarged majority for the president's election was turned into a tool for promoting party objectives. We all remember the events of the election of the President of the Republic in December 2014. For the first time in such a cynical way, he sought and succeeded in the dismantling of the House on the pretext of electing the President of the Republic. The results are known to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, we have been late to change this article since we saw that there is a question with the procedure. It was also said in the Review Committee that such thoughts existed since 2001, but the change in this article did not go ahead. For me, it is imperative that we move on for another reason. Always during the post-population period, immediately after the elections, everyone calculated when the President of the Republic was elected to identify and assess whether there would be a problem for the government. But in this way no serious political planning can be done, no long-term policy can be planned and implemented. Today, because of the circumstances and more than ever, there needs to be long-term planning, to decide - as we say - on future generations and not on the next elections. The proposal of the New Democracy therefore meets the conditions and yes, the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House must be completely separated. In SYRIZA's view that it cannot be elected President of the Republic with a hundred and fifty Members, I would just like to point out that this is the minimum required. There is room for consultation in the previous votes, much more when one has been removed from the possibility of blackmail with early elections. You can then see that the conditions arise for a wider consensus in the election of the President, such as the Constitution - in any case - provided for in its original wording. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to stress the New Democracy's proposal for the revision of Article 68(2), which comes mainly to facilitate the parliamentary minority and strengthen its rights and control work. With this proposal, the House may be two - per period - of examination committees, on a proposal from at least ten Members, if this proposal is voted in favour of two-fifths of all Members. In other words, the minority is given the opportunity to propose the setting-up of committees of inquiry, which is the case for the first time. And because in my first speech I mentioned that when SYRIZA felt powerful, he started the constitutional review to pass his own political agenda, here we have something quite different. After the elections, with the confidence of 40% of the Greek people, with an absolute majority in the House, we come as a party and strengthen minority rights, strengthen democracy and Parliament's role, and prove in practice that we are the culmination of the great choices. Madam President, let me conclude by mentioning very briefly our islands, on the basis of Article 101(4), which concerns islands. My colleague in the Review Committee also referred to this article. It is obvious that since the 2008 Constitutional Review, this article has been reinforced in terms of insularity. New Democracy has guaranteed this support for struggles for many years now, both at European and constitutional level. From now on, however, we must see its effective and unnecessarily applied to all legislative initiatives, to taxation, to the application of development laws, to the management of Community funds. Our islands are characterized by territorial discontinuity. I believe that for this reason, both us and the remote mountain regions, we are entitled to maximum support, not as a gift, but as a minimum, to balance the difficulties we face. In any case, it is a national case that there should be full and clear support for our islands, on every legislative initiative. To us it's a matter of life, it's a matter of responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement and Mr Keletsis prepares for the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, while the idea has been inspired that, in order to have a substantial constitutional review, it should be done with a look at the future, in the face of modern social needs, the needs of the economy, but also by monitoring international developments in technology and, of course, in relation to the environment, the constitutional review in the second phase of which we are characterised by us - and it turns out that it is - as a bulwark and yet a lost opportunity to strengthen the position of our country, the position of citizens through the Charter of Chora which he hears in the name of a Constitution. Therefore, at this particular juncture, we have a tight framework within which the Review takes place, since there have been second thoughts and, in many ways, both in the first and second phases, with a different operator and majorities in the first phase and different in the second. Since our original proposal to have a new principle for constitutional revision has not been accepted, we are as responsible as possible to place ourselves in the articles which are being revised, whether for those where a simple majority of the House is required, or for those that are reinforced by an eighty or more. Therefore, we have specific things for which we need to place ourselves. Of course, by saying that it was a shameful opportunity or that this Review does not mean that there are no positive provisions and developments. I would like to refer to the acceptance of our proposal - and, as all the political forces say, it is a proposal that everyone claims, to see at the end whether it will be orphaned - to establish the possibility of a citizens' legislative initiative. It's an important proposal. The fact that a proposal is being tabled with five hundred thousand signatures is very important in itself as a fact, because it means that it will concern a huge issue of the country for which half a million citizens and more have signed up. This will, of course, be discussed in the Greek Parliament. I say this because there is a perception that it will apply on its own, and I mean outside the House, because there is no necessary information. If it is judged by the House by the procedures provided for in the Constitution, it will also take the form of a law. Of course, the restrictions on budgets apply, anyway, to the proposals for law and counterpopulation, but it is very important that this should go hand in hand. I shall refer to the second issue which is positive, which concerns a decent level of living and access to basic social goods. It is very important to constitutionalise the state's obligation to guarantee all citizens - see weak - this decent level of living and access to basic social goods. He doesn't, of course. The Constitution should define and what that is. It's not a matter of law. The reference to access to basic social goods, by identifying social goods, could then be a powerful weapon for the joint legislature and the political forces to identify it. I say this because yesterday it was announced - I would say - by the government that it will give EUR 1 billion and increase the beneficiaries of the guaranteed social income, the allowance, from about five hundred thousand to eight hundred thousand. It seems that the government has not understood what the institution of the guaranteed income is. The institution of the guaranteed income, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, as well as of the SYRIZA - because you have received the allowance - is not an allowance. It is not an allowance by which, by increasing the amount you grant, you fulfil your obligation to the minimum level of living. It is an institution through which the basic social goods are secured just as long as the second pillar, which is not working because it has been mocked by SYRIZA and, of course, the third pillar that is working reintegration for those who are able to work, for those who have this possibility and who, instead of having solidarity, must be given the necessary job allowance and the opportunity to work. There are also weak people who cannot work. We are talking about goods and services and financial support. But the New Democracy should explain to us how it will increase the beneficiaries. Continuing a policy of poverty for small and medium-sized enterprises? So the increase of the poorer ones also creates the need to get much more of the allowance or to change the criteria by giving those with fewer needs as well? And one and the other cannot solve the problem alone. It requires policies of social justice, development, job creation and the establishment of guaranteed social income, as we establish it and constitutionally, to enable them to participate in the labour market. Unfortunately, the long-term or long-term benefits of a worker lead him to the social and employment margin. I now come to two issues where there is a great deal of hypocrisy on the part of SYRIZA in principle. We have also seen reports on Article 86 today. They were acquitted, he says, on the basis of Article 86 because they were deleted, because the government or the PASOK or the Change Movement, the JRC and so on. SYRIZA's this announcement. If we really had to render acquittal because of limitations in some institutional context, because something was turned from a felony to a flood, that is the codes. He is in the name of 'whose codes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u224	This Regulation shall enter into
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u225	We're not talking rope at the house of the hanger. SYRIZA comes with a lot of nerve to talk about Article 86 that had nothing to do with this case. In any case, I do not adopt either view. I'm finishing the contradiction and hypocrisy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little more time, Mr President. The second hypocrisy is in the way of the election of the President of the Republic, SYRIZA reacts to what the New Democracy proposes. But you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, gave the New Democracy the right to amend the relevant article only by fifty-one votes today. You gave that right! "We are not regular to do it," he says. A tacticalism is SYRIZA, and at this point he didn't want to do a setup? If that's possible! So the New Democracy comes and makes the disastrous choice. The President of the Republic, he says, is elected by a relative majority, a hundred and twenty-one MP. Do you have that idea for the President of the Republic? Are you mocking us that it's an institution, a symbol, and so on? It is unacceptable and you must at least at least at least drop it. We insist on the need for wider consensus. But with a relative majority? Is that possible? The filling you said at first? Or the oldest guy in the other case? Mercy with this depreciation of the institution! I close by placing myself on the same subject that has to do with achieving wider consensus with the independent authorities. Is it possible to keep going to a smaller common denominator? We'll get to zero. This necessary guarantee that the independent authorities should have the guarantee of a large majority of the Conference of Presidents or the respective body that chooses the persons must be thrown into the basket of inappropriate ones? It's not possible! We don't agree with these options. It's in the wrong direction. They're taking us back. In conclusion, I should like to mention the fact that there have been no constitutional provisions that are pushing towards the environmental and climate crisis and, of course, the synchronisation with the fourth industrial revolution and developments in technology that are genuinely opportunities and at the same time also risks, in order to strengthen opportunities and avoid risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, too. Mr Keletsis has the floor from New Democracy and immediately after Mrs Alexopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, in fact the debate on the Revision of the Constitution revolves around the issue of the election of the President of the Republic. [[At this point the IV Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] There are other changes which are proposed and which have secured the majority required to go ahead. However, this review is another missed opportunity to change some very important things that could change. We, of course, have proposed them in the Proposed House, but they have not been accepted. One and very important, in my view, is the missing opportunity to change Article 16 on the functioning of non-governmental university institutions. It was a necessary arrangement, at last in 2019, which, unfortunately, again because of the ideas of the Left Party parties, did not go ahead. We accept a reality, we accept many of the Greeks leaving abroad, paying there money. We do not accept coming to study in private Greek universities children from other states and strengthening the Greek economy, precisely because we are stuck in an idealism of decades past. It is therefore a lost opportunity in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution of 1974-75 has a dogmatic, legal and political unity regarding the establishment and functioning of the state. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 clearly stipulates that Greece is a Presiding Parliamentary Republic. The fundamental principle of our culture is the parliamentary authority, as well as the principle of presiding. But what does a parliamentary authority mean? That the centre of gravity of political life is the House. It's the House that's giving government. The government must enjoy Parliament's confidence on the basis of the principle of declared. Parliament also elects the President of the Republic under Rule 30. Is it random? Oh, no. It is precisely on the basis of the parliamentary authority that Parliament is the centre of our political democratic life. The 1975 Constitution, as it was first based, clearly had elements of the Presidential Republic, despite the fact that a direct election of the President of the Republic was foreseen by the parliament. I would remind you that the President could then appoint and dismiss the government on the basis of the old Rules 37 and 38, to dismantle the House when he found himself obvious discomfort between society and Parliament. She had the right to dismantle the House if she had voted against two governments. He had the right to refer a bill that was passed by parliament. He had the right to make a proclamation without taking into account anyone's opinion and still putting the country in siege. All these elements of the President-in-Office which, in my personal view, did not correspond to the principle of the President-in-Office, were removed from our Constitution by the 1985-1986 constitutional revision. The new Constitution has limited the powers of the President, who has remained a regulator of the constitution under Article 30, to a fully standardised form of procedure. Everything, that is, from how the government is sworn by the President, from how it takes the mandate, up to the dissolution of the House, is now completely standardized. Dimitrios Tsatsos in one of his writings, based precisely on the democratic principle and the principle of presiding, to which I referred, states: "This principle excludes those forms of reviewing the institution of the supreme ruler, which creates the institution of the function...", i.e. the President, "...substantial institutional intervention in the state's become". However, Article 110(1), which refers to the Revision of the Constitution and to what provisions can be considered, excludes those provisions which define the basis and form of the constitution as a Presiding Parliamentary Republic. In this sense, therefore, SYRIZA's proposal, which tells us to go to the people in case there is a deadlock in the election, is to the limits of today's constitutional order, the President-in-Office, because it is clear that, with the election by the people of a President of the Republic, this automatically gives the body of power and power, which, based on the overall spirit and the letter of the Constitution, does not have. In addition, SYRIZA proceeded with a proposal, without taking into account Article 30. It accuses us today of unconstitutionalism - and that was one of the issues we discussed, on the basis of our own proposal - and it does not tell us how it would deal with this dimension that would exist within the Constitution, where Article 30 would remain and would say that the President is elected by Parliament and in Article 32 we would do a procedure in which we would end up with the people, namely that the House would not elect it, but the people. It is an obvious disharmony between two provisions of the Constitution, which should somehow be resolved. In practice, how would that be? The only proposal, ladies and gentlemen, after all these thoughts, which are in line with today's general spirit, but also the letter of the Constitution, is the proposal of the New Democracy. Because, first of all, it fits with what Article 30 says, that the President is elected by the people. Secondly, it does not go beyond the limits laid down in Article 110(1) on revised provisions, i.e. it certainly does not give the President, the President and the city, the elements of presidential democracy, which the SYRIZA's proposal does. He also said Mr Kegeroglu, in a sharp manner earlier, that we are being accused by saying 'But will you elect a president with a relative majority?'. And today, after the deadlock and after the election, Rule 32(4), which we are reviewing, provides for a majority. It has simply intervened in an entire election, which has the following dangerous element: the President's election enters the party, political controversy and goes to the people, the parties certainly take a stand in favour of the person, so that when we reach the final election, this person, instead of expressing the unity of the nation, on the basis of the constitution, can express a division, a divisional reality. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the New Democracy proposal, which provides for a large majority, is a challenge for the political forces. Since, in fact, they will know that they will not go to elections, it is really a challenge to find the right person, which will guarantee a large majority - not a hundred and eighty, but a hundred seats that are needed in the first vote - so that the person that has those elements, who unite the Greek people, who will not divide him and who will always be the real regulator of our society, can be elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, too. The next sixteen speakers are Mrs Alexopoulou, Mr Maravegias, Mr. Xanthopoulou, Mr. Marinos, Mr. Tsavdaridis and Mr. Immediately afterwards, Mr Vlacho will speak if any of his colleagues are gone. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the election of the President of the Republic is one of the top procedures of Greek Parliament. The way of raising and indirect election of the Head of State play a very essential role. Today we are discussing one of the top changes of this Constitutional Review, which concerns the election of President of the Republic, Rule 32(4) and 5 and its disconnection from the dissolution of the House. The three initial votes remain the increased majority, with a view to the widest possible consensus, as has been the case so far. If they do not, the fourth vote provides for an absolute majority in the number of Members, i.e. a hundred and fifty. Although this proves to be fruitless, it remains the insurance policy of displaying and by a relative majority, which is essentially the last solution, as already provided for in the current Constitution. There will just be no more election mediation. In any case, the major is resolved. The disconnection of the presidential election procedure from the dissolution of the House and the premature recourse to the polls. This is a major political change. In the wake of the opposition, the weapon of early elections will be given the opportunity for the government-led majority, with a people's mandate, to complete its mandate and not be threatened by political manoeuvres. We all know what happened in 2014, when SYRIZA abused the institutions for its own benefit, in order to cast the Samara government. The circumventing and working of the election process lies in the behaviour of the Officerial Representation to refuse to vote for a person, even if he considers it capable of taking office, only to create a deadlock that will lead to the compulsory dissolution of the House. This is what SYRIZA did when he refused to vote in favour of the nominated candidate, Stavros Dimas, without proposing an alternative, simply aiming at an early election. His attitude was dictated by party purposes, in view of what served his interests at that particular time. He led the country to forced elections, which brought about a change in the correlation between parliamentary forces. This political and constitutionally credible behaviour has today led almost all the political forces, including those who have taken the worst advantage of Article 32(4), to converging for the revision of this article. The common location of the proposals is the removal of the President's election from the compulsory dismantling of the House. There are, of course, different approaches to the way the deadlock is removed. The government's majority, while respecting the institutions, is proposing the most realistic solution. SYRIZA's proposal for a direct election may sound philosophical. But it is an incomplete and incomplete solution. It is problematic, because it turns a parliamentary process of indirect election into a direct one, creating issues relating to the functioning and form of the culture. While we are looking for an increased majority and consensus, with direct election by the people, we are leading to the electoral conflict. The institutional perception of the Head of State is changed and could potentially lead to political instability and demilitarisation of the government in a major state crisis. The role of our Constitution for the President is not to govern, but to guarantee political stability. We are proposing the only possible solution to enable it to be achieved by avoiding possible adventures. The supra-party and united role of the supra-party ruler must be ensured and not be risky to end up dangerous and biasing. In conclusion, by making a comprehensive assessment, I would like to point out that this Review could change much more. While the New Democracy proposal was to have a debate on everything, with a look at the future, unfortunately, the previous parliament has limited the framework for the review process. For example, it did not dare to touch the crucial article 16, the question of the establishment of private universities, a self-evident necessity for the Greek society that has been a central proposal of the New Democracy on a matter that keeps Greece very back in relation to the rest of Europe for many years. Another opportunity has been lost for the Constitution to keep pace with the country's modern educational needs. Even in this narrow context, therefore, the government majority with coolness and a high sense of responsibility suggests provisions for a Constitution that is functional, its character and its procedures will not be the barbaric of party planning and will not be altered in due course. The traumatic experiences of manipulation of the institution in the past demonstrate in the most obvious way that our political system has proved to be inferior to the intentions of the legislator. The decoupling of the president's election from the dissolution of the House is a great institutional change of fundamental importance for our democratic city. No more party conflicts for a person we want to be a symbol of unity and national understanding. It is good that today in this Review almost all parties are converging even if they prefer different solutions. I really hope that in future the President of the Republic will become a climate of consensus with wider parliamentary majorities. This requires the role and the form of our culture, the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulos. Mr Maraveyas from New Democracy has the floor and Mr Xanthopoulou follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing two of the New Democracy's emblematic proposals on the revision of the Constitution. The first relates to Article 68 and provides for the right of parliamentary minorities to request a committee of inquiry. The second is the way in which the President of the Republic is elected. Although it relates to two completely different aspects of the population, both of our proposals are at the heart of our understanding of parliamentarianism, that is, what representative democracy means to New Democracy. The New Democracy sees the Greek Parliament as a source of all the central political powers. This is the common denominator of our proposals for the Constitution, the link that crosses all our political philosophy, as that which established democracy in Greece in 1974. This historic and time-consuming responsibility for the country is also shown today by the New Democracy with these proposals. We believe in the ideals of parliamentism, for the four years it has been elected, as the most genuine expression of the Greek people. That is why we do not adopt proposals such as those which have been heard about the creation of mixed'soviet' bodies which will decide, for example, who will be the President of the Republic. The only ones who can decide for the President are the elected representatives of our people. That is why we want to strengthen the role of Parliament, the top institution, which has accepted in the past four and a half years severely hit by SYRIZA. On the occasion of the New Democracy's proposal that smaller parliamentary parties should also be able to request committees of inquiry, I would like to remind you of something about the rights of the New Democracy in the Parliament over the days of SYRIZA. Everyone remembers what happened in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, when the New Democracy wanted to call Panos Kammenos and Nikos Kotzias to talk about the possible shelling scandal in Saudi Arabia. I note that, in January 2018, we did not even discuss an examination. This was a simple briefing of a committee, the freedom of movement of which is guaranteed by the Rules of Procedure of the House. But then SYRIZA denied Minority's right to call - be careful, even to call! - the Minister responsible in the House. That was your parliamentary attitude, expressed at the time by the incompatibility of Mrs Christodoulopoulos, a culture of ownership, deeply undemocratic and authoritarian that faced the Greek Parliament as a family shop, as our rapporteur, Mr Javaras, said this morning because you had put the opposition on the margin, an attempt to cancel parliamentaryism, which, in order for it to function, requires many views and, of course, requires the freedom of parliament. Ironically, then, to link it to our debate today, Mrs Christodoulopoulos has proposed to the New Democracy that a committee of inquiry be set up for Panos Kammenos, knowing perfectly well that the majority could stop it. But that is our difference, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We are not trying to block parliamentary minorities, we are not trying to remove rights from our political opponents. On the contrary, we are expanding the power of government control by the opposition. That is why we believe in the Parliamentary Republic and we really serve it. The New Democracy is every word of the Constitution and not the ones that have undermined Parliament and made the institutions a reality. Mr President, I would now like to go through the other great innovation introduced by the New Democracy by this review process in the Constitutional Charter of the State. These are the changes to Article 32 of the Constitution and concern the election of the President of the Republic. As the last relevant experience we had five years ago, it is a matter of vital importance, not just for the selection of the person that symbolizes the unity of the nation or for the head of the Greek state. This is, in fact, the credibility of the democratic culture itself, which is also at the heart of our proposal. As I said before, our proposal highlights and ensures the role of Parliament as the highest representative body of the Greek people. The House alone is entitled to a President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic to decide on the Head of State. The falsification of this power, due to the constitutional prediction of dissolution of Parliament in the event of a non-elected president with a reinforced majority, was, as we saw in 2014, a source not of democracy, but of an abnormality. Who does not remember the work of the institution by SYRIZA and the ANELs who then refused to participate to provoke elections, as it did, with the results known for our country? It was a tsunami populism that flooded the country, led by Alexis Tsipras and his then brotherly friend Panos Kammenos. I would remind you, however, - because it is particularly important today - and what had been a few weeks before this vote in this House: Newspapers, friends who are looking to SYRIZANEL for parliamentarian money, anonymous complaints about the existence of a opposition buy-out fund of EUR 50 million. We had then even MPs looking for a role of detective who was hiding this fund. And this is the well-prepared version of the buzzing, not to mention political actors who even participated in sketches of supposedly smuggling them in café hotels. It would be a pharmacocody, and it would certainly be right, but, unfortunately, it was such a serious issue as the election of the President of the Republic. Who was responsible for the party work on misery, then, became aware of it much later when, unfortunately, the damage had now been done. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the possibility of correcting Article 32, not of eradicating the past, but of changing the future. Our proposal aims to achieve the broadest possible parliamentary consensus on the President's face without giving room for political blackmail. This is because the threat of the early dismantling of the House, not only is it completely in contradiction with the objective of consensual election, but it can also lead to a reasonable minimum common denominator, where the parties will seek someone, not very gifted, only to avoid the elections. The counter-project that such a release will lead to the election of a party president of the Republic is not right. The Presidents of the Republic have always been political, but they have also had certain party advances, and this has been the case with the current theoretically extreme consensus-making system. This does not mean, of course, that we had the President of the Republic of organs of party interests, on the contrary. However, the system proposed by the New Democracy does not mean any partyisation of the institution, since the Constitution itself does not allow us to do so, while retaining an entirely distinct role for the President of the Republic within the democratic culture. With these clear ideas for Parliament and institutions, we support the proposal of the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Kyriakos Mitsotakis for constitutional revision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, too. Mr. Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr. Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am lucky that at the beginning of my parliamentary term, the historic juncture gave me the opportunity to participate in the top parliamentary procedure, that of the constitutional revision. Regardless of the excellent procedure that we have had in committee, the main factor is President Euripids Stylianides and, of course, all the representatives of the groups, I would like to say that today and this week we have a substantial debate on the major issues, which I still say are deeply political and ideological, they are not technical and they are obviously far from being ideologies. Firstly, the direct election of the President of the Republic alone does not change the nature of the constitution. We must be very clear when we talk at the National Representation so that we do not have a humiliated perception. The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities, who is insinuated by the majority, is in favour of the executive and only if the President of the Republic exercises it, and not of the way in which he is elected. So SYRIZA's proposal for the election of the President of the Republic, following a series of failed attempts to elect from Parliament, does not constitute a distortion of the constitution. We must be very clear here, and I want to hear counter-problems on this issue and not general references to changing the nature of the culture. There are states, there are democracies in Europe where the President is elected, who does not have the executive power, and there we have the President-in-Office. Secondly, it has also been heard that the President's direct election to Rule 30 is being confronted, because it says Article 30 of the Constitution that the parliament elects the President. And that's true. And for us it's a rule. The House will elect the president. If the successive votes fail, the Greek citizen will be assigned to elect the President of the Republic, and this will be done by way of an addition to Article 30, so that this kind of regulation can function legally. So this argument is not correct, that we are actually changing the rule that is elected by Parliament, because we respect this rule. Thirdly, it has also been heard by a previous colleague that, since Parliament elects the President of the Republic, who has limited responsibilities, and with a limited majority the parliament can legalise the President-elect. So we have a President of limited responsibility elected by a limited number of Members, and I really think that this is proportionality throughout greatness. It is not possible, in other words, to say that because the President has been dismantled from responsibilities, it is enough for him to have the legitimacy of the President-in-Office. I come back to the major and capital. The President is the symbolic expression of the unity of the nation and the President, in this capacity, must enjoy the widest possible majority of society. This is the major and presidential property of essentially expresses or must express the wider part of the national audience, because we must not forget that we are not only Greeks within the country, are also the outsiders. So the political system must safeguard it with the greatest possible effort and devotion, because a President cannot be elected by a marginal majority, or even less by a marginal majority, because if we have two Presidents and two hundred eighty Members vote, the President will be elected by a hundred forty-one according to your opinion. Does one of the majority Members believe that it is the President who is responding first to the spirit of the Constitution, the demands of the times and the needs of the Greek society? Are these the presidents you want? And in this way reasonably thinking, aren't we buttoned and vigilant? We see an effort to dominate all the institutions of public life and not to leave the FEK to the ultimate state of any kind of breach or institution you are not controlling. I understand it in part on the basis of political perception, but the President of the Republic must see it and show it as a point of unity. Is it possible with a hundred and fifty and fifty two votes that a President should be President of unity, such as expressing society, the nation, the symbolism required? So even at the last moment, I think we need to see this again, because such a President does not have the guarantees of unification of the system, he does not have the possibilities of balancing the system's operation, he does not have the framework for the system's balanced functioning. Finally, I would like to add another parameter which has not been heard. I have said it in the Committee on Constitutional Revision and I consider it a parameter of major importance. With the current regime of the increased majority, the President's only line of defence against the demands of the executive is his resignation, threat and resignation. We have experienced this before with Constantine Karamanlis and what he created in the political system of the country, and I imagine that no one can ignore that crazer that followed with the uniform and even-coloured lists. Today, with what you are doing, you leave the President of the Republic, because at all times and at all times any thought or threat of resigning the President in protest against the unacceptable institutional action of the executive to the detriment of those he represents, his rights, will be dealt with in a glimpse by the leader of the executive, whoever the Prime Minister will say to him: 'Come on, Mr President. Others are waiting in the order.’ This is the result of the President's minimum electoral base. We are not strengthening the President, we are not strengthening the institution, we are not strengthening the balancing function of the presidential institution, and that is why I think the New Democracy approach is completely wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, too. Mr Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece followed by Mr Vlachos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of urban constitutions, the substance of the current Review and the debate on these days confirm the positions of the Communist Party of Greece from the first time, the positions developed by our party's rapporteurs and other speakers. They confirm, in other words, that the Constitution condensates the interests of the sovereign, the bourgeoisie for the strengthening and perpetuation of the human exploitation regime, while the Revision aims at the armouring and stability of the urban political system, on the basis of new data, in order to make its unpopular functions more effective, to withstand the triumphs caused by the unsurpassing contradictions of capitalism and the power of class struggle. Urban governments and urban parties guard what? They preserve as the daughter of an eye the foundations for capitalism in the means of production, the privileges in big capital and relations with international imperialist associations, in which the bourgeoisie seeks to promote its own interests and does not hesitate to engage the country in wars and interventions and our people in great dangers. So this is what the Government of New Democracy serves, that is what SYRIZA, KINAL and other urban parties are serving. Some articles of the Constitution are very characteristic evidence, such as Article 107 ‘for the protection of foreign capital’, which gives huge privileges and provocative tax exemptions to logistics. The same applies, for example, to Article 28, which we are considering today. Our people must be informed that this article allows Greek domestic law to become part of Greek law and that the agreements and conventions of international imperialist organisations, such as the European Union, even providing for restrictions on the exercise of national sovereignty, should prevail. In other words, it allows sovereign rights to be granted to foreign centres in the name of national interest, as stated in the relevant article. What national interest are you talking about? What national interest is the Constitution talking about? This is the reality - in the interests of the bourgeoisie which is interdependent with the interests and designs of the imperialist organisations and consciously confers sovereign rights to defend its power. The national interest as a smokescreen is in the interests of the exploiters of our people, who in his name are abolished and circumvented by labour, wages, social and insurance rights, 'terrorism' and all sorts of repressive measures. Our people must know that under the responsibility of the New Democracy, KINAL, SYRIZA and other parties of the Euro-Atlantic arch, the supremacy of European Union law and the interpretation of the Constitution is recognised in the light of our country's participation in the Euro-Union structure, the European Union and EMU, with a view to labour rights. The Communist Party of Greece has called for the abolition of this article and for urban parties to be kept together. What does SYRIZA say? It says wickedly that this framework remains, that the substance of Article 28, namely that the granting of sovereign rights should apply, that the whole of our country's membership of the imperialist organisations should be maintained, and that the ratification should be by referendum. We leave the fucking government of SYRIZA with the referendum in July 2015, the conversion of 'no' to 'yes' for the third memorandum and we want to stress that political sins cannot be ripped out by manoeuvre and tactics. The JRC insists on the total abolition of Article 28. This article is 'nail-meat' with the same dangerous article as Article 27, which we want to say a few words about. It provides for the possibility of changing the boundaries of the Greek territory. A change in the boundaries of the territory means a change in borders and a change in borders cannot be foreseen by law or constitutional provisions. Border change is with concessions concerning territorial integrity or claims against foreign territories. The people need to think about and not to legitimise such forecasts, to continue their fight against them, the reactionary provisions. The same article mentions the possibility of a foreign military force living or passing through Greece on the basis of the relevant legislation. The advisability of the stay and transit of foreign troops from our country is obvious and we have lived with the strong American - naval presence in Greece and the involvement in the imperialist wars and interventions, with a typical example of the crossing of naval forces from Thessaloniki in the war against Yugoslavia, which angered and mobilised our people. The situation today is worse. We've turned Greece into an imperialist brigade. We have American bases in Souda and other parts of the country, we have the foundations created by SYRIZA in Marathi, Alexandroupolis, Stefanovicio, Larissa, which the Government of New Democracy has ratified. The Greek-American Base Agreement has hit an alarm! This also concerns issues of sovereignty. It is a meeting place under Articles 28 and 27 of the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You understand that no matter what you do, no matter what the bourgeois governments do and no matter what provisions of laws and the constitutional safeguarding of the establishment or transit of foreign military forces, regardless of the agreements signed by the bourgeois governments, our people will react, fight and claim their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Marino. Mr Vlachos from the New Democracy has the floor and Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, we have all witnessed this morning in this Chamber a procedure which has been afflicted by this House and, in fact, at the end of the debate I have been seeking to see what was the reason why this constitutional issue, the unconstitutionality of the whole procedure, of course, has been raised in this particular article. Look - and I am addressing SYRIZA colleagues - I said that as long as you insist that the New Democracy has exploited a trick, it has done something, as you said this morning, so unwittingly - you are deceiving your political speech and arguments, because, in fact, what do you admit? You admit that when we voted in the House proposed, you did not know exactly what you were voting on. And now that you've understood it, you've come today, supposedly, to save the pretexts by talking about unconstitutionality. But it was obvious that the New Democracy has put the change in the article on the election of President of the Republic to the table from early elections. That was the dominance. And that, in a way, you want to forget. Then you go in phase two, in the way you choose. I come in the way of election. But if you ever wanted to insist on changing the way in which you were elected or giving the opportunity to another method of election, that is, of the people, then you should have changed Article 31. And you forgot that. What do they look like? They show a confusion, that you entered a conversation that you didn't believe, you didn't know how you were going to go and where, in the end, you wanted to get there. Today you have shown an image of regretted. Of course, you can no longer reverse the flow of things, because the change of this article will take place. There is a certain majority after the election and it will be done. Instead of showing a bravery, however, that, in any case, you too are involved in change, since you have said something like that, you actually start whining, you start these miserable positions, you speak of unconstitutionality and you confuse the world. Let us now come a little bit on the substance. In the 1975 Constitution, speaking of two hundred and two hundred again in the second two hundred and the third hundred and eighty and then elections, etc. - the well-known procedure - essentially the constitutional legislator what he wanted? He wanted to lead the parties in consultation, to a consensus on finding a person who would serve the institution of the President of the Republic. That was the spirit and letter of the Constitution. But let us see, in the course of the years - because many years have passed - how many have served this spirit and the letter of the law. I will start from 1980, with the candidacy of Constantine Karamanlis. And don't tell me it was a weak nomination. After a few years, of course, at the Constantine Karamanlis Concert Hall, you were all exuding Constantine Karamanlis. Then, of course, a celebration. But then the opposition parties did not dare to vote for this candidacy. And you remember that Constantine Karamanlis was elected with an eighty-eighty-three votes. In the first election, therefore, you did not serve the spirit of the Constitution. And you didn't serve it. Then, in 2005, in 2005, it was, of course, the New Democracy election - as you did not serve in 2010, when we were talking about re-election of Carolo Papoulia. It was not a new candidacy, nor was it from the New Democracy. And you remember that the opposition then refused to vote, insulting the person in fact, saying that, before the elections, he is not a candidate worthy of the vote, and after the elections he can be voted on. And it was voted. These are the terminopia, then, and the last one we lived in 2015, when on the proposal of the New Democracy to the military opposition to propose a candidacy from the site, she said "no one". Does this 'one', excuse me very much, serve the spirit and letter of the 1975 Constitution? Does he serve consensus? Does he serve to reach the parties' understanding? So when you have given this sample of writing, we have the right to put you on the table the change in the way you are elected, so that you do not have the opportunity in the future to be exposed again. Because, obviously, you didn't get a lesson from it. In other words, no party can lead the country to early elections, because the parliament can't elect a President of the Republic. And today you tell us, but it is by a hundred and fifty, it will be by a relative majority. Obviously, today's constitutional legislature must anticipate all developments and difficult scenarios, so that the country does not find itself in a dead end in the coming years and cannot elect a President of the Republic. Because if you ask me, it is incomprehensible for me to believe that in practice there will not be a hundred and fifty Members, there will be no governmental majority, in any case, proposing and voting for the President of the Republic, not excluding the other parties from agreeing. That is the essence of our effort. Indeed, we are voting today on the change to Rule 32 on the election of the President of the Republic so that, as I said, no party can, in future, be tempted to play with the institution, but also with the person of the President of the Republic many times. Today, I really, with all the power I have, would like to invite you to let these misery go together and vote for the change of article with a large majority, proving that we can reach agreement on some top issues and send a message, which will be good for everyone, both for the parties and for the House, but above all it will be good for democracy. Because I would like to remind you - and I would like to close - that in 1985 the candidacy of Constantine Karamanlis was not supported for re-election, saying that the Constitution was the political child of Constantine Karamanlis and had superpowers cut and stitched to its measures. But Karamanlis served in 1980-1985 and did not exploit any overpower. He was a model President of the Republic. So finally, and then this claim was the cloak, the political wrap, if you like, to reject this nomination. With these issues, I do not think anyone is entitled to play either today or in the future. To be clear, to be brave in our decisions and to agree on what everyone on the wells agrees to be beneficial to home, benefits the functioning of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, too. Mrs Bakadimas has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Ms. Bakadimas from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this Review House could be an ideal opportunity to upgrade our country's charter. Unfortunately, the previous parliament has made an obstacle to our proposals, with short-sightedness and a weak vision. We have lost the important opportunity to change the map of university education in the country and to create an exportable knowledge industry, equivalent to tourism. Your ideals have lifted up to substantial interventions in modernising the real economy, with changes in our economic landscape, on the basis of the Constitution, even at a time of real poverty, which you have noisyly demonstrated with your wrong policies. But the people never forget that. Ladies and gentlemen of Officer Opposition, you are fanatical fans of Phariseeism. And I explain: Factors in the previous government who studied in private universities abroad and the West, taught as teachers in them, despised and combated the change in Article 16, although they had an institutional role to defend the great change. Athens, ladies and gentlemen, for this article, has been financially battered and besieged hard with the pan-educational hard condolences of 2006-2008. I am a witness to all this image that Athens experienced. In fact, it is the capital whose centre does not shine. And this is your work. With Article 21, we support, through a minimum guaranteed income system, the trunk of our society, the Greek family. The institution of the family was the lifeboat that saved the country's dignity in the years of the major economic crisis. The proposals of the Pre-Association House of the majority of SYRIZA - ANEL on the revision of Articles 3 and 13 on State and Church relations are governed by a disorientated ideology of the review process. This is an inappropriate approach, which affects our historical root, our cultural identity and our heritage. It leads to a state of religious neutrality, a foreign property with the worthy core of our Constitution. The special legal status of the Ecumenical Patriarchate, our Self-Government Church, Mount Athos, the distinct and definite relationship between State and Church, the absolute respect of the other doctrines, has, thankfully, been successful within the constitutional framework and has disproved you. It cannot be touched on the name of the abstract concept of the neutral state, the religious feeling of a people, the long offering of Orthodoxy to the nation, and the inviting struggles of people and clergy. We are, unfortunately, forgetting the great social offer of the Church over time but even today, now, in the period of major economic difficulties, by applying the well-known Memorandums. A great success of the present government and the present Minister of Interior is the facilitation of the vote of Greeks residing abroad, which was also a pre-election commitment of our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, as well as of the entire New Democracy. In fact, I displayed it with consistency and completeness as a member of the Greek Parliament in the period 2016-2018. The vote of Greeks, Mr Minister, who live abroad, is now equal to that of the voters inside the country, on terms, of course, and conditions that ensure the constitutionality of the procedure. This matter requires a national consensus, as it enshrines in practice a right that increases Greece and allows the Greek Parliament to represent not only the whole of the people, but also the nation, which we must not forget. In parallel to Rule 62, we restore citizens' confidence in politicians by tightening the immunity of the Member, as provided for in Rule 62. At the same time, the ministers are equating themselves to ordinary citizens as regards the limitation of criminal offences. The proposal to separate the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic from the parliamentary elections referred to in Article 32(4) is of paramount importance. A majority of Parliament's election is now presided over by an absolute or relevant majority, so that the democratic people's mandate does not cease to exist in a government for the appointment of a President with limited regulatory powers. History, ladies and gentlemen, has recorded that the current legislative framework for the election of the President of the Republic has been used as a pressing tool for political blackmail in 2009 and 2014, and has led the country to a memorial and economic catastrophe of the state, as well as to all of us. Sympathy and conscientiousness about the necessity of this change prerequisites a philanthropy of all, which I invoke from this Step. After all, his current constitution speaks out loud and even invites everyone to defend this constitution and its provisions through patriotism that distinguishes each Greek. In this way, we will be able to remove ourselves from the work of the highest ruler's election process. And that is a guarantee of political stability. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a key point where we need to take advantage of the opportunity to redefinite our national orientation and rebuild our national economy. And all this in a spirit of adapting to international developments, but also a firm obsession with the core of our democratic and worthy bases and principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS", twenty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 15th Municipal School of Mytilini. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides]] The Houseary Representative of Mera25, Mrs Fotini Bakadaima, followed by Mr Tsavdaridis, has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the third day of the debate on the constitutional review, a top parliamentary procedure, on the third, fourth and eighth chapters, which, of course, also contain extremely important provisions. Our buyer, Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou, has analysed in detail and fully adequate terms our position both in its present position and in the meetings of the committee responsible, with regard to the articles under review in these sections. I will only dwell on specific points of these provisions. Firstly, in the third section we have Article 37, which deals with the appointment of the Prime Minister and the Government. Here, as a PARTA25, we fully agree with the proposal made by the rapporteur that the Prime Minister should and must have the parliamentary status and in no case be a non-parliamentary. Our thinking is simple. It is not possible for the President of the Government, who is responsible for the overall policy on the issue, to define and deeply affect the future of all citizens, to not, in the end, be accountable to the citizens for any decisions they take and for any legislation adopted by his government. Below, in the same section, we have Article 68, which relates to the parliamentary and committee of inquiry. We are in favour of the committees that will aim to investigate and ultimately render political and only responsibilities from Parliament in the footsteps of the American impeachment followed by Congress. In no case, however, would we agree to dismantle the powers created by the pre-review committees. That is why Members - as we have said several times and other Members from Mera25 - must exercise only legislative power and it is no longer their duty to examine witnesses, to draw up indictments and to draw conclusions. This task lies only with the judicial officers, who can interrogate, examine, condemn and punish whenever necessary. It is incomprehensible and none of us would have consented to the institutionalisation - and indeed the constitutionalisation of Parliament. We are here as representatives of the Greek people to listen to their needs and problems, to seek and try to legislate on them and not to be here, acting as interrogators and judges. We are therefore opposed to any work, using the committees of inquiry and pre-review, as a means of party controversy and instrument for fulfilling micropolitical objectives. We believe that we must now stop feeding the propaganda of the media, which are often carried out with great pleasure in the fields of 'political' confrontation. The 'policy' I put it in quotes, because any other policy is controversy. At this point I would like to refer to the proposal made by Mera 25 for the creation of a body of prosecuting political and business crime aimed at effectively combating corruption and the inter-polar political and not only personnel, very clearly and in the domestic oligarchy, which tends to enrich even in the midst of a crisis and, in particular, in the middle of a crisis, the Greek people who are struggling under the magnification of the strict austerity policies imposed on him and continue to be imposed on him. Of course, the creation of such a body would put an end to the practice of converting MPs to prosecutors. This body would have full independence from the executive, of course it would be made up of public prosecutors to ensure that any action requires public intervention or a warrant, such as the opening of a bank account by the qualified police personnel who would have the necessary knowledge of new technologies for data collection and analysis, the monitoring of cash and all money paths. In this way, we would have the full distinction of powers and ensure that parliament maintains its acquired and institutionalised status. At the same time, and always with the programme commitment of Mera 25 for full democratic control of justice, the proposed body would be, or would be, if it were, under the supervision of the EPCP, the CouncU and elected citizens made up of ninety people, confiscated and elected citizens - representatives of the parties, depending on their parliamentary power. I have made this proposal from this point of view, in my earlier position, and I assure you that the proposal to create such parliamentary bodies will be heard by us for too many areas. Reverting now to the revision of Article 68, we believe that our position on the overall treatment of politicians, but also criminal responsibilities of political persons, is confronted with the general architecture of the Constitution and requires the revision of other articles which, unfortunately, are not under review of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, as a PART 25, as I said before, we consider the involvement of citizens to be extremely important either through parliamentary bodies or through binding referendums. Such referendums we propose that the ruling of the sovereign people should be added to Article 28 on the ratification of important national interest agreements and on the allocation of increased competences to international organisations, as in 44, with our proposal on the basis of the belief that it is necessary for the sovereign people to decide, by expressing their will in referendums which are binding and which will take place on matters of high interest in the country and following a decision by the absolute majority of the whole number of Members. In the same context, we consider it just as necessary for citizens to be able to propose laws, thereby opening up a channel of direct legislative initiative by citizens, an addition proposed by our rapporteur to Article 73. In the eighth section, the main article concerns the election of the President of the Republic. And here we believe that under no circumstances should the President of the Republic function in a pretext and actually become the pawn of a micro-political balance game, as we have seen happening several times in our recent history, and his unsuccessful election to lead to the dissolution of this House and subsequent election. We believe that political stability must be safeguarded in every way and that the state institution of the President of the Republic operates as a pillar of strengthening participatory democracy. Therefore, our proposal is, if we do not achieve an increased majority in the third ballot, then a special electorate should be set up in the PPC model, which will in this case be made up of the three hundred active MPs and twice as large as six hundred, confiscated citizens, who will vote and elect the President of the Republic. This underlines the institutional unified role and removes any possibility of provoking political instability and vague governmentality that the dissolution of this House and the subsequent elections could cause. At the same time, with our proposal, the popular will can be expressed without having a direct election, which would ultimately have the opposite effect, since the President of the Republic would end up, although in fact it does not have enough powers, taking more votes than the Prime Minister of the country. The debate on the Revision of the Constitution is a process which is not often done, and that is why we must move on to the necessary steps, not only to modernise the final text so that it can alleviate all the needs and orders of modern times, but also to give citizens the participatory role they deserve. The text to which we will end up should help and make it easier for everyone to understand that the Constitution is not a dry, incomprehensible legal text, but an intelligible set of provisions that everyone can understand without having to have legal knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, the spirit that prevailed in the debate and the resolution of the 1975 Constitution, as in most of the following review efforts, was basically consensual, as is appropriate in such an important process. That is why, as Mera 25, we have come to the committee with proposals rather than sterile criticism and opposition. The Constitution of our country cannot and must in no way become a field of micro-political discrimination and disagreements. At the same time, as I said, the final revised Constitution must have been modernised to disarm the needs of our time, the lessons that we have gathered from all these hard years since the 2008 Review to date, years that brought our country into the lap of the memoranda and the policies of a sterile austerity that finally turned our country into a devastated debt colony that now has to stand on its feet and strip off all the bonds that keep it back. In the last eleven years, we've been taught a lot. Amongst these, the need to defend itself through the Constitution of Fundamental Human Rights and, on the other hand, to extend and modernise the text. Undoubtedly, the 1975 Constitution was quite advanced for its time, but since then, several decades have passed and the data have changed. Therefore, all these structural and institutional changes should, we believe, be reflected in the final revised text of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u242	Thank you. Mr Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr Tsavdaridis again from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing a supreme parliamentary procedure, the revision of the country's constitution. A review that may not, unfortunately, involve Article 16, which, according to the New Democracy proposal, would make it possible to set up non-governmental higher institutions, nor Article 24, which would pave the way for more effective response to the great risk of climate change, yet there remains an absolutely necessary Review even in this context. The revision of Article 32(4) and (5) concerning the election of the President of the Hellenic Republic is of fundamental importance. An election which is a common place - and this is a pleasant one - must finally be disconnected from the dissolution of the House in absolute compatibility and at the request of the great majority of Greek society. A major institutional change, which must, of course, be in line with the basic features and fundamental values on which the institution of the President of the Republic must be built and operated as a symbol of unity and prestige of our nation. At the same time, however, it must be avoided realistically and the risk of a new work of the Presidential election to serve small and medium-sized interests must be avoided. In this respect, the New Democracy proposal for a final election of the President by a simple majority of the total number of Members is clear. After any four fruitless efforts needed for the first two two two two two two two two votes, then a hundred eighty and finally a hundred fifty one, to address a next vote to the same House and between the two majority. It shall be deemed to have been elected President of the Republic for the majority. In the event of a tie, the chairperson shall be deemed to have been elected as the one who raised a larger number of votes in the first vote in paragraph 3 of Article 32. On the other hand, by denying our proposal, SYRIZA talks about the need to find a mechanism to force consensus through a process of successive votes which forces the political system on the substance to find that minimum balance under threat that if it does not, the people will do so. In fact, Mr Janakopoulos has repeatedly urged us not to turn the President of the Republic into a arm, into an executive body of the particular parliamentary majority, describing our proposal as political and legal error, because he allegedly overthrows the present constitutional balances and all the spirit of constitutional architecture and the construction of the culture. Listen, Mr Janakopoulou and Mr SYRIZA's ladies and gentlemen, our proposal is the most sustainable and compatible with our constitutional framework of choice seeking consent, because the New Democracy's party has always sought consensus and never caused or forced the country into national elections on the pretext of electing the President of the Republic, unlike its political opponents who have twice used this supreme institutional process to bring the governments of the New Democracy to bear. In fact, Mr. Tsipras himself, who argued last year about the need to disconnect the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic from the early dissolution of the Parliament, is himself Mr. Tsipras who in 2014 led the House to dismantle in order to wrinkle the power of those who were ready to speak, but eventually proved completely unstable and dangerous in practice. But since you so much like to invoke the legal error of the proposal, you will allow me to highlight the following: Your proposal, as well as your overall proposal for the Revision of the Constitution, according to and with approved lawyers, shows the treatment of the Constitution above all as a symbol, rather than as the highest law of the state, which involves claiming a binding definition of the foundations of social coexistence, that is, practically, while at first level the symbolic view of the Constitution is expressed through provisions that seem to broaden democracy, in fact potentially restrict it. I would like to explain that the way in which the President of the Republic is disconnected from the dissolution of the House, as described in your proposal, proposes seven votes for the election by an increased majority and then recourse to the popular verdict. In this way, however, not only has the loose end been extended for many months, but above all they are involved in such a way that the process of direct and indirect election can lead to distortions. At the same time, the version of the election of the President of the Republic directly from the people is wrong, as he gives the President greater political power than his role justifies. Also, the great political power of the President, if exploited, can turn democracy into a quascism. In other words, it will be a President, who will be elected by direct procedures which will constitute an increased constitutional legitimacy, but without having the same constitutional powers to do the same, an intolerance that is incompatible with the constitutional framework which proposes the mandate by means of elections of the own legitimate political power to produce government policies. Direct election procedures by the people also involve the risk of seeing candidate presidents engage in election activities to communicate their political agendas in terms of controversy and not consensus, which, of course, is also contrary to the role of a President of the Republic as a supra-party symbol and a guaranteed broader consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the SYRIZA proposal poses the risk of decentralising policy in general, it poses the risk of a long period of instability and uncertainty by means of a process that will be a grasp of party planning and electoral pursuits, completely altering the concept of constitutional provisions. The New Democracy proposes realism, protects the institution, speeds up the procedures, closes the ears to the impasses that are allegedly involved in the unbundling consensus, recalling that the broad consensus on the election of the president has never become the norm. Moreover, of the nine elections that were held during the post-multiple period only three of them were consensual, namely those of 2000, 2005, 2010. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. We also recall that even with the current provision leading to the early dismantling of the House because of the failure to elect a new President, the new Parliament, which comes to an end, ends up adopting the President's election by an absolute majority or by an absolute majority. So the existing system in the final phase and analysis accepts the way the President of the Republic proposed by the New Democracy should show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Tsavdaridis. Mr. Tzikalayas has the floor, and then Mr. Dermenzopoulou, both from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, forty-five years have been completed this year since the restoration of democracy. Since 1974, our country has enjoyed one of the best democracies in Europe and in the world. This has made a decisive contribution to the 1975 Constitution, established by the strong government at that time under the late National Administrator Constantine Karamanlis, a constitution that has made a decisive contribution to our civilisation to be one of the most successful multi-party, parliamentary, pluralistic urban democracies in the world. The Constitution is the country's charter. It is the backbone of democracy and the culture. It is what the student swears, the student, when he obtains a degree in studies, is what the soldier, the officer, when he takes up a service, is what every official swears, when he assumes his responsibilities. So this Constitution has an obligation over time to serve. However, the Constitution is not Gospel for centuries, which is why the Constitution of 1974 played a decisive role in the Republic in the next forty-five years, but it had to be revised to be modern with current social and economic conditions. Efforts were made to revise it in 1985, 2001 and 2008, but they were incomplete and were mainly incomplete, because these efforts were afflicted by this effort, the need to revise the ideas of the other parties, which are diametrically contrary to our own ideology. In particular, if we remember in 2008, if at that time the government's effort had even worked out in Article 16 and did not have the obsessions the opposition had at that time, we may not have had the leak of scientists that we had in all the years ahead, the well-known Brain Drain, perhaps the situation was better. If we had non-State, foreign-language universities in our country, surely education would be much higher and these would provide a better level of study than foreign-language universities in the Balkan peninsula and in Central Europe. The New Democracy and our President, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, from the beginning, have declared that the Constitution needs review. We've been saying this since 2016. Efforts were started by the previous governmental majority, but unfortunately those decisions were not taken, so that today, with the Review that we are going through these days, we can achieve the best possible result. Immediately after the July 2019 elections, the country's Prime Minister instructed Euripidis Stylianidis to chair the committee that was set up, which processed all the data to bring the new Revised Constitution today, the country's new charter for the coming years. This result will certainly take us much more forward as a modern European democracy. On today's agenda we are discussing three sections, the third, fourth and eighth of the revised provisions, which have eight articles. Of these eight articles I'll be able to comment on the three. Rule 44(2) is what provides for referendums, referendums which may announce them on national matters, be decided by the President of the Republic, if they are decided by a hundred and fifty Members, while instead of serious social issues and up to two times in each parliamentary term with a proposal from the two-fifths of Members, that is, a hundred and twenty Members and, if there is a decision from the 3/5 of this House, a referendum may be called. I come to Article 32(4) and (5) concerning the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic is the guarantor of the country, it is the symbol of the unity of the people and our nation. The President of the Republic does not, however, rule, but guarantees. Recent examples show that we were obliged to take a decision to disconnect the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. We saw what happened in 2009, when the then opposition in the autumn of 2009, announcing that he did not intend to vote for the President of the Republic consensually in March 2010, forced the then government, which spent the second year of its term of office, to hold elections, with all the sad consequences we had from the ship and the charges for the country that it would go to the rocks until we arrived in the first memorandum in May 2010. The same and worse we had at the end of 2014, while the then government, the government of composition, which was three-party at the beginning and two-party at the end, under Antonis Samaras, wanted to find a consensual solution for the President of the Republic, but unfortunately the then-independent opposition was raped to take over the country's rule and led home to elections in January 2015, with the consequences we had in particular in the first eight months, which led to the inappropriate memorandum that led us to the most suffering. We know, of course, how much earlier the country would have found normality if we hadn't had an election in January 2015. Finally, Article 68(2) shows that the current strong New Democracy government, under Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, wants unity and composition in the Greek people and in Parliament. That proves the provision set out there. The role of counterpopulation is strengthened, as has never been done in the modern data of our democracy. In other words, 1/5 of Members may propose and if there is a majority of fifty Members, we may have a committee of inquiry. Even more, it does not only close the eye in Civicism for wisdom and composition, our New Democracy, our Government, but even in the smaller parties, in the fourth, fifth and sixth, who can propose ten Members, and if they have the consent of the two-fifths of this House, that is to say, only a hundred and twenty Members, a committee of inquiry can be set up and up to two such committees will be set up in each parliamentary term. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proud of our Government, because we are doing much earlier than we had announced the institutional areas and because certainly a charter of modern and democratic rights is the best guarantee of progress on the other issues of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-one students and students and two teachers from the 1st High School of Ioannina (first Chamber). The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, I have asked for the floor on a point of order, so that I can hear from all the parties, and whoever is watching us know exactly what has happened on a point that we have discussed since the first day. I would like to thank Parliament's services, because with their own diligence we now have a list, a full list of existing provisions, provisions proposed by the proposed House to be reviewed and the committee's proposals vacant in the last column, to be supplemented by the proposals of the parties. The Change Movement has submitted proposals for a number of articles. We thought that during the debate we were going to have with the other parties, because the inconsistent obligation of 110 to have the signatories, in order to put a proposal to the vote, does not correspond to our parliamentary power, we wanted to put together provisions so that we could have shocks and a common stance on the vote. But that is not possible. We have tabled proposals. Mer25 has tabled proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u250	We have also tabled many proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u251	You testified, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u252	Anyway, all parties may have tabled proposals. However, the two parties that can table, under the Rules of Procedure, are two. All right, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u253	My speech was of the opinion that we believed that with the debate that will take place day after day, the Scientific Service of Parliament will take the spirit of an attempt to find common solutions so that it can process them technically and on Friday that we will deliver as a plenary the texts to the Monday vote so that we can also be precise in the formalities. But that's not possible. Another party of the first two has not yet been prepared to submit its proposals exactly or has prepared them to submit them shortly later. Another party tells you that, since we are not going to vote on what we want, we will keep our own proposal, you too. We are therefore withdrawing from this debate. As parliamentarians and as a party we will look at the technical wording of the provisions which will be recorded in the last column of proposals. We did everything we could to be consensual. Isn't there such a desire? There is no objection, the two major parties will also assume responsibility for the formalities, because they are concerned. However, these will be recorded in the specific column of the document which has been diligently distributed to us by the service of our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Stylianides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I cannot understand what Mr Lover's objection and remark are. Our agreement by Friday is that we should have jointly formulated texts which can be a point of meeting, convergence and consultation between the parties or, in any case, a point of disagreement. We have ready proposals. But we're still taking a last look. The debate is running and we have to listen to the Members who are speaking. Everyone here is involved, not only as members of a party, but also as independent Members of Parliament who have an opinion. As the last Member speaks, we are obliged to listen to his comments, to his proposals and to take them into account. Of course, there is an intent to try to find convergences. We have been pursuing this since the first hour. I think there is no reason to raise this issue unless KINAL does not want to participate in this collective, synthetic process. This is a political decision, however, and it must be said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u257	Wait a minute for the Bureau to speak. It is clear that Mr Loverdos, on behalf of the Change Movement and the Change Movement, made a statement and took a position, that we said there would be a constant effort to find a common place throughout the process by Friday or Saturday and I do not think that that is the problem. It notes the Change Movement that this issue is either going too late or it finds no other party to consult in this direction. Mr. Stylianides, on behalf of the New Democracy, says we have time and we want to do this. I say do not go ahead with the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u258	Like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u259	I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u260	I'll give you the floor, Mr. Loverdos. Mr Loverdos and the Change Movement, let's also think of what Mr Stylianides says, if you want me as a Bureau, so that we can give ourselves a chance - that is the main issue - to see what we can do. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Stylianides has misunderstood. Besides, since this morning I've been seeing him a little aggressive and ready to misunderstand, even though he's laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u262	No, I'm not at all aggressive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u263	I did not comment on my colleagues. Mr President, I would like to inform you that Mr Gerapitris from the committee and until now Mr Tsavaras from the committee and so far, and Mr Katrugalos likewise, the rapporteurs, Mrs Adamopoulou and Mr Stylianides as chairman of the committee, have tried to contribute. I did not get my congratulations back to you, Mr Stylianides, but I said: When we vote on Monday we will have three hundred in the afternoon, i.e. if something in the Constitution has not been written properly and it has been voted as a matter of fact, I will not say 'it is not my fault, for example it is Peter'. We'll all be co-responsible. So because I consider the mistakes of this level to be human, but unfortunately and continuously, I have made the point that in addition to the findings concerning the report on the last pages, there is also the major event in Article 41(5), which should have been removed and which has not been eradicated and we will have it as a 'dead' article in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u264	And 30.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u265	In fact, I was ready to join, and in the view, although the JRC agrees, and although the other smaller parties agree, all three hundred agree, we will eliminate it, making it an excess of 110. I'm in a good mood. I have said since the first day to beg the Scientific Service of the Parliament on Tuesday evening with the first section, on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that we will end with the modules and have formalities, to give them some technical corrections. This can't be! We arrived Wednesday night and this has not been possible. I didn't say it was someone's fault. I did not disguise my colleagues. I said that if this is the case - I say it now to have good bills on Monday afternoon - we withdrew from this legislative work, unless they have to show us provisions by night, so that we can hurry to deliver to Mr Maurian a constitutional'material'. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u266	We do. We're ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u267	Good. It has been recorded, your objection has been noted, Mr. Loverdos, and what Mr. Stylianides said has also been noted. To be clear, I imagine that you, Mr Loverdos, meant the same thing, what I am going to say now, namely that all of us have a responsibility for the provisions that we are voting on 'in favour'. I have no responsibility for the provision that Mr Javarras will be voting on, say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u268	No, you should have seen it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u269	I will have seen it, but I do not vote for it, so where I vote, I have a responsibility. Where I vote, I cannot be responsible. I'm saying that for all of us. Of course, we understand your attempt to be these things as comprehensible as possible. Finally, I would like to say that we have seen the same problem for Article 41(5) in committee, but - if I am not mistaken - we did not say that we would violate Article 110. We said there would be a provision in the Constitution, which would be inactive. We cannot, for example, all agree together that this has not entered the revised matter, but we have seen it afterwards. I'm saying that, so we can get to know each other. This thing can't be done, because you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u270	Okay, I get it. Still, there's a good mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u271	I also thank you for the intervention. Perhaps it creates a greater interest in making a better understanding. Mr. Dermenzopoulou from New Democracy has the floor. Mr Pafilis will be followed by the JRC. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me as a new member of the Greek Parliament to begin my parliamentary term with the participation in the exercise of the review procedure, namely the competence of the Revision House to formulate the new structure of the charter of our constitution. At the same time, it is now a joint observation that the constitutional review should have as its main concern the improvement of the effectiveness of the culture and the deepening of our democracy. The recommendation to change the provision of Article 32(4), which provides for the dismantling of the Parliament in the event of failure to elect the President of the Republic, shall serve as a pretext. Under the current provision, the constitutional legislature sought to reach a broader parliamentary consensus between the political parties on the face of the President of the Republic, who, according to the Constitution, is also the regulator of the constitution. Unfortunately, the above provision was exploited and circumvented by specific political forces, to achieve short-term party profits, but with incalculable long-term costs for the country and the Greek society. Both in 2009 and 2014, the then-time opposition officer parties chose to "work" the presidential election, defying the constitutional check to achieve wider consensus. By acting manifestly uninstitutionally, they refused their effective participation in the process, thus leading the country to early elections. The intervention in Article 32 of the Constitution and the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament is curing in this respect a fundamental institutional weakness which exists today in the country's constitutional charter. It is also particularly good that there has now been a wider consensus in the revision of the article both by political parties and by Greek society. However, at the present stage of the process of mainstreaming the new framework for the election of the President of the Republic in a way that will prevent irresponsible political forces from succeeding and "working" democratic institutions for their own benefit in future. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, once again the Qualified Opposition refuses to be taught by the mistakes of the recent past. Its proposal for the election of the President of the Republic conceals micro-party purposes and is also characterised by a strong constitutionalism. More specifically, the introduction of six successive votes in the House and recourse to direct election of the President of the Republic by the people will result in the political system being caught in an environment of endless party conflicts and polarization, with negative consequences for ensuring the political stability of the country. At the same time, SYRIZA's proposal makes the institution of the President of the Republic entirely dependent on the party support, which clearly violates the Constitution, which requires for the supreme state ruler his role as a symbol of unity of the Greek people. On the contrary, our proposal, the New Democracy's proposal for a new procedure for the election of the President of the Republic, is clearly and absolute institutionalism. Four votes in Parliament, in which the first two hundred votes are required, in the third hundred and eighty and in the fourth hundred and fifty-one, ensure this necessary political time, so that the parliamentary parties can reach the consensus required by the spirit of the Constitution. At the same time, with the introduction of a simple majority in the fourth vote, the stability of the electoral cycle, which was the main reason why Article 32 is revised, is ensured. To conclude, the current review process, due to the ideas and the atomity of the parliamentary majority in the proposed parliament, has not included critical reform proposals for changing articles of the Constitution in a direction of institutional relaunching our culture and ensuring a long-term development logic. Nevertheless, the revision of Article 32 is an exception to that reality, which is why it is a first-class opportunity to have a positive change of long-term breath for the functioning of our political system. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] A wider consensus on this issue between the parliamentary parties can be the starting-up of a new, more hopeful and optimistic era for our country and our democratic civilisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u273	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis Thanasis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u274	On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, since the debate was held before and Mr Lovers opened, we would like to propose to the vote that the proposals of all the parties that have been tabled to the committee should be put to the committee. In the vote there should be the option of 'yes', 'no', 'no' and 'no'. In this proposal we are waiting for an answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u275	What's the matter with you all?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u276	"Let me slaughter it and then skin it." That's what they say in my village. Wait till you hear it. The issue of constitutionality is questionable. In order to discuss a proposal, it must bring the fifty people together. This applies to the proposal in committee. In plenary, even the late Mitsotakis when the Constitution was revised, he said there is a constitutional gap. If you're questioning it, I'll bring you the minutes. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] We, therefore, and particularly in terms of substance, but also of form, propose that all the parties' proposals be put to the vote. We ask you 'democrats' - within introductory words - which we say we are...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u277	Insert?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u278	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u279	You're putting us in for quotes? You've rejected us in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u280	Yes, in quotes, because democracy is not one to have 1 million a day and one to have 10 euros. That is why we have a different view of democracy. So, you, who are being cut and say that this is the top moment of the House, the Revision of the Constitution, why are you blocking political parties that have been elected and why are you preventing Members from putting their proposals for voting in this top vote? And let them be rejected. Why? We're waiting for an answer. Mr. Gerapitritis swings his head, I imagine positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u281	Always positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u282	And you, Mr. Katrugale, on behalf of SYRIZA and Mr. Janakopoulos, what were you saying in the previous Reviews? To put all the motions to the vote, all the parties. What changed today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u283	Did you hear us talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u284	No, I'm saying what's changed now. Will you defend yourself in the constitutional way Mr. Loverdos says? That is what we are saying, as far as the procedural procedure is concerned, and we are waiting for arguments. Today we are discussing the thematic section concerning the election of the President of the Republic - 'building a motion of distrust' - this is a Nobel Prize to SYRIZA, which invented it - and the rules of international law. We have noted from the outset what is the nature of the Constitution. It's a civil constitution. It preserves and preserves the interests of the dominant class that has wealth in its hands, international alliances, to secure this wealth and to participate in the sharing along with other imperialist forces, at the expense of the peoples. We also noted that all the revisions that have been made since 1975 are designed to ensure the stability of civil power and to be reflected in a constitutional form - there are no abstract things, Mr Javarra - the new needs of the system, based on new developments. That's what's happening now. Now what is the magic word, which here in particular, in the President of the Republic and in the motion of distrust, literally makes an eye out? It is to ensure governmental stability. This is what all parties, except JRC. All of it! I call it headlines. They also coincide with the proposals put forward by some for a selective body, etc. It's amazing and amazing. You understand, Mr. Gregoryde, what I'm saying. Government stability to whom, really? In order for anti-population policy to be implemented without interruption, which not only applied all the parties that have been ruling up to now, but - and this is the second point and very strong - have been committed by the memoranda, by the European Union, NATO, etc. that they will continue for too many years. Ninety-nine years isn't the fund? Will you abolish it from the New Democracy, where you were on the tiles? No, because the state keeps on talking and when you say, you mean that the interests of the bourgeoisie and monopolies continue to exist. Despite the various rugs made in individual things, one fact is that: All parties in the House except the JRC, you have signed the third memorandum and the people must not forget it. It was SYRIZA's third that included the other two. Isn't that right? Do not worry. Don't erase the story and the Minutes! Of course, you have given vows of faith - and you are giving vows of faith all and SYRIZA of asthma goes beyond right - capitalism, in the European Union, in NATO, in entrepreneurship. We're going crazy! Entrepreneurship is everything! What do you say to the world? Would you drive him crazy? Eleven million Greeks will all become businessmen? If they're all businessmen, who's gonna get rich? Who's gonna produce him, and who's gonna suck him off? Therefore, you all support the inhumanity of this system based on human exploitation, you all agree and support the thieves of the sweat of workers producing wealth and you want to perpetuate precisely this power. With this data, then, it is not strange - and it is evenly normal - to coincide all parties in the cause, regardless of the road. They have individual differences - SYRIZA, other parties - but the purpose is one: stable governments. The issue of the election of the President of the Republic was not random. We do not conspiracy, that the New Democracy and SYRIZA suddenly met and said to open this issue. Oh, no. These come from political choices. In fact, despite the conflicts that have arisen - slowly blood is said by us, literally - in the mornings, unconstitutionalism, etc., you say exactly the same things. What do you think? Disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of a Parliament and an election notice. What for? In order not to disturb the continuity of a policy. What policy? The one who breaks the people. So, then, SYRIZA did one thing on the finish line in the New Democracy, took it now and -- I'll say it on football terms -- scores. In opening this matter, everything was said that over a hundred and eighty did not agree with the election of the President of the Republic by the people and they did well. That's how the New Democracy found it ready, and it's coming now, and it's moving on to unheardless things. We have an opinion on the President of the Republic and we have made it public and it has nothing to do with the faces. The President of the Republic, a hard core of the civil system, signs and legitimises all decisions taken by the anti-Following Governments. Let me remind you of a word of Harilaus that he was told: 'Mr. President, how would you see the proposal to become President of the Republic?' And he answered, "What are you saying, kiddo? To sign civil decrees and civil law?’ This is our opinion on the President of the Republic. The New Democracy now also says minority vote will be elected by the President of the Republic and will end up in this extraordinary 'of the elder'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u285	We dropped it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u286	It's okay. And just put it in, it shows the intentions and you'll drink the glass now, you'll hear them. Think that was happening! Who would've given the solution? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Junior Birmingham! A year older, President of the Republic! A year younger, you've lost! Fun and inspections would be done with that logic. With this one may laugh, but it shows how insistently - ruthlessly, I would say - you want beyond anything else to ensure the continuity of this anti-grassroots policy, all of you, because you know what this policy is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u287	That can make you a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u288	What did SYRIZA do and what did he say? He took advantage - and he well did - of the inability to elect the President of the Republic to change the government. He was given that opportunity. He used it. Of course, that was dramatic and tragic. The word change has been altered. And not just alternating. Clean up where the other guys couldn't do it. And neither the New Democracy, nor the PASOK, could stand, nor along with the uprising of the people who existed against the barbaric anti-population policy of the memorials, etc. What social democracy has done throughout history - what Anelli said "when the Right cannot be done, there is the useful Left" - that succeeded even worse. He legitimized perceptions and ideas with the so-called left-wing cloak in the world and sent him literally to disappointment, such as entrepreneurship, as you say, private initiative, anti-Americanism. They thanked you for that. That's why Mr. Tsipras took a stand in Great Britain. Where'd he go outside the U.S. Embassy? And the greatest nerve is what he said last night. He said he's not a marathon to have an end. That's what the U.S. Embassy has been asking for all years. "Get the course for the Polytechnic, but don't come to the American Embassy." Laliotis had supported it - in fact, he was one of those who was at the Polytechnic University - but went unsaleable and continued this thing. And to fix it, he did something worse. He said, "Clinton apologized." You know, since the apology came out, the honor is gone. But apologies have a historical context. He asked for it when he was slaughtering Yugoslavia in 1999. The coalition then hailed Clinton to change his course of history. Of course, SYRIZA now says that by opening this matter and so on. To hide a number of things, he wanted to face neoliberalism. A very simple question. However, we do not believe that they are incompetent or that the SYRIZA executives and those around - are not smart. Well, didn't you expect New Democracy to come? You weren't expecting this development? You were expecting this development. [[Noise in the Chamber]] [[Protests from the JRC warhead]] You were expecting it well. You waited, all of this had been recorded, i.e. that history will evolve and the New Democracy will be elected. So what's there here? What do you mean? What's the law? The protection of anti-popular politics. That's why you opened the whole thing and leave it all behind. Second, what did you say? A constructive motion of censure. A similar proposal was made by the New Democracy for a four-year guarantee. By the way, the rest of them are slipping out. Don't you think he's going to make it a rhyme? Don't stop the government. You who love parliamentaryism and popular expression how can you agree to institutionalise - for SYRIZA - a minority government within the House? How can you say that a government that does not have the legitimacy of the House, which you have at its height, which does not have the popular legitimacy to continue to govern until an alternative Prime Minister is found? What's that? It's an abortion, isn't it? Why did you do that? Just for the oath on stability. I say this because you say a lot about popular legitimacy. It says New Democracy - SYRIZA said so before - we have the popular legitimacy of the elections. Excuse me. What legalization? How much do you have in the entire electorate? You have 23%. How much does SYRIZA have? That's what he's got. Maybe less. So what legality? With 23%? Secondly, SYRIZA says again, as an argument, that we are also putting insurance packages in place to counterweight the burden. What counterweight? Simple analogy. Why? Is it forbidden to become an anti-popular government? First, it's not just proportional because you put on what you give 10 percent bonus. Second, you don't put 3% on. Thirdly, does the mere analogy prevent any anti-population government from forming? Oh, no. I mean, it's not counterweight. That's what you're saying. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I shall finish, Mr President. Of course, there's an explanation here. Because if the system is forced - and it has proved - to make such a government, the two-party soup is spoiled, there are two - parties with the same policy, but they are fighting at individual parties. This also appeared in the oldest, but also in the recent political history of Greece. In other words, when the system was forced to make government the New Democracy - PASOK - LAOS, PASOK was crushed. The LAOS is gone. So did DMAR. And that doesn't always suit the political and economic system that wants different players in the same team. So one is the purpose. Any crack can exist in the system that the people will make use of to strengthen their struggle and move on to more general changes and overthrows, you are trying to close it from everywhere. As you did with Article 48, about the siege situation no one talks about, so is that. People's referendums, he says, are the second counterweight. You know, the hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. Referendum 2015: What do you choose? Shall we hang you or execute you? That was the dilemma you put in. And you stubbornly refused to ask a third question. And fourthly, that we as a Communist Party have put together with some stupid answers, that we do not have the right to make such a proposal and that the House cannot adopt it. Let's see this referendum, for which you're all saying things. Five hundred thousand signatures are being collected for a national issue. Who will decide whether to vote or not? One hundred and fifty. So beforehand, it's canceling. If 50 percent say that it is not a national issue or that it is not a serious national issue, it is cancelled and it is left with signatures on the hands. They're picking up a million on a social issue. Same. One hundred and fifty will decide again. It has its top 'except for the budget'. Why are you excluding these? First of all, you exclude them because in budgetary matters they are the immediate problems of the world that feels them in its pocket. That's why he comes down every day. And they're not all communists coming down. That's why he's protesting. That's where you're gonna eat black, how am I supposed to say it? If things like this go in, if the House allows it. One is that. Secondly, it is "mama". What's "mama"? The European Union, which defines everything, controls the budgets and everything else. Finally, I should like to ask SYRIZA a question. When we called for a referendum on Maastricht, do you know what we heard here in this House? I was the rapporteur of the Communist Party. It was rejected by the coalition after abomination. Because it is possible, he says, for the people to be taken away and destroy the European structure. What happened to the referendums in France, Denmark? They had them vote until they said yes. They never recognized 'no'. Isn't that right? Isn't that the real story? It's a mockery against the Greek people. And we ask all of you who sell patriotism. Even by referendum can the limits of Greek territory be changed? You're the ones who're all talking about home! Can they? Do they have a right to either reduce them or take foreigners? Isn't that what Article 27 says? And what does Article 27 say? That it can be passed by a law that will be passed by the majority of the House, that is to say by a hundred and fifty-one votes, to change the boundaries of the territory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u289	Six miles to be twelve.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u290	Is that the limit? And why not give one or two islands, if the Americans demand it and we will have a co-management in the Aegean? Isn't that a land reduction? Why don't you write 'the six to become twelve' and say 'nationality' in general? The territory is ground. It's a border. Don't go crazy now. We know what's going on, too. And we know what's behind all this, all these years. Why didn't you change it or not put it for review? Finally, George Marinos said in Article 2 that, without a law and an absolute majority, no foreign force, military force, nor can it live in it or pass through it. You PASOK, PASOK were as far as I know, now KINAL...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u291	Here we are all, PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u292	All right! Well, that's what I said. When you were a government in 1999, with what law passed by the Parliament, did you allow the crossing of naval troops on Greek territory? No one. And you write these in your old shoes. Of course, when you become an accomplice to people's murders, you do well to take responsibility. That's why the world was on the way back then. Second theme...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u293	Mr. Paphie, you've been talking for twenty minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u294	Yeah, did you see how the years are going through?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u295	And the years and the time. Don't leave us behind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u296	To end this issue of the most infamous patriotism. Mrs Benaki said that, unfortunately, in the coming years, with the developments that exist - and this she said about the overthrow of socialism and the dismantling of the Soviet Union, because they had a mind and they saw it - we will have to assign parts of our country's sovereignty to other centres and that will be disastrous. So you blame us for being international. We are internationalists. Of course we are. We're in the interests of all the workers. But you, too, are internationalists, and very deeply, with the interests of capital, with NATO, with the people's slaughterers, with the imperialists, with the European Union, etc. We therefore need to make an account of our country, of borders, of sovereign rights and many others. He's a master's voice. Piat's orders and you're hitting attention! Such patriotism!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u297	Mr Janakopoulou, because you have asked for the floor, I would like to inform you that Mr Fotilis, who is waiting very patiently, will speak as well and immediately thereafter. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Catrugale, you spoke this morning of hypocrisy and tricks. So let's talk about hypocrisy and tricks. First hypocrisy and first trick: you have given a concrete direction to Rule 32, believing that you would commit the next House. You showed, I'd say, an arrogant behavior, as if you'd behaved against primary school students. And, anyway, we may not all be university teachers or we may not be in the scope of an Evangelos Venizelos - whose absence you will allow me to say no more today than Parliament has today, it is becoming even more intense in today's debate, but in any case we are not students of primary school. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] We have answered you from the outset, with arguments that the bindingity of the guidelines does not apply. Our Constitution is clear, as is Parliament's Rules. The Proposing House proposes the provisions for review, the critical elections and the Revision House, with their fresh popular mandate, are being edited and formed. That is what the majority of experts say. The directions are needed, for the Greek people to know what they believe and what each political force embodies, so that, in the elections that take place, they decide who expresses them more. We've been clear from the beginning. You continued hypocrisy and eventually fell into the trap, which yourself, on your own, tried to set up. And we didn't throw you down, she threw you the Constitution and the defence mechanisms it has against hypocrites and gamblers, like your word. Hypocrisy and vagina number two: As I said, you have given your proposal specific direction, believing that in this way you will allegedly encroach on us. You ask us: 'Why did you vote for our proposal, since you did not agree with it?' The answer is simple. Because we did not want to throw another historic opportunity into the ballot. After we have made it clear that for us no direction is binding to the minimum on the next House, we have voted on your proposal, only on the need to revise this provision. After all, that is all the nominated parliament can do. We did so, because for us it was important that the provision should be revised and not the need for communication games. But let us assume, ladies and gentlemen, that we accepted your own way and tabled a separate proposal in a different direction. What would happen? The article would not have received a hundred eighty and probably even a hundred fifty one votes. And so today would not even be among the revised articles. You will ask me: How would that be possible? I will reply to you: just as was the case with Article 30. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, you have played the constitutional review in dice, not least with regard to the need to revise this provision. And you have today the courage to talk about consents, tricks and hypocrisy. Shame on you! Hypocrisy and vagina number three: We said this morning that we were surprised by SYRIZA's insistence on direct election of the President of the Republic by the people. This is because, since Article 30 is not among the revised articles, any discussion is superfluous. It is forbidden to speak of an immediate election, since Article 30 cannot be revised. And don't tell me that the revision of Article 30 is not a necessary condition to proceed to a direct election in Article 32. And then why did you bring Article 30 to a review if it was not necessary to revise it? Your aim was to pass both Articles - and 30 and 32 - in order to support your thinking. However, some of your Members, who are either not elected or hidden, did not allow you to do so, against both Rule 30 and Rule 32. However, you today continue to support the direct election of the President of the Republic by the people, while you know that this is not possible. And you are talking about the obligation of the House today to follow the previous direction, when the previous Parliament voted against the direct election of the President of the Republic by the people. Absolute hypocrisy! Let's talk honestly. The direct election of the President of the Republic does not go hand in hand with the form of a culture as President-in-Office of the Council. And wherever there is, as in Bulgaria, for example, only creates problems every day. The election of the President of the Republic is a procedure which should be as far as possible from party calculations. In accordance with the Constitution and with the Rules of Procedure of the House in Rule 140(4), the election shall take place without political debate, so as not to employ a strong party character. If we finally went to a direct election by the people, the only thing is that it would have been of a purely party nature. Consider that it would still be necessary to ensure equality between candidates. We would probably have had television matches, we would have debate, because there are no elections to the buffet. We would therefore have a party turbulence throughout the country and we would have a party president at national level, since the party dimension of the matter would have exceeded Parliament's limits. In the event that the elected opposition was elected, the next day is a given that the opposition would immediately demand the resignation of the government. Even more, think about what would happen in case the elected president, proposed by the opposition, disagreed on key issues with the government. Even if he did not have the authority - which he would not have - he would have a kind of fresh folk mandate. The problem of this proposal has not only recognised the political forces of the House proposed, but also Members of your own party who voted against the revision of both articles and of 30 and 32. I wonder, frankly, what is the position of your Members who have voted against your party's proposal to review Articles 30 and 32? Today they support your proposal or vote against it, as did both meetings of the parliament proposed? And, if they support her today, what is it that broke through and made them change their minds? I would like to hear, for example, what Mr Philis or Mrs Cassimatis has to say about all this, which both articles voted against in the House, and today they are Members of Officerial Response, or Mr Theocharopoulos, who even voted in one vote in the other vote. Of course, Mr. Theocharopoulos is changing views more often than Mr. Katrugalos! Seeing the list of speakers, I note that none of these MPs have hit his card to speak, he has not declared, and he is hiding, he has not shown himself. You, Mr Katrugale, do you know what the position of Members and your Members who had voted against the provisions in the proposed House is? In conclusion, even on this crucial issue of the Revision of the Constitution, the Qualified Opposition shows how little it is. Everything about her is related only to its micro-participatory purposes. It's okay, you'll have four years to rethink from the position of Officer Responsibility, where the people told you, your political tactics and strategy, to be more serious and more persuasive. We in the New Democracy, however, continue consistently on the road to the country's uproar, as we promised the people on 7 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u299	Thank you. Mrs. Lykoule from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a permanent pattern in the country's political life: the permanent election. It is an addiction to the process of elections, to their anticipation, to the calculation of the results and so on. It does not really matter how new a government is after all, it does not matter whether it counts for months, such as the current one, or years. The whole political system, the majority of the media, the ordinary citizens of the country at the workplace, the entertainment areas, homes, think, express themselves manually and act on the election button. That's how we trained them. Obviously, the democratic process is certainly going through the election process, otherwise, according to the perception of the current political system, there is no democracy. As usual, however, we, as a people most of the Mediterranean, have this taperon, emotional and spontaneous, and also keen and refuse to submit to the normal institutional norms of the other Europeans and the stability that they usually see, differ. And, apart from our neighbour Italy, which is playing our part on a level playing field in the frequency of elections, we are very different from the rest of the Western world's democracies. With today's package of amended provisions, we thankfully do something about it. We are killing a part of our political impulse in order to obtain a rational electoral cycle. Obviously, the amendment of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 32 on the election of the President of the Republic will not save us completely from the beloved habit, namely the interruption of the work of a government before the completion of the four-year period. However, it is - we must admit it - one step, despite the voices and conspiracies which have been heard this morning about objections of unconstitutionality. They're unprecedented, unprecedented. My congratulations on that. It was something that we will study very carefully. How you thought about it is an originality. However, it could not be done otherwise than to move on. There have been, you see, the dramatic events and our recent political history, the winter of 2014 and 2015 and shortly thereafter, which suddenly was interrupted for a period of exceptional importance for the then effort that the country has made to correct and escape from the rocks of bankruptcy and the rocks of the memoranda, which inevitably accompanied it. It was a period when SYRIZA, who raised the objection today, reminded, and his political allies, taking advantage of the most institutional gaps in the Constitution at the time or, if you like, of provisions referring to other, more stable and less dangerous political times, managed to climb into power, with everything that meant for Greece. The consequences of the government's rotation are many and not common. We all remember then the disgraceful dismissal of the previous government. Then we remember the Latin type popular taste of support for the new government of SYRIZA - ANEL in Syntagma Square, with a view to negotiating the new terms with partners. That's what it was called. We remember the notion of the impertinence of the shirts of the then "economy" Mr Varoufakis, your current sworn enemy, and the analyses of the importance of Eurogroup and Euro Working Group, where they were played on the dice, in terms of Greek representation, the fates and the future of the country. What should I first remember? That false referendum, with the incomprehensible question put to Greek citizens, whose result the government did not hesitate to dismiss it and use it at once? Our history is all these, recorded publications, historical texts, documentaries. We remember, then, the capital controls that followed, with the citizens resurrecting to ATMs, in order to ensure the financial instalment of the day - EUR 60, I remind you, because you did not take so much - the collapse of all kinds of commercial and business activities, once again sacrifices. We remember even 0.5% of the low growth, which, however, we have never been able to see if it was to happen, as it all seemed, after being followed by your own minus 1.5% and minus 2% of the next few years, then - I would remind you - that Hardouvel's mail began to look like a simple aspirin in front of the deep and heavy 'chemotherapy' that you prepared with the third memorandum, the infamous President of the then Parliament, the absolute benefit of parliamentary procedures through institutional capsules starting at dawn, the images of shame, to sleep in the morning's plenary sittings exhausted, the third toughest memorial, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officerate, to carry out multiple assessments in order to justify your unjustified and first and foremost self-substantially. That's why I have a sensitivity when I hear about anti-constitutional objections. Fortunately, this is all over. The valve of the pot of popular anger against the old political system was decompressed. It decompressed, you know, when citizens found that young people had neither "leaf trees" nor new ways to blackmail our economic partners, as they promised. They did not shave the memorials, neither with an article, nor withdrew them. So when a majority of citizens realised that the country should remain within Western and European reality, it seemed that your own political age began. I am, of course, speaking in relative terms and not absolute. Of course, that cost us more, 60 to 70 billion euros, according to conservative calculations, 100 billion others say. In any case, an institutional gap in the Constitution - that is what history says, I would remind you of these - an old provision has cost us someplace that much. It seems that, even though it is difficult, gradually, we are grown up as a political system. A difficult adulthood is itself of unscrupulous children, I dare say myself of the unscrupulous peoples. This is what we are curing today with the amendment of Article 32(4) and (5) of the Constitution, and fortunately we heal it together and let the further proposals of our Movement not be accepted, which would be even more effective in insurance in order to avoid everything that has been said historically. It is therefore possible that I go through some of the amended provisions, with references to titles. I understand Rule 68(2), which deals with the highest form of parliamentary scrutiny, namely the setting-up of committees of inquiry. The proposal for a revision was voted, during the respective procedure of the previous Parliament, by two hundred forty-seven Members. The provision will therefore be revised. The Committees of Inquiry therefore enter as a tool for parliamentary scrutiny and the opposition patronage, with the necessary institutional assurances that the recommendation will not lead to the inflationary use of the institution and thus its fatality. Limiting the only two proposals from the opposition standpoint that will be accepted in each parliamentary term is a choice of seriousness, which should lead to careful weighing of impartiality. And fewer bugs we'll have and less polarization we'll have. And finally, another example of the partial ageing of our political system in Article 37(2) - SYRIZA's request - called for it to be a prerequisite for a Prime Minister's appointment of his parliamentary capacity, an amendment which we disagree with as a Movement. And we disagree, ladies and gentlemen, because we cannot allow an ideal to be institutionalised at constitutional level, reducing the flexibility of democracy to find solutions in cases of political deadlock. After all, SYRIZA's proposal only brings features of political revancism in the face of Mr. Lucas Papademos. Why hide it, anyway? That's it. I remember, however, that in cases of a massive decline in the majority of Members, as happened in 1936, SYRIZA's proposal would in no way prevent the Prime Minister from taking up his office by a politician, of the type of Metaxas, who, when he destroyed the democratic population, with the agreement of the then Parliament, was also the Member and leader of a small party. Well, then, we do not consent as a House to such a rough and pointless proposal. And, of course, the good practices of foreigners cannot only have a priori practical value on our part. They must be introduced targeted and buttoned in our reality. It would be useful to accept another view, but it only took a hundred and fifty-nine votes in the previous House. This was the former colleague, Mr Dimitris Cremastinos. It was not accepted at that time by the New Democracy, and I think you were wrong about that. The professor had argued that in the event of the Prime Minister's failure to carry out the prime minister's duties, for health reasons, a definition of Deputy Prime Minister. It was a good suggestion. The background to this proposal was based on a historic event in the events of '95-96 with the most serious illness of the then Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou. You know in this world no one has the guarantee that a whole four years will have uninterrupted health, even if it is Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u301	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st High School of Ioannina, the second department. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u302	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's proposal, as it was recorded in the Proposed House, but also in the debate to date in the Review House, is based on a specific legal thinking. This is a proposal for a review of articles which have internal cohesion and linkage between them, and I will, as far as possible, try to explain, at least one section, specifically concerning the architecture of the organisation of the political system, which is exactly what internal cohesion is doing so. The guiding thought was and is to create conditions for strengthening the democratically legitimised government towards institutions that do not draw their legitimacy directly from the people, because the modern world treaty is characterised by the emergence of centres of political and economic power that operate independently of the people's will, by using special methods of discipline. The European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission in recent years have just exercised such disciplinary powers in the country, through the monumental technology and under the constant threat of bankruptcy. It is another matter that there were governments which took up the package and the package of measures proposed and finally imposed by these external coercive institutions and discipline and another by the SYRIZA Government, which, after the six-month negotiation, was certainly led to a political compromise, but was never taken into account politically and, if you like, this package, this package of austerity measures. In fact, we should point out to many colleagues who insist on calling the third memorandum as the third and worst-case Memorandum, that this package had, as a whole, a budget adjustment of around EUR 5.4 billion, when the budgetary adjustment made by the two previous governments, in any case, was at the rate of EUR 65 billion. Now, how is it possible to compare the EUR 5 billion to the EUR 65 billion and to say that the EUR 5 billion is more than EUR 65 billion? It may be related to special mathematics, which are practised in the New Democracy, where - to remember the late Constantine Mitsotakis - zero plus zero probably does 14%. It is precisely this Memorandum technology that offers experience and raw material to lead to a proposal for a Review that makes this experience a practical policy and leads to concrete proposals to amend the Constitution, which take into account the possibility of optimising it. But look at one more thing. These disciplinary functions, which are carried out by specific mechanisms, are not related to the Memorandum of Understanding alone. A corresponding function is performed in the conditions of supposed regularity and international money markets, and they do so through the special role of debt and its service in modern global architecture. What is this new global architecture? The one that determines the interest rate as a mathematical expression of the credit risk and therefore the markets operate in a disciplinary manner, saying that if you do not implement it as a government of alpha, beta, gamma specific fiscal, labour or other policy, this will lead to an increase in interest rate, which will eventually force you to implement what I have decided to be technically correct political measures. From this global discipline no one can escape, whether they are part and member of a supranational organization or not. This global architecture is ruthless, and it is precisely for this reason that in a modern parliamentary democracy the terms of strengthening the government towards the disciplinary coercive functions of this global economic architecture must be found. So the SYRIZA proposal just strengthens the democratically legitimised government through two first-time choices. Firstly, to promote the constructive vote of distrust and, secondly, to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. Take note, however, and this is an important element: this proposal does not aim without anyone else to strengthen government stability or to see government stability as self-evident for the parliamentary system. Of course, government stability must be weighted as one of the aims which the Constitution must serve and its arrangements with regard to the organisation of the political system, but that is not the only objective that we need to take into account. On the other hand, we must also take into account many other objectives. And it is precisely these other objectives that may be more important than government stability. And that is why, at the same time as we call a constructive vote of distrust and disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House, we add something else: firstly, the simple analogue and, secondly, the popular referendums, which I see, are treated in a way that reminds us of an aristocratic manner of politics, an aristocratic concept, namely, that the referendums pose a risk that the people will not understand, that the people will not be taken away, that the people do not have the common sense, the one they need each time to make the right decision. It is only in democracy that the only indicator of the rightness or inappropriateness of a decision is the will of the people. This does not mean that we should not take into account fundamental, moral and political weightings. But, in the final analysis, to deprive the people of the opportunity to decide, because it might be wrong, this can lead us to the systems of political organization that have nothing to do with democracy in the end. So the SYRIZA proposal is a single proposal, which takes into account precisely the current challenges of parliamentary democracy and with which parliamentary democracy is confronted, and it can and does try to give answers precisely to the stronger democratically elected government. I had to point out all this because there is a interpretation that SYRIZA, the SYRIZA proposal, is in agreement with all the sacrifices to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. That is not true. SYRIZA does not agree without anyone else with the disconnection of the presidential election from the dissolution of the House. It sees this arrangement as an element of a broader draft of amendments to the Constitution, which has a specific legal thinking. It is not alone, cut off from the rest of the proposal we are tabling. In other words, it cannot be seen as being cut off, for example, from the acceptance of mere analogous, for example, by the acceptance of the amendments relating to the strengthening of popular referendums and the possibility of intervening in the core of the decisions of modern democracy. We therefore need to see this whole proposal as a single and coherent whole. Now, on the substance of the matter currently dominated in the debate and it is no other than the special arrangements governing or going to govern the election of the President of the Republic: the constitutional situation, as it stands today, provides that, if the increased majority required for the election of the President of the Republic in the current Parliament are not achieved, elections will be broken down, two votes will be followed, with the aim of eighty-eight Members, who, if they do not, then and only exceptionally, will be led to the election of the President of the Republic either by a hundred and fifty-one votes or by a relative majority. But there is a crucial element here, which differentiates the constitutional situation today in relation to the proposal of the New Democracy. And that is nothing more than the mediation of the electorate, from the mediation of the elections. So today's constitution provides for the possibility of electing the President with a hundred and fifty-one votes, but that is what the political system has been through since the suffering of the democratic electoral process. We have here, in other words, a regime which provides incentives to political parties if we want to see it from the positive angle. If, however, we want to see it from the negative angle, it is a threat to the elections, that if they do not consent, we will be led to the dissolution of the House. And this is a threat, obviously, to the government in question, which should have an incentive to go to consensual solutions with the opposition. So we have here a mobilisation from the point of view of constitutional regulation to the political forces, with a positive or negative sign, in order to consent to the President of the Republic, that is to say, to consent to the person which regulates that the rules of political game, at least as reflected in the constitutional text, will be respected. Two comments: Why is consensus necessary or, at least, why is it necessary for the Constitution to provide incentives for consensus? I said that just before. The President of the Republic, in addition to these splendid expressions, is the symbol of the unity of the nation and various other extremely interesting interests which have been heard, are, in fact, in a system such as parliamentary democracy - which is primarily defined and determined by the Treaty of political competition - the minimum degree of equilibrium between the political forces. It is wrong to say that the President of the Republic, allegedly, after the 1986 Review, has been to such an extent far removed from his powers so that he does not play any role. I think it's absolutely wrong. On the contrary, the President of the Republic still has serious regulatory powers, which guarantee that precisely the rules of the game under the conditions of the transition of the political system from one phase to another, namely at the time of the elections and from the time of the elections, will be respected. This means that he must enjoy at least minimum confidence on the part of the political parties, so that no political or other types of contempt are created in his motives, in his ideological purposes, and that he must be a person enabling the political forces to at least have the elementary confidence that he will play the role of regulator at the moment of the transition. All of this is extremely critical of the way in which we understand the role of the President of the Republic, but also of what we are proposing. One parentheses, second comment: I hear a number of critical comments about the right, correct, choice of SYRIZA in 2015 not to consent to the election of the President of the Republic and to lead the country to elections. I have two points to make here. The Constitution, as I said before, gives incentives for consensus. It creates conditions to seek consensus from political parties. Whether or not it is achieved is ultimately a matter of the political assessment of each party. If, therefore, a political force chooses, on the basis of the present constitutional situation, not to consent, then it will be judged. And will be judged by the final judge of all of us, the people. That is to say, the central rule of democracy, which is no more than the political cost. And what happened in 2015, when the SYRIZA Three-SYRIZA chose not to consent to the choice of a person for the Presidency of the Republic? Parliament was dissolved, we were led to elections, and this option was welcomed by the electorate, highlighting SYRIZA as the government of the country. "Greatly right," the Greek people told us, "you did not allow the catastrophic Samara government to continue its work." I am now returning to our proposal, which, I say, is unified. I have heard one more comment, that the New Democracy does not consent to our proposal, which provides for the immediate election of the President of the Republic by the people, exceptionally alone - and I will explain immediately after what I mean - because, allegedly, New Democracy respects the separation of powers. In other words, you want to tell us that in 2014 - and the Special Rapporteur of the New Democracy said so in his place, you can look at it in the Minutes - when the New Democracy had tabled its proposal for a direct election of the President of the Republic by the people, it did not respect the separation of powers and today, in 2019, it respects them. You see, then, that this type of business acrobatics do not help the debate go a step further. So what does SYRIZA's proposal say? It says that, by disconnecting the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament, we need to find those incentives that create "comfort" conditions or mobilisation of the political forces in order to consent to a minimum of equilibrium. How does this proposal do it? It says that since the first three votes have not achieved the increased majorities, from there on, for six months in a row, the political system will be subject to investigation if there are conditions and conditions to agree on a person who has at least 3/5 acceptance of the House. This means that no political force, since there is no incentive, if you like, of the dissolution of the House to bring about a government change, will enter the process of not consenting to a person who is the least equilibrium, because he will have nothing to gain from it. It is therefore only as a threat that the possibility of a direct election by the people of the President of the Republic, who operates as an exceptional, last resort, may lead to a direct election. So here I come to reply to a legal, technical question which has been raised, I think: how is the SYRIZA proposal compatible with the fact that Article 30 says that the President of the Republic is elected by Parliament? The answer is very simple. SYRIZA's proposal provides for the election of the President of the Republic by Parliament as a general rule and only exceptionally - which means a specific case in relation to the general rule - it provides for direct election by the people. So here we have the very legal construction of the general to specialists, the rule with the exception. Article 30 provides for the general rule, which is followed only as an exceptional solution, which proposes the direct election of the President of the Republic by the people, in order precisely to ensure that such a prospect operates as an incentive for the consent of the political parties. Therefore, a legal, technical, interpretative issue in relation to the consistency of constitutional provisions is not raised. What is being proposed is the political substance. And what is the political substance? The political substance - to close, because I have exceeded my time by four minutes - is that the New Democracy wants to do this. As in a series of other institutions, for about four and a half months now, its political objective is to control public life. Whether we're talking about the state at last, whether we're talking about the CEC or about individual, if you want, institutions and functions in public life, New Democracy seeks their suffocating control. I could name a whole list of such choices that have been made in the last five months. I'll suffice to three, four. See what you've done with S.H.I.E.L.D. See what you have done in all the ECJs. See what you've done at the C.E.E.L.D. See what you do at the State Theatre of Northern Greece. See what you did to the ERT, who you blamed SYRIZA for allegedly creating a party propaganda mechanism. What you chose was to put in charge of ERT the Director of the Press Office of Mr. Mitsotakis, when Mr. Mitsotakis was Chief of the opposition officer. And you blamed SYRIZA for allegedly attempting to control ERT, that is, things that do not in any way stand and through any attempt to distort reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Janakopoulos, you've reached twenty-one minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u304	The accident here is that this logic of suffocating control of institutions and public life is trying to implement it in the Constitution itself, and with your unacceptable proposal, which actually upsets the constitutional balance as it has been shaped over the last forty-five years, you are trying to turn the President of the Republic into a party arm. This is extremely dangerous for parliamentary democracy. It changes the conditions for the demolition of the civil society, changes the whole process and creates conditions of enormous suspicion, even greater than today, among the political forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Janakopoulos, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u306	You choose this type of division, and that is why I urge you to reconsider your proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u307	Thank you. Mr. Marcopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the popular referendums are a good one, and it is a question of not becoming populist. To remind you that in the 2015 referendum the Greek people had a period of political fermentation just one week. What if this is a popular referendum, then what is populist? The constitutional review process, this historical history of parliament and democracy at the moment, finds the country in a completely new phase. It finds Greece in an effort, in a period of wound healing, for which all those who have clearly been dissatisfied. I am talking about those who sprinkled the seeds of the conflict, which were divided, who went to the logic of 'both they or us' or the most modern - we have heard this in the last election procedure -'many and few'. Now, of course, that we are many and few became few, things have changed. The Constitutional Review, a process which must be our roadmap for the future, is, of course, a new course in the country where optimism has returned, where a serious effort is made to overcome the gaps. But time, because we have to be right, they're not exactly with us. And it's not, as since the rhetoric of hatred and segregation have only spent a few months. Consensus has not been fully attained. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not lie to the Greek people and to ourselves. Lies are for others. We know them, we met them. We must, as a political system - and we must - go into this process more balanced, more united. I have heard before Mr Janakopoulos that it is the pompous message of national unity, of the unity of the nations. Of course, unity of the nation is not simple. It is the issue and it is what should be our real objective. Therefore, we do not confuse things which are very important and particularly in a country that divides them into its DNA. Sadly, therefore, this affinity of splitting, which is all scanning them, the pathogen of our tribe, fuelled by specific political forces, has left us not the room we wanted. This division, sovereignly, was fuelled by the inability to elect the President of the Republic in 2014 and early recourse to the polls. You'll tell me that others have told me. We'll see you too, because, you know, we don't forget 2015. We won't erase it because some people suit them politically. I've seen an attempt by SYRIZA lately not to exist in 2015. You know, in the diary this year will remain. It is about the inability of part of the political system to understand the challenges of the time and the bluntness of some for power, by wrong persons who have not moved into the logic of the national system - I repeat, why the national - patriots, patriots, but who have moved in the context of the narrow party, the context. That was our recent story. Don't be ridiculous. And a democracy, when it wants to move forward, must recognise the mistakes and be aware of its recent history. One of the most important chapters of the ongoing constitutional review is that of the election of the President of the Republic. These days, unfortunately, we have not seen the consensus that the people need themselves. Because some are easily referred to the people, but eventually the people have other demands. To admit, too, that our designs or, more rightly, our dreams and pursuits as a New Democracy, for a more complete, modern Review, have not been successful in full. Clearly, we were more ambitious. Clearly, we wanted a greater consensus. But again, they were lost to the mazes of their personal designs, their need to look different and to put back divisive or new dilemmas to the Greek people. But again, as a power of responsibility, the New Democracy has chosen to make concessions. Let's recognize it. In democracy, there is this game. Composed, we tried to throw bridges, not to split, as others split. Dear friends, the issue of the election of the President of the Republic has been a operative cause of division, not unity. There was a matter of polarization, tactics and purposes. But a democracy under the extortion regime is not a normal democracy. It is a rather natural democracy, a democracy of the backgrounds, which is inappropriate to us Greeks. With your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, we have lost the historic opportunity to establish private universities. Today is missing - we all know - two top articles in 16 and 24, so we have to wait for about ten more years. Some people did not want to look in the faces of the 21st century and stay where they are ideoleptically stuck in the 20th. Idealism is called this and denial of the future. In 2014 - again on your own responsibility - we threw the opportunity for rapid recovery of the country, with the insistence of the SYRIZA, under conditions of polarisation, not to elect Stavros Dimas at that time. Then Greece entered adventures. The result was the third, unnecessarily memorable memorandum. And not to say again that the Greek people chose and rewarded these things. Yes, although SYRIZA became the first force at that time, it became anemic by a majority and was forced to resort to a power of the extreme right, the Independent Greeks, who later adopted them. Of course, in the direction of not being voted on by the President of the Republic, there was also a golden donor. What's his name? Light Bubbles. A fatal historical person who was politically deceived next. You deceived him yourself, when from the head of a party and a well-known and renowned Left official, you have evolved him into a Deputy Minister of Panos Kammenos, a politician who has chosen the space from the country, opted for the left. But that's a story. These belong to the past. A past that we can assure you that we have not forgotten, but that we are going past. Now, with a sense of responsibility, we are disconnecting the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. The New Democracy has never worked - as some people want to say - the presidential election. Whoever says that is unbelievable. They don't know history. And, if necessary, they should not say all this easily and throw their words to the Greek Parliament. Others have been such behaviors. On the contrary, twice the political opponents of the New Democracy used the presidency's institution to throw down its governments. So we look at the country, not the space. We look at stability, we look at ensuring smoothness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Gerapitris has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, it is, I think, one of the most important moments for anyone who is and is calling before this House at the time of the constitutional review. It is, I think, one of the most important moments, particularly for the person who has cured the subject for many years from another step and another, to participate in the process of producing a new constitution, which will be the deposit of this House in the next generation. With respect to this I will try to set the framework for the issues raised on today's Revision Day. I hope to have the opportunity to raise the more general issues of the review process and of substance in my further intervention. I should like to begin by expressing my disappointment at the fact that today there has been an attempt to raise an issue of unconstitutionality, which was left out in procedural terms and on the grounds of content in the direction proposed by the House in this Review House. At this level my presence was linked to the ministerial seats, although a Member of Parliament was also involved. And you know that, in the context of the autonomy of the House, only Members are involved in this top parliamentary procedure and, of course, the ministers who bear the parliamentary status. In this context, the objection of non-constitutionalism of Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, which refers, of course, to a block of provisions which also includes the objection of constitutionality, and which, of course, includes - and the position of the ministers in the cabinets and their participation in this capacity. Therefore, both will be more or less applicable - and the opposition to anti-constitutionalism also exists in the Minister's position in the cabinets - or neither. But there cannot be a selective attitude based on what suits us in any case. But that will allow me to say with all due respect, which the Constitution does not allow in any way, is that of ministers who do not have the status of a parliament. Obviously, my fellowman Mr. Katrugalos agrees, and we all agree, and we have all written it. However, because I accepted the reproach this morning - and accepted it with stoicity - I sought the interactive year for what happened in the proposed parliament. And what happened in the proposing parliament is that the ministers of SYRIZA, including Mr. Papagelopoulos, who did not bring the status of parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u311	That doesn't matter, Minister. He goes wherever he wants! And the board of directors of companies went.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u312	Please, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u313	Minister, he was involved. Did he talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Dritsa, the reproach for me was that I was there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u315	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u316	Because I spoke was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u317	Minister, if we open a dialogue, we will not be able to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u318	There was no involvement. He's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Dragon, you'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u320	I accept, therefore, in the context of the parliamentary order and your graciousness, that your reproach has been attributed to the fact that I have spoken and not that I have sat there. The Minister of Justice - do you remember Mr. Kalogeru? - He stood there and spoke to the Proposing House four times! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why I would ask you very much when there are personal reproach which is intended solely to put anyone in this House who is to be treated with a great deal of thought. And, of course, I think it was irresponsible to judge that my morning speech should come out of the Minutes, as I have not had the right to do so. You will allow me to say with all due respect that this has an element and a parliamentary ethics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, will you allow me a break?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Catrugale, please. We will continue the process and then you will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u323	Now get in the Minutes, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u324	So, let's get into the point of the matter. The first issue is the commitment of the rapporteur to the Review House. So what is true is the interpretative ambiguity of whether the House proposed, that is, the House which proposes the provisions, is binding on the content or in the direction of the Revision House. It was also raised at the level of the opposition to anti-constitutionality filed this morning. And I will just say one word, because I really feel that suddenly we are in a different, parallel constitutional world. Because this issue has never been raised in the last thirty years. It was only recently raised by a minimum scientific minority, while all the great teachers of Constitutional Law insisted that there is an issue of very distinct competence here between the proposer and the decision maker. The Proposing House notes the need. How does she find out? Setting up the articles, paragraphs and verses to be reviewed and the ruling House, which is the only Review House, is the one covering the contents. And I would ask you, for technical reasons, to refer only to this Review House. The previous one was not a Review House. It was part of the complex review body, but not a Review House. It is a Review House that we all have the honor of serving today. Why is that? It has been reported that there is a paradox. But can the Proposing House choose alpha and the Revision House to choose the other than alpha? And obviously that's true. And it's true why? Because they're holding elections! We need to understand what representative democracy means to mediate the electorate. Because what was the thought, the finalology of the constitutional, revised technical, legislator of 1975? That precisely the opposite views on how there will be a revision will be taken into account by the electorate in the elections that take place, in order to finally determine which of the revision options is the one which will prevail, so that the Revision House can have the discretion to understand these provisions as it should be. So there's no doubt about it. There is a huge historical journey from the 19th century to Greece in constitutional science, which considers that there is no commitment. But let me say one more thing. Suppose there is also a commitment in the direction. I imagine there is no therapists of Constitutional Law, nor is there anywhere in this Chamber, who believes that the commitment is being made to the point that we are absolutely obliged to commit ourselves to the proposed parliament. No one says that. Some people say in the direction. If it is in the direction, then again the revision of how the President of the Republic is elected is within the constitutional framework. Why? Because the direction proposed by the House was one and only in relation to Rule 32 and was it what? The disconnection of the method of electing the President of the Republic from appealing to the people's verdict, namely that the normal electoral cycle should not be interrupted, that is to say political normality. And so that we do not forget the historical data of this place, because I hear that, you know, "the attitude of the present parliamentary majority has changed, but you have been saying years ago, but you are saying now," I answer. In the interactive year, however, you will allow me to say that there have been issues which have radically altered the intake of the constitutional phenomenon itself. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman considered that "e, it was not something terrible that, as he conspired, "we made a choice to go to elections. Our choice has been vindicated by the people. The people have justed us." So let the parliamentary representative, who is a law-approved representative, remember: that the people do not approve manipulations, circumventions, violations of the Constitution. So in this case there is a clear circumvention, i.e. 'I dismantle the purpose of the Constitution, which wants consensus'. You insisted very much on consensus. Where was the consensus in 2014? The fact that it was agreed that there was a political manipulation, that the Constitution was exploited as part of the political game to have recourse to the polls is not justified by the people. No constitutional violation can be justified by the people. He's still a constitutional violation. And this type of manipulation of the Constitution cannot continue. And what are we doing in the proposal for the President of the Republic? It is precisely the existing rule of the 1975 Constitution, as amended in 1986, that is precisely the provision that we are bringing. What we are doing is actually to get out of the existing arrangement that the elections are mediating. We have five elections, with qualified majority voting, which result in simple majority voting. She's the same. And there was such a big fuss that it also caused an objection of unconstitutionality. Why? Because in the final vote the President of the Republic is even chosen by a majority. But that's what's happening today. Today the President of the Republic in the fifth election is elected by a qualified majority. Let's read the Constitution to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u325	After elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u326	Oh, now it's important they're holding elections, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u327	Now he doesn't have for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u328	Now it is important that elections are held, but in the Review that elections are held out is not important and that is why this House is committed. We therefore decide whether it is important to hold elections or not. There is no commitment, therefore, and it is the right way of electing the President of the Republic. Let's see a little and a little what's in comparison. Let's take a look at Italy. In Italy, the President of the Republic has far greater powers. How does he get elected? With a simple majority. In Germany, in the Federal Treaty, how is it elected? With a simple majority. Let us see other countries, such as Latvia, Estonia. Let's see what's wrong. Just a simple majority. The presiding democracy has this typology. The President of the Republic shall be the Head of State without political authority and shall be elected by a minor majority. That's the rule. I therefore ask that we be extremely careful about symbols and responsibilities. And say one last thing. Is direct election by the people an appropriate system in a presiding democracy? The answer, in my view, which has been formulated for years, is that it is not the right system and is not for many reasons. The first reason is that it makes the supreme essential part of the political party game, because of course no one will come to the immediate election without having a specific programme. What will be judged in the elections in the context of the powers of the President of the Republic? How will each person come down and be evaluated? Will it be assessed on the basis that he is presentable, or on the basis of the past, or how highly structured his personality is? No, on the basis of a programme, it will be evaluated. But this cannot be in a presiding democracy. And think about this: When the government emerges through the parliament with a majority that can be three million, such as the present one, a president elected by five million will be able to fit in with the Protestant of the presiding democracy or seek a larger extent in his responsibilities? And that's where there won't be a tension from this quake? The answer is simple: The use of the ballots for the President of the Republic in a presiding system is not the right option. Let me just say two words about the other provisions. Before I close, I should like to say something about the President of the Republic which I heard with reproach and fear yesterday from the Chief of Staff. What the Parliamentary spokesman for the Civilian Representation has insinuated, namely that the House is somehow being sent to decide on a consensual person for the President of the Republic, I think he said so much more correctly when it comes to reconstructing his own intellectual will yesterday when he said that the purpose of the order is to blackmail the consensus. That was his location for Article 32. If, therefore, your whole proposal is based on the institutional blackmail of the President of the Republic's consent, I would ask that we stick and be simply by a simple majority and be on the other side. To close with the two provisions. The first provision is for the people's legislative initiative. The popular legislative initiative does indeed have a wide range of use in many European Union countries and in the European Union itself it is recognised and it is a proposal that comes from Opposition. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group is, in the first instance, positive in adopting this proposal within the framework of the consultative spirit, which we have shown, I would like to believe, throughout this procedure in plenary and in committees. Of course, our proposal will include both conditions and restrictions for the exercise of this popular legislative initiative. I do not think in any way that certain issues by definition cannot be incorporated into the popular legislative initiative. You cannot raise the issue of a people's legislative initiative on issues which, for example, go back to national defence or foreign policy. There is no such type of popular legislative initiative. And of course there should also be some form of restriction on the number that can be submitted. First of all, however, we will submit our proposal in the very context of this legislative attitude. And to say a word about the committees of inquiry, that is, Article 68 of the Constitution. It is a proposal from the New Democracy, which was put to the nomination parliament. What's he saying? Substantial committees of inquiry will now also be able to be set up by a parliamentary minority. Not only is it, as was the case today, a major element of parliamentarianism, but it will be a genuine instrument of parliamentary control. I would like to say this: Article 68 of the Constitution for the Committees of Inquiry is the one which, in the historical path of the Constitution, has suffered the greatest degeneration. When Rule 68 was passed in the 1975 Constitutional Assembly, it was precisely the intention of giving the parliamentary minority the right to set up a committee of inquiry. Why? Because the Committee of Inquiry has a specific end to it. Who's that? The House, we, must review the government in time. That is the purpose of the Committee of Inquiry. Unfortunately, the degenerative majority that has been demonstrated during the post-population process has led to the following paralysis: Instead of that, i.e. a timely parliamentary control of the House in the government, it has led to a specific post-modernised control of this majority in the previous majority. This is a very serious constitutional slip, which is now being restored. And I would like to say to this that I am very proud to introduce this provision, because, in my opinion, which I had recorded very in time scientifically together with this proposal, I think that the level of parliamentaryism of each constitutional order is ultimately judged by the rights which parliamentary minorities have to control the majority. I mean that I am twice proud of the fact that we are bringing this proposal exactly while we are in the majority, recognizing that it is so important to give some of this material to Minority, although we know that it will ultimately turn against us in this context. For this reason, I feel that it is indeed a great moment to incorporate the committees of inquiry as a right of minority, which restores constitutional order. In conclusion, I would like to thank those who participated in the Constitutional Review Committee, the President, the Secretary-General, the Parliamentary Representatives here and all the Members for their high-level dialogue. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u330	You are not a parliamentary representative. If I give you the floor, Mr. Catrugale, then Mr. Loverdes will be asked for it. There are fifteen...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u331	I will not ask him, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u333	There's no dentistry, just a three-minute intervention. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u334	Whatever you want, Mr President. Yesterday, in a similar case, we enabled the rapporteurs-general to be placed, no matter what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u335	You agreed between you two that you'd talk at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u336	No, Mr. Colleague, it's not worth talking about it. You remember that Mr. Loverdos had spoken of an embolism. I think that for the directness of the procedure it is better to do so now. I shall start with the elsson, which deals with the issues between us, although we obviously never doubt mutual appreciation. I asked the Minutes to see exactly what I said. I said, therefore, that it is institutional hypocrisy on the part of the government's party to be absent from the bench when issues such as the criminal liability of a minister of the previous government are discussed, and now to be present in the review process, which is clear that there is no participation in government status. So what I gave you was the hypocritical attitude in two moments that you had no reason to be absent from the benches, at the time of investigating criminal responsibilities, while you had a say, if you wanted to be completely formal here. The differences are very delicate, but they are here - and you will also admit it - that it is paradoxical not to hear the majority's final position on drafting issues by the rapporteur-general and to hear them from you. That's paradoxical.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u337	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u338	You agree, but I have heard the final statement now. I note it as a paradox. I want to go to the essentials, because these, anyway, aren't particularly...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u339	It's not your character or your level to make such comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u340	Why? Wait a minute, I think I declarably put myself in a position and I do not question anyone else's spirit, while I was attacked, which obviously by the Members who came, I thought it was not worth answering. Let's move on to the point. Why is the argument of the elections not decisive? Constitutional science considers it to be an element of democracy the intervention of the electorate to determine the final direction to be taken by the Review. If we accept, as you accept, that in the second Review House - I will say after all because I call it second - it is the majority free to choose whatever content it wants, in this case the election body is not involved. Why is it an object? If he can cancel the direction given by the first House or confirm it. If Article 110 is to be interpreted as giving a 'white' card to the majority in the second Review to form whatever content it wants, then what is the point of the election body's participation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u341	Commandment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u342	The terminology of the first and second Review Houses is being borrowed by Mr Evangelos Venizelos and I think he is right. He argues that the change in the 1975 Constitution, contrary to what was done in previous constitutions, enables the majority of fifty - one and eighty to be altered in the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u343	We shall also speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u344	As to the argument that, where the President of the Republic is elected by a qualified majority, he has powers that may be more important and more important than those of the current President, the argument is easily reversed, because we have cases where the Head of State is directly elected by the people, such as Portugal, Austria, Ireland, Bulgaria, without having more powers than the Greek President and not even his position in the city has created dominance regimes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u345	Both are valid.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u346	On the other hand, we see that the cases of Presidents that are completely like our Parliaments and about the competences and the way they are elected, such as those of Albania or Italy, because of the way in which the real constitution and the conditions of the constitution have formed, play a very important political role and can the Albanian President compete with the Albanian Prime Minister and Italy, especially at critical times, have a strong regulatory role. My final argument is this, although it is, in some ways, an occupational disease, perhaps to refer to the constitutionalists in these technical details: it was right, Mrs Bakoyannis said, that this room is not a field of constitutional theories, but is not a specific political one. There, I think, it is the substance to which our parliamentary representative has come. I do not think you can easily convince anyone in Greece that your intention to be elected President of the Republic with a lower and parliamentary majority of the declared one does not hide your intention to politically control the President. You have shown yourself the same intention in many cases, trying to rebuild a purely party state. In any case, I am referring to what Mr Janakopoulos said, because I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u347	I told you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u348	Mr President, excuse me, one last minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u349	I forgive you, but the MPs are waiting. Besides, you've mentioned Mr. Venizelo so many times that I can give you a minute more. You've invoked him so many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u350	You know that many here referred to Dimitris Chachos and many of us were his students. And the last comment is: What did the President of SYRIZA and Chief of Staff said yesterday? That our proposal for successive votes and the possibility of directly elected ultimum refugium acts as a mechanism for demolishing consensus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u351	Extortion said, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u352	It's like pressure on the political system to get consent. The logic of the Constitutional Legislative legislator of 1975 was similar, which is why he predicted the dismantling of the House, not for working, as has happened from all the parties, and from the New Democracy, but as a mechanism - tool for releasing consensus. That is what I have to say, and we will have the opportunity on academic grounds to discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u353	And we'll start now, unfortunately. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, you'll be waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u354	If my colleague, the general rapporteur for the Staff Regulations, did not raise a much-needed issue in the previous House but also in the one, which is related to the so-called guidelines, I would not take the floor again. This morning, Mr President, I rejected the objection of unconstitutionalism on the basis of some arguments. Now, as the debate continues, which I hope we do not repeat until Friday, we have said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u355	But I did. I didn't leave it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u356	That's right. As the dialogue is expanding, I would like to complete my morning arguments. Where did I rely this morning on the Change Movement to reject this objection? Firstly, on matters of democratic legitimacy. I said, Mr President, that a parliament which comes also proposes a parliament which comes, as a result of popular sovereignty, at its first session, immediately four months after the elections, decides. Democratisation requires that the Revision House be non-aligned. Unbundled as to what? Not all, of course, because it is bound by the provisions, that is, Articles, paragraphs and subparagraphs, by the proposed one. The commitment, however, is being finalised here. In teaching Dimitris Tsatsos, Mr. Katrugale, I pointed out to my students that one is called a propositionist and the other is called Revision. What, though, was the major argument for the young man to understand? That review is called the second. Thus, we have the V'Revision House in 1975, the F'Revision House in 1986, the Z'Revision House in 2001, the H'Revision House in 2008 and today the I'll Revision House, the ninth, i.e. the Revision House. This is the House that is reviewing. My third argument was the so-called anti-constitutional provisions of the Constitution, which our theory, except on one occasion, rejects them. So the lawmaker, the official interpreter and lawmaker, is not called upon to distinguish between constitutional provisions that are consistent with and contrary to the Constitution. And I told you this morning that if the Supreme Special Court and the Council of State were to accept the arguments put forward by the parties, they would not accept the admissibility. They would've been rejected by inadmissible. We have no complete picture of the case-law and no one is right to invoke it. Now, does the substance need this dialogue? In 32.4 is formed by the majority today so as to be contrary to what is said by you and not accepting us guidelines? Oh, no. Comesson, that's the thing. Is there a question of the correctness of the provision? We disagree, we are closer to the increased majority, and we disagree with Mr Gerapetti, who says that the rule in other countries is the relative majority. But we have the good rule of absolute or increased majority, we say, why ruin it? But does this contrast in your direction? No way. So here you're not right. In conclusion, what I thought, when I heard you speak, is this: is it possible, Mr President, that we should like to extend ourselves, when popular sovereignty was expressed contrary to us? How can we do that? Is it possible to say in a parliament, which is even renewed every time by 40% or 50% - political is my argument - that what the House wanted, as formulated by the expression of popular sovereignty in September 2015, will bind the Parliament formed by popular sovereignty in 2019? The extension of ourselves to the future, with an insult of popular sovereignty, cannot exist. So there is a contradiction here, and in the very thoughts of the rapporteur-General of Officerial Representation, and I just wanted to highlight it at political level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u357	Even though you didn't say anything about Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u358	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr President. I sincerely find it difficult to follow Mr Katrugalos' last thought, who made reference to the fact that, through this proposal put forward by the New Democracy for the election at the final stage of the President of the Republic, by an absolute or by a large majority, he sees a methodical dilemma towards the establishment of the party state. I believe that it is neither at your level, Mr President, nor in your education nor in the political behaviour you have shown such excesses, when you know much better than anyone in this Chamber that the President of the Republic does not have regulatory powers after 1986. The responsibilities it has do not give him any opportunity to influence the political game or even any kind of disputes and disputes between the parties. What I would like to say, in order to reach a secure view on this issue, is that one of the ways in which we choose to stand up to our political opponent, is by showing too much objections, which people from outside this Chamber sometimes hear and say that there can be no sense in such references. The second point I wish to raise is the following: I have followed Mr Janakopoulos. I insist that, as soon as there is no such provision, the provision of Rule 30(1) is not included among the revised provisions, and indeed with a proposal, so that the President of the Republic is elected by the House and, in any case, by the people, this issue that we are discussing can only have a different context of discussion, rather than a mandatory debate on the choice of a technical indication of the President through the House alone. There is no scientifically, politically, in any case, and if you want to approach this issue in any case, then there is no scientifically and politically. Third matter. Indeed, I think it has been done lately - and I am not going to speak again, Mr President - a very great retreat of democracy towards institutions that are very important pillars of the functioning of the society. And these institutions in turn are the parties. We have reached a point that we too join in an anti-party culture which is starting to grow on the initiative of a section - not a whole - of the media system. Ladies and gentlemen, we must defend the parties, because the parties are the first degree of representation and through the parties it is also possible for the people to participate, but, above all, the parties are the institution that brings civil society in contact with political society. Many tensions through the parties can find a peaceful way out and thus participate in a division through democratic dialogue. That is why I think that is why this view against the coronary and over-democratic forms of representation of the people is opening up various doors to approach other ideologies, which are foreign to our democracy. I am referring, above all, to this multi-played, media and various forms of 'democracy of the crowd'. So the replacement created through this kind of negative attitude towards our parties leads us to view the people as multitudo, as Spinoza said in his periodic realms, and that is why we can join in concepts that may at some point also in Greece to adopt forms of power that have nothing to do with the people and, above all, have clear distances from all those perceptions we all have about the nation. That is what I wanted to say and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u361	We will continue with Mr. Capato, Mr. Liuta and Mr. Syrigo. He'll be intruded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u363	Mr. Kamin, you have spoken in your protology about fifteen minutes. We'll put three Members first and then you'll take the floor for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u364	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Cappato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to our different approaches recorded in the committee, it is an honour that we are members of a Review House, one of the four of the post-mopulation so far. I congratulate colleagues on all the fact that they have worked in the Commission to reach convergences on revised provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, it had become clear - since the previous parliamentary term of the proposed Parliament and, of course, before the July elections - that for the New Democracy the constitutional review was not as ambitious as it should be. Our view is not aimed at reducing the value of individual provisions that are evident in the end to be revised. Most Members have referred to Article 16. I will not dwell so much on the economic nature of the debate on the need to establish non-state universities. We need to explain to the citizens what the importance of the early update of the articles of the Constitution is. In order to make this easier to understand, Article 16 has indeed acquired a teaching dimension now. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we mean when we say that our country should be turned into an international training centre for higher education and research? Most of the Vice-Population colleagues focus their disagreement exclusively on the possibility of involvement - within the introductory market - in higher education, with which they are ideologically opposed. However, they face the debate in a way of monolithic, which ignores the wider consequences of a revision of Article 16. The New Democracy argues in favour of the need to transform the country into an international educational centre, because this shows a key competitive advantage. It is a development that can be a multiplier for the country. In previous decades, power indicators such as population, economy and military power would be catalytic for the country's international position. Let's be honest. The prospects for Greece on the basis of the classical indicators of international strength would be rather pessimistic in the long term. However, in today's world, the importance of indicators of so-called'soft power' has increased, a term that has been dynamically introduced into international relations over the last thirty years. Mild power is about culture, education, respect for international law, diplomacy, quality of life, as well as many other factors, in general, the influence and attractiveness of a country on the international scene. Based on the theory of soft power, Greece could be a quite important country at global level, in individual sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the timeless basic comparative advantage of Hellenism? But, of course, culture, science and education. That is why the rest of Greece knows mainly about the basis for the worthy system of the Western world by Greek philosophy and thought. When we argue about the need to transform Greece into an international high-level educational centre for students, researchers, academics and scientists from all over the world, we also have this in mind. The leadership of Greece in any area is transformed into a factor of power, let alone when we talk about education, which over time shapes culture, science and economy, ultimately the very concept of progress worldwide and over time. The review of two key articles that we are debating today deserves to highlight the importance of amending them for the stability and quality of our political system. In any case, the central position here today is the revision of the fourth paragraph of Rule 32, which must lead to the disconnection of the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic from possible dissolution of the House. Let us make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the major one. The revision of the article in question is a streamlining interference in the political system. Unfortunately, the way in which the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic has been used was a factor of destabilisation of the political system and it has certainly been depreciating for the institution, which he has actually 'worked'. Extortion of the dissolution of the House has been abusively carried out by a micropolitical vehicle. Officerial Vice-Presidents focus on the institution's dimension as a balancing element for the city, and that is why they argue in favour of its direct emergence by the people. However, political practice and recent historical experience show the opposite. If we look for the substance of the institution of the President of the Republic today, I think we all agree that it consists of two basic functions. It is a symbol of unity of the nation and a factor in strengthening the normality of political life. A direct election process, which always receives conflicting features, would limit the two most essential to the civilisation of the institution. Furthermore, the election of a president with fewer parliamentary majority voting as a last resort is not the solution to the revision of Article 32. The proposed provision is a method of dealing with a deadlock in the least painful for political stability. It shall be left to the maturity of the political system to achieve convergences for the election of the President of the Republic. Otherwise, we are self-determination and discrediting our role as parliamentarians, when we raise the process of electing the President of the Republic in a field of party controversy, in a process whose success depends on the wording of a text, ignoring an essential condition of the healthy functioning of parliamentarianism, which is the genuine effort to achieve convergence. This latter is not something that can be imposed by the letter of the Constitution. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to reflect the institution of the Presidency of the Republic. Every democracy needs institutional counterweight. Despite its limitations, the Constitution does not prohibit the functioning of the institution of the Presidency as a counterweight - in a certain context, obviously - and if historically necessary in exceptional cases. This is not only a legal interpretation of the Constitution, but also an institutional conquest within the framework of a political tradition. In other words, it is a acquis which will be served by the spirit of the Constitution. A second point we are debating today concerns the revision of paragraph 2 of Article 68, with which the opposition may, on its own initiative, require a committee of inquiry. This is a provision that will enrich our culture qualitatively and constitutes an important concession of the parliamentary majority. It links the control of minority control to the parliamentary mechanism of the Committee of Inquiry, which, to date, is the prerogative of the majority. In addition, the committees of inquiry on the initiative of the Opposition show the pluralist nature of our parliamentary democracy, especially at a time when the debate on free republics in Europe is intense. Therefore, this provision can contribute to the qualitative upgrading of the operation of the House as an additional institutional counterweight to the effective control of the government by the opposition, provided that this parliamentary tool is used by the opposition itself with institutional responsibility. Before closing my speech and on the occasion of tomorrow's debate, I would like to express this hope that this constitutional review will be the beginning of a process that will allow Greek citizens living or abroad to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed right without hindrance. As a member of the Kefalonia and Ithaca Prefecture, I have been representing a place where my compatriots have for centuries been unholying towards every part of the earth and for various periods of time and I know well what it is important that they can decide where they so much love and where they dream of returning. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece was once in the world for the progressive nature of its constitution. A few decades after the establishment of the Greek state we had a constitution that was considered a model and a pioneer. In this spirit we must also address today the updating of the country's statute. The historical dimension of a Review House and the recording of the placement of each and every one of these Steps are part of the institutional tradition and memory of the civil society, an institutional memory that will be the guide to the next Review of the Constitution. We must therefore accept, by accepting the restrictions imposed by the historic juncture, treat the Constitution as a statute law which must be updated in good time in a world that is changing more and more quickly, of course, to recognise our institutional responsibility as members of this House with the work of some of the proposed Parliament on the revised provisions, but also to assume our historical responsibility as co-formulators of the institutional memory of our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u367	Mr. Lutas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u368	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the week we are in is a week of very high political importance. It is the week in which the Plenary Assembly of the Greek Parliament is placed against the major political issue of the Revision of the Constitution. Parliament is called upon to vote on our country's new constitutional charter. As we all know the majority of the previous parliament and the SYRIZA government have been deprived of a great constitutional review. During the proposed parliament, the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as leader at that time of the opposition officer, had proposed to vote as a reviewer for all the basic articles that at the time the government and the opposition were introduced. Our aim was for the Greek people, with their vote in the elections, to indicate at the same time their position towards the orientation of the revision, that is to say to state the rethinking of which party would ultimately like. Our main objective was a modern review, a review linked to the new era, which, as we all know, is constantly changing, is constantly giving rise to new challenges and new data, on the basis of which Greek society is called upon to work, to biopolitics and, in fact, to live. The aim of the New Democracy was and remains the fundamental development of the Constitution. We should, however, understand that even if SYRIZA predetermined a limited review, our Government and the Prime Minister are today saying that they are fighting for the development and prosperity of our society, even in these narrow contexts. With this review, which is carried out by this House, we are able to shield political stability. Political stability is the basic prerequisite for the economic development and prosperity of our society. This objective is based decisively on the change in the way the President of the Republic is elected. Ladies and gentlemen, for many years now the election time of the President of the Republic has been creating instability in the political and economic world. Political instability was created because of the way the President was elected, which created political discontinuance. We all know that in many cases this election was the same as in early elections. We all know that it was the result of the institution working for the benefit of early polling, an old-party strategy that essentially characterised only the SYRIZA era. This situation, however, had two adverse effects over time: firstly, the tooling of the institution of the country's supreme state-run player consciously degraded the quality of our democracy and, secondly, the regular closure of the government's project meant uninterrupted and unfavourable financial consequences that affected the entire spectrum of our society. In particular, the crisis has shown that Greece suffered from a large number of unfinished reforms. This incomplete reform, i.e. the lack of modernisation of our economy, has largely been the result of political instability and discontinuity. Furthermore, the feeling or prediction that a government will cease its work, due to the lack of a majority needed to elect the President of the Republic, has discouraged investment, thus slowing down any developmental orbit that country had until then. Unlike this, we see today how much the development orbit is being strengthened, when there is a strong, large majority and developmental government, such as the current New Democracy Government. Political stability is a major issue. After many decades in which the consequences of the instability took place as a result of the way the President of the Republic was elected, today comes a great end, which will lead to the normality of the government's term of office, the recovery of institutional confidence and in which he demonstrates that the Government of New Democracy has come to give solutions and to bridge Greece with the reality of progress and development. This point must also be stressed: The reasoning of our Government regarding the election of the President of the Republic is not the objective of consensus. In particular, the Prime Minister is loyal to the need for converging and consensus. With the shocks and consents, in particular around issues of the highest national importance, the necessary unity of the whole of our society is created. Unity is a catalyst for progress and prosperity to achieve what we deserve as a country and as a nation. Ladies and gentlemen, after more than ten years of deep crisis and insecurity the Greek society enters a new era, which was inaugurated by the election of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in a new era which is founded on love for homeland, faith for man, in the belief that growth can and must finally come to this place. A decisive step at the beginning of this new era is the new constitutional Charter, that is, the fundamental changes in which the majority of the House introduces into the Constitution of the country and which our Government plans, with the aim of correcting the distortions and moving our country on a modern path that we have the same practices as all the developed states of the Western world as they have for their development and prosperity. So at the beginning of this new era we must understand the great importance of certain things. Political stability, institutional confidence, social justice, the ability of a government to design and implement fully the laws, the liberation of all healthy market forces, work and research contribute to a dynamic force of factors, which interact and complement one another in a framework of factors, which can substitute for any distorted old institutional system, which discouraged and prevented real growth. Our aim is precisely this: to create a new institutional framework, which is capable of illustrating and producing our national competitive advantage, which can put us with great demands on the international economic and geostrategic chess board. Therefore, the immunisation of political stability is our main and national bet, a national bet which is now being met by the intersection introduced into the Constitution in terms of the election of the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President, for being in time. Mr. Syrigos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u370	Mr President, Minister, we have had this debate today on the issue of unconstitutionalism, which was closed with the morning vote. I would like to go back to 2016 and see how all this debate on the Revision of the Constitution started. The then government of SYRIZA - ANEL claimed that it was preparing a radical review, that a long-term social consultation, under the auspices of a committee that would monitor it, that parliamentaryism would be strengthened, that there would be a change in the depth of democracy and popular participation, that of the protection of social rights, and that - I say as the then Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras said - "the abolition of privileged institutions for the political elites". That was the objective of the revision. It was even allowed then to be understood that the proposal would be put forward as the subject of a referendum, which, of course, is not provided for in Article 44(2) of the Constitution which states the categories of referendum that can be held, nor in Article 110 on the revision of the Constitution. Three years later we have forgotten all this and, of course, we have forgotten the abolition of privileged institutions in favour of political elites and we are discussing it on the basis of Article 110 of the Constitution, as laid down in the Constitution and as had to be done in the first place. It is therefore the House, the previous one proposed by the Revision, with the increased majority required by Rule 110. But the opposition still has a populist form of legitimism. Who's that? The ability of the state to pay high wages and pensions. The viability of the insurance system. The creation of new jobs. The level of prosperity of all Greeks. According to the perception of opposition, these are achieved by changes in the constitution. They are not linked to the state of the economy. You can, by putting a provision somewhere in the Constitution, say you're gonna fuck all this. This is the result of the same conception, which said in the past: 'Don't worry, we'll erase all the memorials, we'll smash them with a law, an article'. The fact that the party that plucked the ears of the Greeks by saying such nonsense, instead of tearing the memorials, ended up signing a third memorandum, unfortunately. We are still listening to similar legalist populism. "We will pass on provisions which, regardless of the state of the economy, will ensure the well-being of the Greeks." Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to this particular provision on the election of the President of the Republic, if I can comment a little on what the Minister of State said, Mr Gerapepitris, who, from the point of view of adopting the proposal of the Opposition on popular participation in the adoption of bills, has excluded foreign policy and defence issues. In view of the fact that Article 44(2), which excludes draft legislation on budgetary matters, states that, alongside foreign and defence policy, we must also exclude budgetary matters. I now come to the issue of the election of the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an institutional issue which, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the 1975 Constitution, became the subject of a micro-political, micro-participatory conflict. This is a very important change which took place in 1985. The radical change in the institution. In fact, by changing the institution, these "checks and balances" that Americans say, the institutional counterweights of the system, are being lost. So we have here a new system which since 1985 has still had a procedure for the President of the Republic, which is disproportionate to the institution, as amended in 1985. So basically, the system itself enabled us to play micro-groups, as we saw in 2014, when we were led to elections due to the inability of the House to elect Mr. Dimas. I come to a proposal on the specific provision that has been tabled and is to be voted on. Mr Javarras said earlier, and it is true that reality often goes beyond the imagination we can have and it is difficult to predict all the cases. I remember the case of the 1982 repetitive elections when Dimitris Tsovolas had been convicted by the court, he had ceased to hold office. Subsequently all the candidates who were implicated resigned. Who was expecting this? And we led to elections in which the rest of the parties, except two, if I'm not mistaken, PASOK and the Leventis party, participated in the elections. These are things you can't catch, arrest them in advance. In this sense, therefore, I would suggest in the article which is to be reviewed that we move forward with the following change. We say that if the increased majority in the third vote is not achieved, then the vote will be repeated after five days between the two people who were majority and elected by the majority. I would suggest that the following change should be made here: if this majority is not achieved, the vote is repeated once again after five days, between the two who voted for the majority. It's over. In any event, the President of the Republic shall be deemed to have been elected by the majority. In this way, we can ensure that we have no problem with such problems, namely that one of the two candidates resigns and say that 'one is only the candidate, there is an empty law'. I'd suggest we think about it. I put the proposal in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Syrigos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I hope that with the new provision we will not have the chance to run again for micro-party reasons and to play with such a serious institution as the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr. Syragos for keeping time. Mr Chrysimalis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, I am pleased that, as a new Member, I have the luck of participating in this very important parliamentary and political process, a process that is taking place for the third time in the last forty-five years of post-population and is coming today to update, develop and restore any shortcomings or changes that are deemed necessary in our Constitution. Because the functioning of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, is not static. She's dynamic and alive. It is influenced by the developments in our society and affects its content in the life of all of us. That is why my pleasure is coming to significantly mitigate the dismantling of the re-examined provisions under the responsibility of the previous parliamentary majority, an anomaly which has put out of review provisions which the society and the content of which have already become obsolete. For example, I am sorry as a young man and as a young scientist who has not been able to revise Article 16 so that we can finally have private universities in Greece and in Greece, or Article 24, to solve a number of issues which are afflicting us in the forestry sector at last. However, there are provisions, such as the present ones, which, as the President of the Parliament has said, are a step forward. I begin with the most important one, which is the unblocking of the election of the President of the Republic from the election call - Article 32 - an absolutely imperative blockade, as the last decade has shown that the election of the President of the Republic was used to provoke internal political developments, such as in 2009 when Mr Papandreou blackmailed the then Karamanlis government that he would not vote for the President of the Republic, led the country to elections and put us in the memorandum. Election, however, he said money was there. And, above all, in 2014, when SYRIZA caused the fall of the government of Samaras while taking us out of the Memorandum. Again, SYRIZA said half the truth that he would abolish the memorials of ENPIA and everything else. Finally, this development cost the country tens of billions of euros, an inappropriate memorandum, a mortgage on public property and our national wealth for ninety years and, of course, the Ambassadors' Agreement. The "no" on Stavros Dimas is the only "no" in the history of Greece, for which some must hide and be ashamed. He'll be chasing you, gentlemen of SYRIZA. It'll be your nightmare. I am amazed to hear that Members of SYRIZA accuse the New Democracy of working for the election of the President of the Republic and of plundering a party state. The political courage here has no limits! Are you talking about tooling? You who in 2014 directly threatened MPs and slandered them by implying their money. You who, along with the Annells, talked about buttons? You, who set up the Kammenos - Haikalis - Laki Lazopoulou show for a alleged attempt to fund MPs? Mercy! No one forgets the provocations and the preparations you set up. But as it seems today, the forming was and is in your blood. Then for the election of Stavros Dimas, a project for "NOVARTIS". Target's always the same. Antonis Samaras and government officials 2012-2014 who kept their homeland standing in Europe. Apparently, coincidence. But a repetitive coincidence ceases to be a coincidence. Contrary to the left language, it is called "target propaganda", while in scientific dialect it may fall to the diagnosis of "persistence". Does anyone forget who played games with the institution of the President of the Republic? Does anyone forget Mr Fotis Kouvelis, who at first was SYRIZA, then denounced him and left, then made his own party, entered the government of Samaras, but then left, then he agreed to become President of the Republic, then disagreed with what he agreed, lost in the 2015 elections, lost the party he had founded and then returned to SYRIZA to become the Deputy Minister of Kammenos? Finally, Mr. Kouvelis destroyed a country to become an ordinance of Panos Kammenos, who also destroyed a country to become an ordinance of Alexis Tsipras, who destroyed a country to become Mrs. Merkel's ordinances. And all this because? On the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic. Your officials then said that "and God himself suggests that Samaras, we will go to elections". So you, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, have worked on the election of the President of the Republic, and that is now finally ending. The country cannot stand any more such adventures. With regard to the amendment of Rule 68, the New Democracy's proposal gives Parliament's minority the right to request a committee of inquiry by reviewing the existing vague provision, which has never allowed any proposal for a committee of inquiry to be carried out in Parliament. It is a proposal that increases democracy in Parliament, especially after the anti-democratic parliamentary procedures that we have lived for four and a half years with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. It is known that you in SYRIZA have tried to smuggle your political opponents, that you have set up "Chancellor's trials", bypassing every constitutional and legislative provision, how you enjoy the ten separate ballots you have set up, how you laughed and ironed out former Prime Ministers, how you decided and ordered the setting-up of committees of inquiry, starting and ending the work done by 2015. You did not allow a committee to investigate - despite the fact that you controlled the majority - your works and your days. You have violated the presumption of innocence, the rights of the Minority, you have brought people in and out of the House, you have tried to keep your political opponents hostage, using the method of so-called examinations, which have never considered anything but what you wanted as a government. For all of this, not even an apology you've been abducted. This majority tyranny, as Alexis de Tokville very eloquently described in his work: "Democracy in America" we are correcting it today in the spirit of the Baimar Constitution. We improve the government's accountability under parliamentary control and limit the majority monopoly in control. In conclusion, I shall refer to SYRIZA's proposal on Article 28 on the referendum on national issues. Here's to laugh, really! You are talking about referendums, when you voted on the poor Prespecies Agreement, by dismantling the parties, by making a multitude of MPs, by insulting the Greek people who participated massively in rallying, using violence and chemicals, and by making superstitious arrests of citizens. Then there was no reason for a referendum? For you, obviously not. In each poll, the 'no' of the Prespecies exceeded 70% -80%. Then for you the Greek people were immature. And you have the political courage to propose a referendum on national issues. Who? You who have relaxed every sense of referendum, like with that unexplained referendum in 2015, when you played the country in the dice and we almost got a stroke when you saw the result. Your co-operator at the time, Mr. Varoufakis. Here it is - unfortunately, for you - you can ask him again. This is our difference, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. That's who you are, that's not who we are. Another Alexis Tsipras, another Kyriakos Mitsotakis! We are the ones who give the Greek people a balanced constitution, with substantial changes in critical issues, which have so far threatened the stability of our liberal democracy. We did not try, as you did, nor did we aim for a class-based review consisting of ideological strangles, which have nothing to offer to civilisation and society. That is why the latter welcomes us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u373	Mr Russopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the reform process of the Constitution is done well, I would suggest that we give serious consideration to the process of revising the Rules of Procedure of this House, so that the Member may be given greater opportunity and not wonder why the Member is not involved. Because, at best, he will be able to attend only as a decorative hologram in this Chamber. I have said many times to the committee that we do not legislate - and much more to the highest process of changing the constitution - in conditions of warmth. This means that we should think about recent or older history to know what we are deciding today how much imprint they actually have or may have. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] No one forgets that in 2009 and 2014 two governments in the middle of their term - had only done two years - fell because then the Chiefs of Officerial Opposition wanted to take the country to elections. As the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has said before, the result has been justified, but the essence is that the President was used as a tool for something other than that provided for in the Constitution. Many scenarios have been heard in the Chamber for the election of the President of the Republic. I'll deal with one, two of them. It was heard by a good colleague from the Change Movement that the proposal for a minimum of eighty votes. This insistence on the minimum of eighty-eight votes let us think that it will lead to repeated elections in this Chamber. Let us think of one, two, three, four, five, six months, and if, in the meantime, the President - whose term of office will be extended and will remain in his place - he will be able to sign presidential decrees or anything else concerning the proper functioning of the constitution, or his presence will be completely unconstitutional, as well as the statutes he signs. SYRIZA now, for his part, says a hundred eighty votes - and remains in it - and six months of procedure, six months ago. So, six months of upset in the country. But let's go to the best case we don't have any upset six months in the country. Let us see that the President may not formally acquire responsibility like the one he had before the change in the constitution in 1985, but in fact he will have it, because he will also be elected by people, as will the Prime Minister and the Government. So why should the role of the merciful people of the Republic be reduced by that of the merciful Prime Minister or the merciful government? And let us go into some details of this election procedure to imagine the image. Will we forbid the candidate or candidates for the position of the President of the Republic to go and ask for a vote directly from the people, speaking in election balconies? Are we going to ban him from participating with his candidate on TV debates or on other broadcasts? Are we going to rule out any business interests of the media, deport him with stories about either his political course - whether he is political - or his personal life? And when all this happens, how much will we have protected the institution for which colleagues are cut off by SYRIZA today if it is elected with a hundred and fifty one rather than a hundred eighty? A politician in the 1950s said that the election season looks like a dance of demons. This dance of demons will no longer be enough to elect a government, it will also be extended to the election of the President of the Republic. Because, you know, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, very well within you, that if we allow such a situation, the slashing candidate president, the elected President-in-Office will be weaker than the poorest parliamentary majority, which we are proposing today as a last resort, and which is also provided for in the 1975 Constitution, as was the occasion of Minister Gerapitris, Mr Eurypidis Stylianides and many other colleagues to state earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, the day is coming to an end, together with the sitting of the House which is going through history today. What's left of this day? You are well aware that I am not distinguished either for excesses in my public speech or for open-minded attacks on political opponents, especially the second one, not only in character, but also because I have also accepted them in the past. But let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You started the day with an application for an anti-constitutional article in a direction that you wished and did not come up with. You were amazed when the New Democracy in the Proposing House had agreed with your own proposal on which you are now abandoning us. Proof of this is the discomfort recorded at the time in your officials' statements and in the media, with more proof that while this morning the President of the House, Mr. Tasoulos, read opinions, both Chatsos and Manesis, which states that the Revision House can form the text of the article proposed by the House - because if it were, otherwise, the nomination would have been stronger than the Review and perhaps the Review - some of you would not have had to interpret Tsatsos and Manesi after their death, saying: "Yes, but hadn't made decisions of the Supreme Court." I had known Manesi a little, but with Chacho, I had a very good personal and friendly relationship in 2007 and in 2008, when we discussed the Review, not a few times, either in my office or in his home, we discussed this particular subject. It has never changed from this theory, one of the greatest intellectuals for the Constitution in our country. I will not interpret him, of course, after death. So you were surprised that the New Democracy faithful to the spirit of consensus agreed with you on the change of the presidential election article. You have come to speak today of a trick when you do not give up on us for so many weeks, because in other articles we do not agree on your proposals. When we consent, you blame us. When we don't consent, you blame us. You will allow me to say that you have probably been surprised because you have not been well informed. Evidence of this is a text that I shall read. It's exactly the same. I have listened with gratitude to all the speakers and, of course, to your special rapporteur. Everything he said a month ago in committee, he said it today. It's in the Minutes. I got today's Minutes, too. Among other things, for the direct election of the President, Mrs Jackson says: "I believe that this possibility...", that is, the direct election "... is inconsistent with the specific responsibilities of the President..." etc. "as with the aim of electing persons with a mild unified profile that could contribute to the dismantling of extreme political conflicts, in specific political or institutional circumstances, as candidates who will be in the election will be at least two and will form political situations, i.e. conflict". In other words, you know that we're going to go to what I described previously, to conflict conditions, and you're insisting on that. But there is something else that has not been adequately answered by you. In your proposal, of the SYRIZA, in the proposing parliament for Rule 30, they did not vote for your own Members. Your proposal raised a hundred and forty-eight votes and Rule 30 says the President is elected by the House. In fact, two of these Members are also your Members today. So when you had taken a hundred and forty-eight votes on this proposal, how is forty-eight larger than the hundred-five-one we say? I don't understand what math these are. I'm closing up with a reference to the former President of the House, Mr. Voutsi. Mr Voutissis this morning - I have watched him carefully, and I hope you have followed him carefully - he said not once, but twice and I do not know whether he has said so to you, but this is about your internalities: 'Be careful, because what is being done today, the request for unconstitutionality, which has never been done before, will be 'legality'. And he put the word in quotes, meaning case law about the future. In other words, Mr. Voutsis this morning told you that the House, with your proposal, decides something very important and I do not care if you have put your selfgovernment - and I congratulate you on that - but I am interested in the fact that on your own initiative today, you have managed and solved a subject that some constitutionalists are discussing and prescribing in recent months, and you have solved it in a parliament that is not random, is a Review House. So today's Review House decided, on your own initiative, that the strength of the proposal is less than the power of the Review and decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u375	Thank you. Mr Nikolaos Manolakos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the people tell us 'the purpose justifies the means'. This phrase has for many years been the complicity of the political decisions of certain party staff in our country, unfortunately, even in matters of very serious and paramount importance, to which the greatest possible seriousness and responsibility should be demonstrated, such as the election of the guardian of our country, the President of the Republic. And yet so close and so distant at the same time 2009, PASOK, on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic, provoked national elections, which also won with obscene promises and slogans that have also written history, such as "the money is there". The Constitution, however, was not built to blackmail nor to be a brake on political stability, because I believe that the institution of the President of the Republic symbolises broader political and social acceptance. The story itself, with an even more disastrous ending, was repeated in 2015. On 25 January then, the country was led to an early elections and to an incredible adventure, the consequences of which and the account, I think we will pay him for many years, as a result of the inability of the parliament to elect a President of the Republic in three successive elections. And since then it has been five years with capital control, five years without any serious investment for the country, five years of tax purification and suffocating the productive middle class. And all this because some had delusionality, as they did, of course retrospectively. The people, however, say: 'The two have sinned not a wise man'. But we in the decades of the crisis have made the same mistake twice and now the people who repeated the mistake come to abduct us because we are simply coming to put an end to a future repetition of the same catastrophic error, we come to prevent three misdemeanours from sinning, because we, ladies and gentlemen, have no illusions. The interest of Officer Opposition and so-called democratic sensitivities seems to me to be pre-formative and hypocritical. If they had such sensitivities, they would not have organised the self-declared referendum in 2015, a referendum that suffered from the beginning, after having taken place for a budgetary reason and along the way was baptized nationally. And then again, because of the illusions, he was canceled by his results. Isn't that right? But thanks to the responsibility of our prolongation, an opposition officer at that time, the country did not fall on the rocks. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is a responsible opposition. It is not the responsibility of the opposition to blackmail elections on the pretext of electing the President of the Republic, simply to take power as a spoil, to serve micro-party interests, in other words, sacrificing the national interest. It is not a responsible opposition to enjoy the hospitality of the President of the United States, Donald Trump, in the White House, by giving him credit when I am a Prime Minister and being head of the course of the American Embassy when I lose the Prime Minister when, in fact, nothing has happened to justify this action. That is why the New Democracy proposal is coming to shield our Constitution and democracy from such future high-cost political moves. The motion for a resolution is a simple and consistent proposal that is compatible with the constitutional framework. It is only the merger of the two phases currently in force for the election of the Head of State without any elections being held, since in the last vote, the President of the Republic is elected by a majority, as is provided for today by the Constitution. The way that our resignation suggests has only advantages. First of all, three times the opportunity is given to the House to choose and speed up the broadest possible consensus for the election of the Head of State, only if this consensus is not achieved, it is seeking to achieve an absolute majority of fifty-one Members. Therefore, the person of the President of the Republic, the supreme state-runner of the country and the guarantor of the unity of our people is placed beforehand outside party seats and trades, because the supreme position must not be used as a field for political manoeuvre on a constitutional charter with the party interest in promoting the consensual choice of constitutional regulation, because at last we must learn from our mistakes as a nation and as a people and not repeat them for a multitude. Ladies and gentlemen, our resignation was passed by the people to drive away insecurity from towns and villages and bring a sense of security everywhere. It was voted to contrast with those seeking turmoil and champagne and bring political stability. Therefore, bring new investment climate to our country with direct and indirect investment. So, against all those who are supposed to welcome growth, they are actually working on creating conditions of political unrest and on serving small-party interests and even using the election of the President of the Republic to do so, I call on you to vote on our proposal for the revision of Article 32, in order to ensure that our country continues to be a pillar of stability in the wider region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u377	Next speaker, Mr Kyranakis Konstantinos, from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u378	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, I will be a little out of the question of what has been discussed in today's sitting and in line with a non-microphone debate which has just been held in the New Democracy's headquarters, as to whether the Constitution is a problem in our everyday lives, I would like to address all the parliamentary groups by tabling a proposal as a Member. It is a pity that Mr Loverdos, who at the first meeting of the Committee on Revision of the Constitution, had said - and thus gave me the courage to work on a proposal too - that in the Constitution beyond the parliamentary groups there is also the role of the Member. So I took the initiative to work and table with my good colleague Mr Kotsira from New Democracy an addition to Rule 73. But I'm starting with this. There is a provision in the Constitution, Article 74(5), which is constantly being violated. What does this arrangement say? It says that "the bill or proposal for a law containing provisions which are irrelevant to their main subject matter is not introduced for discussion". And he further strengthens it and says that "addition or amendment not related to the main object of the bill is not introduced for discussion". The same ban exists in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and this same ban is constantly violated under the responsibility of all parties and all governments, to be fair and objective. I would therefore like, in presenting this proposal, to try to prove its necessity by an example. I have here in front of me - and this is not a political criticism - the Katrugalou law. I repeat, it is not a political criticism of the Katrugalou law. I have Law No.4387/2016, which, in Article 23(d), states: ‘The provisions of the second subparagraph of paragraph 6, Article 1 of Law No.3408/2005 and of Article 23(b)’, etc. and refer to a previous law. So I went to the previous law, Mr.3408/2005, who also referred to Article 1(6) in turn - to understand what this amendment is - to Law 3075/2002. So I went to Law 3075/2002, which, in turn, refers to Article 10, which also refers to paragraph 166/2000, which I found - after a lot of research with my associates - and which is referred to in Article 9 - in order for the reader to understand exactly what he refers to - to four previous laws, the fourth being what he says: 'The Government of the Kingdom of Greece', a 1951 FEC. What do I mean by that example? This is because, at the moment, the Constitution allows us as a parliament only to legislate with draft laws or legislative proposals. And so, any amendment of an existing law must necessarily go into an outstanding, any pending bill that we are discussing and voting on every time in plenary. This practice has led to a legislative chaos, in my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, because the legal order today only seems unlike a class. And any accountant, lawyer, judiciary, or public administration official, and if you ask, the same thing will find out and the same thing will say. This problem had even been identified by a private company - fellow lawyers certainly know it - which, by exploiting this gap, exploiting this structural problem which exists in the irresponsible way of legislating, has in turn created an application which effectively codifies all these chaotic legislation. I mention this because if there were no structural problem, which I am presenting to you today, there would be no service provided. So imagine the country's legal order as a library. Each shelf has its own main theme. And within each shelf, apart from "books" - where books, put provisions - which deal with the main issue, let's say taxation, education, investment, insurance, together there are other unrelated books, i.e. unrelated provisions, which no place has there. So at the moment, with the proposal that I tabled to the Review Committee, it will be very easy for each book to enter the right shelf, for each provision to enter into the right law, the law to which it belongs and the law to which it amends. How's that gonna happen? With the following addition to Rule 73, which I shall be tabling for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Konstantinos Kyanakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned addition, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Provisions amending laws which could not be incorporated into pending bills due to lack of relevance may be discussed and voted individually, as laid down in the Rules of the Parliament. That is the proposal I make to the House. This simple and self-evident addition, in my opinion, will allow us to establish a procedure in the Rules of Procedure of the House on the basis of which any amendment to existing law will find its place directly in the law that amends it and not in any irrelevant bill. He will be able to do so, and so we will eliminate the operative cause of the pluralism and evil in the Greek legal order and preserve any attempt to codify. They have also been made by today, but also by previous governments, many efforts to codify them which, in order to ensure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u379	For that, from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u380	For that, from now on. Of course. That's right, partner. In order to ensure any encoding effort, we should stop putting inappropriate amendments to irrelevant bills. So everything will be much more accessible, much more simply, much more understandable to the legislation that concerns and concerns the citizens of this country. Active citizens, journalists, social groups, will be able to easily identify problematic provisions and propose changes that they consider useful for the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. I don't want to abuse time. I therefore call on the rapporteurs of all the parties, but also individually from colleagues who, perhaps, are interested in supporting this proposal, to take it from the Minutes and, together, to try to put an end to the absurdity of the unrelated amendments and the pluralism we have produced in these years, not only for procedural reasons, but above all for the sake of upgrading our democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u381	Mrs Papakostas - Palura Catherine from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Kyranakis, who, although out of the question, was also crucial and important. You will allow me to remain on the subject, since I think that this is really a moment when each and every one of us has a huge responsibility. This is because the decisions that we are taking today define the political stability of our country, the orderly functioning of the administration, the upgrading of the authority and credibility of the political system, but also the prediction - and let me insist on this point - that we do not fall back into shame, such as the ones we have lived since 2009 and, hence, with the economic crisis. The agenda today puts us before a very important constitutional change, Rule 32 and the way in which the President of the Republic is elected. The changes we are proposing to Article 32 of the Constitution are essential. On substance, we are trying to shield the institution of the President of the Republic from working and using the election procedure for micro-party benefits. It is a given fact that the President of the Republic, and because of his direct relationship with the city, has to be the result of compositions, consensus and cooperation. After all, achieving broad majority voting in the election of the President of the Republic is a strong confirmation of constitutional legitimacy, but also of the democratic accountability of the political parties. However, the scope of the powers of the President of the Republic does not justify the dissolution of the House in the event of no consensus being reached in its election. Today, the need to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House is an institutional aspect in the functioning of the state which ensures political stability and preserves the mandate of the people. After all, society itself, which has many proved to be a precedent for the legislative body, requires, in fact, a characteristic example of the adventures of December 2015. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that since Article 32 and his limitations we have experienced traumatistic experiences for the country in the past. The institution of the President of the Republic became a communication trick and a game of blackmailing stability in the hands of political formations, aiming to overthrow governments and halt government work, leading to a political deadlock. The proposal tabled by SYRIZA, therefore, that is to say, directly to the people following any successive insidious votes to elect the President of the Republic, may lead, with mathematical accuracy, to the denomination of a government. On the other hand, the New Democracy proposal is clear. After any four fruitless efforts required for the first two two two two two two votes, after a hundred eighty and a hundred fifty-one votes, to allow for a next vote to be held in the same House and between the two majority of the votes, it shall be deemed to have been elected President of the Republic of Cyprus, the one who raised the majority in question. Ladies and gentlemen, another article to which I should like to refer today is Article 68(2), which provides for the possibility of a committee of inquiry. Our proposal for review comes to strengthen Parliament's democratic function, to increase its credibility, and also to strengthen parliamentary control of smaller parties, which so far do not have the parliamentary powers to carry out their audit work. What do we say? We say that there will be the possibility of setting up two committees of inquiry, on a proposal from at least ten Members, if this proposal is voted in favour of two-fifths of all Members. In this way, we are strengthening control, which is a feature of the political attitude of both the New Democracy party and our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis himself. With this proposal, the Committee of Inquiry ceases to be the prerogative of only the strong majority, but takes the role it ought to have and must have, in other words, be a control mechanism for all. This is undoubtedly a huge innovation in the Constitution, which we expect all of Parliament's political forces to support, accepting that this government and this parliamentary majority operate in the spirit of composition, consultation and cooperation. We will remain faithful to what we have been called to do. In the context of a review process that limits the margins of the changes due to the proposals to be reviewed by the previous Parliament, we will recommend changes characterised by youth, innovation, perspective and a strengthening of the democratic functioning of the state. So each of us takes responsibility for it. And that responsibility will certainly follow us for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u383	Mr. Dr. Theodore has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u384	Thank you very much, Mr President. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that this debate which has been initiated for months since the first stage of the review process, the debate on the nomination and the Review House, will not end so easily, despite Mr Rusopoulos's opinion that a case-law was created with the intervention of SYRIZA. It will not end, because this distinction of the fields of competence, content and responsibility of the Proposed and the Revisionary Parliament cannot be chosen according to the feasibility of each case, and one emphasising each other. The procedure linking the Proposing and the Revision House has a single procedure and is coherent. And it couldn't have been different. I am not a constitutionalist, but I am aware of many points of view that have been made. Obviously, not common sense, not simple logic, but fair reason, I would say, must stand up to this choice. I refer to the welfare of the Constitution in the selection process for the revision of articles of the Constitution that distinguishes the vote in the Proposed House with a hundred or eighty-one votes or more in relation to the necessary majority called for by the Revision House to form. That is to say, for the citizens who do not know it, it means that if a proposal to change or change an article takes a hundred or sixty votes, less than a hundred eighty one in any event - in the first House, a majority of more than eighty-one votes are required in the second House. On the contrary, if it receives more than eighty - eighty - one, it is required in the second House, in the Revision, smaller minority. This connection, organic and functional, results, shows I think the best and most indisputable way, that yes, there is a discrepancy of roles and contents and targets between the two Boulevards, in the two phases, but it cannot be completely disconnected. Therefore, the vote in the Review House must be consistent and follow-up to the proposal put forward in the Proposing House. In fact, New Democracy's smuggling in the article on the election of the President of the Republic to vote in the proposed parliament something he did not agree on so that it now comes to the final stage of the Revision House to impose its opinion with a hundred and fifty one votes, it is indeed a smuggling act and it is, in fact, a violation and exceedment of the well-defined constitutional commitments, which not only require consensus but also require a 'base' for this whole process. To this end, I would like to welcome very much what Mr Javaras said a moment ago: to defend the parties. It's a very serious matter. I wish we could make a political contract, Mr Colleague, defend the parties. Because the parties - I think - are associations of people, citizens' associations, with a single programming convergence of views, which are working on programme proposals for society, to be adopted by society and to be effective political act and practice, and in public life to achieve legislative arrangements, but also other political choices adopted by the social body and proposed by the parties, the associations of individuals. This is the political party's quintusia. Now, of course, what it is all about what is a party, much more citizens, we cannot ignore it. That's where we have to defend them. However, the fact that this function and the quintourism of the party targeting are reduced if, in addition to the proposal put forward for approval in the electoral process, it is also extended to referendums, under the terms and conditions laid down, etc. Why, in other words, this drafted political proposal of a party, citizens' associations, in addition to every four years' testing of electoral competition and the vote of citizens, which will be tested on a case-by-case basis and coordinates and on a number of specialized issues that form independently critical choices, are not defence of the parties? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In that context, I would say exactly that what happened in 2014 is not that SYRIZA caused elections, refusing to elect a President of the Republic. SYRIZA did not accept the trick of the then government of Samaras to avoid the process that still had a way to elect the President of the Republic and to blackmail political consents of the whole opposition, but also of part of the Greek society, in a policy that had led to a total deadlock. And in his attempt to find a way out, Mr. Samaras wanted to lure other forces to cancel the dynamics of the prospect of SYRIZA's political announcement. In this direction, therefore, I would like to say that the crucial issue of how we choose not to dissolve the House - it is a proposal of the SYRIZA and it is in agreement with the entire political spectrum - has difficulties in practical implementation, how we choose to lead to the major, not to break down the House because of the election of the President of the Republic. There may be any criticism in our proposal - to discuss it, it is acceptable - or other proposals that have been tabled. But look at this: the President of the Republic is a person of prestige - he must be - trusted, without strong powers. Why? In order not to become involved on a daily basis in the continuing political friction and not to be destroyed as an institution and as a person for the moment that it will be required - and for this reason the Constitution as a Presiding Democracy - to perform its role - not only symbolically, but also essentially - at critical and substantive moments required by unity, which requires the consensus required to overcome conflicts and which may not only symbolize them, but also pursue them and achieve them. So this person and this institution cannot be put on one, two, three, four years in constant wear, with tasks and responsibilities involved in everyday political competition. He must be outside of him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Dritsa, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u386	This does not mean that they are reduced. It is just a protected institution and a protected person to be maintained by it. So this person, who wants to perform the role of the leading function of the President-in-Office, which, according to the Constitution, is not revising, we want it to be elected by a close party? Is this possible to accept?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Dritsa, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u388	I shall conclude, Mr President. One more phrase. I think we're at the end of the process now. Until Monday when the final votes are to take place, there must be reflection and not just one anti-professional, both at the same time. Let them not accept our proposal. But let them work out another that gives the President of the Republic a real authority. Because this proposal does not give any prestige and does not guarantee the city. That's what this is about. In this respect, therefore, and because we must not distort Article 1 of the Constitution, which provides that the President-in-Office should not be re-examined, it is therefore necessary to see - and we have proposed it - exceptionally and with guarantees and guarantees that the people's verdict is finally brought to an end, subject to conditions. In any case, however, whatever criticism is made in our proposal, this does not justify the proposal to elect a president on the basis of party criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u389	Good. All right, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u390	It is precisely the circumvention of Article 1 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u391	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u392	To what is the staff, Mr. Russopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u393	Honourable Mr Dritsa gave me a phrase that I did not say. The phrase "Today's vote will be a future case law", said twice in the morning sitting by the former President of Parliament and a SYRIZA official Mr Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u394	Good. Mr. George Tsipras has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I shall return to the issue of the unconstitutional approach of the New Democracy on the question of how to elect the President of the Republic. It is not the first time in the revision process that changes the content of a revised provision by the proposing in the decisive House. But it is the first time that a provision has been revised in the opposite direction. On the contrary, not only in the direction defined by the Proposing Parliament but also in the direction in which it consented by voting in the Proposed House, the then Minority, which today is a majority. And that's a very bad precedent. The oldest versions of constitutionalists, read by the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoulus, about the possibility, on the contrary, of changing content rather than opposite content. Mr. Loverdos said the unheard of. We were insulted by the fact that we did not have any butt in the House, so that the majority of fifty-one votes were not enough now, recognizing that the spirit of reviewing the order was very different from the majority in the House in relation to what the majority is seeking today. Indeed, if today's majority were to be chosen to change the amendment of Article 86, by giving even greater protection to the ministers, would that be a constitutional, legal thing? The rapporteur, Mr Javarras, has attempted to overcome this obvious contradiction between what New Democracy voted for as a trick a few months ago and what he is saying now, saying what? Saying that both views of the New Democracy and SYRIZA converge in avoiding the early interruption of the parliamentary term. But, really, was that the problem alone? So if we could abolish the state institution of the President of the Republic in constitutional terms, would you be satisfied? Because that's about what you're trying to do. What have we had so far? A state system with two distinct and independent poles, the parliament and the President of the Republic, where either the National Representation would seek a consensus of increased majority in choosing the person of the President of the Republic, or a new national delegation, expressed up by popular vote, would elect the President of the Republic by at least fifty votes. What was the problem in the current provision? That the Major Opposition could take advantage of this process to provoke elections. What does today's majority suggest? To make the choice of the President of the Republic, to choose a simple majority and essentially of the government, even if the government and the majority have actually lost the people's confidence. This could not happen with the current constitution, and it certainly could not happen with our proposal, which you yourself voted on a few months ago. What does the provision we propose ensure? Firstly, that the political forces are pushing more than the current provision, seeking a consensus solution. Secondly, that the incentive to create new parliamentary elections no longer exists. Thirdly, with fear of recourse to the polls for the election of the President of the Republic, the person they propose must have wider popular and parliamentary acceptance. Fourthly, even if elections to the President of the Republic are provoked, we do not have an early break in the parliamentary term. Finally, in each of the above cases, the prestige of the President of the Republic is strengthened either by consensus or by popular vote. What is the proposal of today's majority? Instead of resolving the problem of early recourse to parliamentary polls - a problem for one pole of the state system - it simply degenerates the second pole, that of the President of the Republic, degenerates the state system into a system that, in essence, the government in question chooses itself the President of the Republic. Thousands of times the current system! We do not - as the majority supports - two proposals converging with the same result, that is to say, the avoidance of early recourse to ballots. But we have, on the one hand, the current constitution and our proposal, which improves it, and on the other hand, a proposal from the New Democracy that degenerates the state system. The problems and complications that the New Democracy proposal will create if it is voted on will be much greater for the political system than it is supposed to resolve. But is that really the majority view of the state system, or is something sadr? Does it simply seek to make the Mitsotakis Government's short-term pursuits as well as its internal problems as it is in the next few months? The system proposed by the New Democracy does not exist anywhere in Europe. And this requires a minimum of attention. She's so serious about her proposal! In Europe there are systems of reigning democracy. There are also systems in the presidential process, where we have two parallel electoral procedures for President and Parliament. And finally, we have systems of the President-in-Office. Nowhere in Europe - nowhere! - in the systems of a President-in-Office, we do not have procedures to promote the President from relative or minimal majority voting by the House. Even where separate elections are not held for the election of President, we have enlarged bodies of electors elected President of the Republic and not a simple majority of the House. It's a unique thing! Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this latter, I would like to point out here that, with all the political forces, with the exception of the Greek Solution, the New Democracy, the majority, you have the least relationship with developments in Europe and democracy in Greece remains behind. Which countries of the European Union have referendums been held in the past decades? All of them! All except Greece and Cyprus! There have been referendums on entry to NATO, on entry to the European Union, on Maastricht, on other internal issues. In Greece none of the 1974 referendum by 2015 and the SYRIZA government referendum. What does that look like? Fear for expressing the will of the people? Fear of any direct democratic process? The 1975 Constitution was a relatively progressive constitution. Greece and its Constitution, 1975, was not a return to the situation before the junta. The resistance to the junta, the Polytechnic insurrection, had preceded the tragedy of Cyprus and a completely different association of power had been formed. The 1975 Constitution reflected this correlation. Today, Greece comes out of another disaster, social and economic this time, that of the deep crisis and the memoranda. Today we needed a new constitution, which reflects the profound changes in people's habits. Unlike 1975, however, the current New Democracy, mutatis mutandis, is a much more conservative party. It's backwards. Of all the progressive elements of other constitutions in Europe, you do not want to introduce absolutely anything for the separation of the Church - State, for the elimination of discrimination, for the preservation of the public character of social goods or for the guarantee of a decent life for all citizens, nor for referendums and other media-democratic processes. The only thing you want to introduce from Europe is freedom of establishment for private universities. Incidentally, even if this freedom existed, but it was in force in the regulatory framework of Western European countries rather than Turkey, it could not operate in our country a private university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u396	Mr Vassiliou - Peter Spanakis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today our House is discussing the amendment of Rule 32, namely paragraph 4 of the Constitution, concerning the election of the President of the Republic. You will, however, allow me to begin my position, reminding the House and those who are watching us, what an experienced man, a wise parliamentary man, said on 8 December 2014. So Constantine Mitsotakis said about the constitutional review: "There can be no sign of the place to precipitate if there is no minimum of understanding. There must be agreement on the revision of the constitution. Greece will not come out of the deep economic crisis it has entered, unless the Constitution is changed. Whatever structural changes we do, they are not enough. They need deeper areas, which are only constitutional areas." That is what the honorary President of the New Democracy said and commented that it is difficult to do so, since the House is exchanging insults instead of dialogue. And the honorary President of a party who twice had fallen from the government, while the country was on a development path, because some political opponents chose to work on the election of the President of the Republic. And, ladies and gentlemen, a key question arises: should the election of the President of the Republic be linked to the maintenance or fall of a government? And in any case, what has the recent past shown in the political life of the country when the fall of a government occurred? He had taught two basic things: First, that the country was stopping from the development orbit and entered adventures at economic level, with serious consequences for the life of the Greek people. Secondly, the country was unfortunately losing its credibility outside its borders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not exaggerating at all. I would like us all to remember together in September 2009, when George Papandreou announced that he would not support Charles Papoulias for the President of the Republic in order to cause a fall in the government of Costas Karamanlis, at the same time as Costas Karamanlis made an open invitation to George Papandreou for unity and response to the crisis that was coming. And then a small-party interest was prevailed against the Greek people. But remember the recent 2014? When was the top of the election process of the President of the Republic by SYRIZA, and personally by Alexis Tsipras, who threw the government of New Democracy, to go where? In the era of the first time, left, in the era of hope for Greece! And we finally came to talk about over four million debtors in the public sector and the insurance funds, debts of more than 104 billion in tax, packages that were multiplying every day for a record of legacy seizures and denominations from the heirs who could not inherit their fathers and grandparents. So you reached Greece on the edge of the cliff, gentlemen of SYRIZA. And it comes today with an incredible maturity and a unified climate for the Greek Parliament to vote for the Constitutional Review in specific articles and you, gentlemen, dare this morning to raise the issue of unconstitutionality for only one key reason, to return to us again in 2014, with all the results known. I mean, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the Didn't you mind? Didn't the numbers teach you? Didn't you get the message of July 7, when the Greek people told you that they wanted a credible government, a government that would take Greece forward, a bold reform government that would re-establish our country abroad? And finally, the Greek economy will gain the credibility it deserves, to see investments, to see new jobs, to see the smile again on the lips of the Greeks. And what do you come here to do? Hide yourself behind words again. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that what I'm saying is bothering you. In simple terms, however, Greece has no time to play games and experimentation. It takes governmental stability, it takes a four-year government that will lead it to growth. That's what you're afraid of, gentlemen of SYRIZA, admit it. While you were in the government, you were anxious to commit this House to the direction of the articles of the Constitutional Review and that was an indirect assumption of your defeat that was coming. From the position now on, you have the anxiety to convince us that the New Democracy is supposed to be trying to relax the institution of the President of the Republic, and this is an indirect assumption of your fear that we will be running out in the four years and we will complete the work of regeneration of the Greek economy and of the country. The President of the Republic shall be the supreme ruler of the Hellenic State. Its election is a high symbolism, and it is at the same time or should be a political act rather than a Trojan horse to overthrow a government. It is vile to hear SYRIZA in this Chamber accusing us of playing micro-party games on this issue and of saying that the proposal that we make undermines the institutional role of the President of the Republic. It is at least hypocritical, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that our proposal affects the very form of the constitution as the President-in-Office of the Republic. The New Democracy has respected the supreme state ruler since 1975 and has dealt with him in practice as a symbol of unity and not as a partisan division game. The New Democracy has never used the President of the Republic as a tool to seize power since 1975. You did it. It is unacceptable, ladies of the SYRIZA, to say that what we are proposing in the review procedure is that the President of the Republic can be elected even by the minimal parliamentary majority, thereby depriving him of the opportunity to act as a regulator of the country above the party disputes. The New Democracy's proposal for the revision of Rule 32 is clear: we have three original votes, the first and the second with two two Members and the third with eighty. If the third vote is not elected President, then after five days, the President will be elected by a hundred and fifty-one votes, i.e. an absolute majority of the total number of Members. And I conclude by saying that if this majority is not achieved, after five days the vote shall be repeated between the two majority and deemed elected President of the Republic which gathered the majority. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the Greek people see us - that this government has a fresh people's mandate. We're not at the finish as you were in 2019. We're at the beginning. A new beginning for the Constitution, for a balanced constitution. A new start, however, for our Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u398	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u399	Thank you very much, Mr President. I just want to point out to the previous colleague spokesman of the New Democracy that the late Constantine Mitsotakis supported the immediate election of the President of the Republic, as was his party signed by the current President, Mr Mitsotakis, and the previous President, Mr Samaras, the proposal that SYRIZA has put forward regarding the election of the President of the Republic. Let me also point out to him - although he does not listen to me - that in 2008 the country was not in development, but it was already in the crisis, as all European and international institutions and statistics proved then. And of course, our country has emerged from the memorials in 2018, which is now your Minister, Mr Stagioras, admits but is also recorded in all relevant budgetary and financial figures in the preliminary draft budget. Ladies and gentlemen, our debate is closed. I do not want to repeat very interesting and important arguments that have been developed very thoroughly by our rapporteur-general, by our Parliamentary representative and by all the colleagues who have spoken. I would like to focus on three points, since we can now draw some conclusions, some conclusions from this debate. Of course the election of the President of the Republic is the major issue of today's unity that we are discussing. The broadest consensus, in which most parties have been led, is that the election of the President of the Republic should not lead to a break-up of the House. However, this proper attempt to free itself from the dissolution of the House cannot lead, because it would be paradoxical - as the President of the Republic and his role - to reduce the legitimacy of the President of the Republic, to weaken his prestige, to reduce the wider consensus required and ultimately the regulatory factor in the constitution to emerge from this revision weakened. That's a paradox. I'm sure there's no easy solution. We, in our proposal, approached it and found a solution which the people are going through without breaking down the House and elections in order to overcome this problem. Mr Gerapitris asked why we are protesting, since in the current constitution there is the provision of a relevant majority. He has failed, however, to say that this provision exists, since the people's factor in the current constitution is the elections, what we now want to prevent. I therefore accept that there is an honest discussion, with its ideological and political approach, we must take into account two things. Firstly, the lessons of a crisis. Ten years ago, in 2008, we were not imagining what was going to happen, but we saw a weakening of the sense of trust of the Greek people - like the citizens of Europe as a whole - in the institutions. Is this the time to lead us to weaken a leading institution in the city, such as the President of the Republic? I listened very carefully to Mr Javarra, who I very much appreciate, who spoke very well this morning and said that they will be pursued - and I accept that this is your intention, I do not question it - broader consensus in the procedure of the President of the Republic. But here we are not coming to make a constitutional revision for today, for the juncture, for the next election of the President of the Republic. This is for the next five, ten, fifteen years. We don't know what's gonna happen. We see the world around us. We see what is happening in the institutional framework of America, Britain, situations that no one thought we would see experience the institutional and constitutional regimes of these countries. So, in this sense, I think you should consider and think very seriously, because in some way you are also responsible for what will follow in the future, the ultimate but perhaps the most immediate future. Saying these to Mr Stylianides, our President of the Commission, we had the opportunity last week to take part together in a very interesting debate in the Athens Bar Association - full of the courtroom with fellow lawyers - which was organized by the Association of Greek Journalists. I must tell you - and Mr Stylianides is here to confirm this - that on this issue, which, in particular, focused, was the issue of the relative majority and even more of the election in the event of an elder's equalisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u400	We dropped it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u401	You withdrew it. I didn't know, 'cause I wasn't here all the time. That is very positive. That was indeed a good thing, and I am pleased that you are saying that. As far as the relevant majority is concerned, I must tell you that the State Council, which was also present, and the President of the Association of Journalists, who had nothing to do with SYRIZA, and the lawyers, colleagues below, raised a matter for this and raised it with concern. That is why I believe that it is a matter which you must consider very much and under no circumstances can the majority elected President of Parliament be under the declared. First of all, because, as long as there is the government and the whole process is not to dissolve the House, there is a statement that the President of the Republic is proposing, and if we take another scenario - because I cannot think of what leads you to this proposal - a government of cooperation, it still has the declared one. However, even if there is disagreement between the parties establishing a government of cooperation, you understand that this government cannot stand, if only one part of it votes on the President of the Republic and the other not. I am therefore saying this because I think it is worth saying that it is not just controversy, although we consider our proposal to be the most appropriate one. I am very pleased to hear and understand from Mr Gerapetititi's speech that you are making progress as a majority in accepting our proposal for a popular legislative initiative. I think this was a good thing, and I think it was an inconsistency on the part of the majority, as well as in the Treaty of Lisbon, and at the moment there is the possibility for a million European citizens to initiate such a process. I can understand what Mr Javarras says and I agree with Mr Dritsa that the parties, like you said, are a basic institution in the functioning of democracy. Others, although the parties have been affected by the crisis, in the sense of how they operate on many occasions with the state, with the citizens, with the initiatives they take, but they remain a key institution for planning, active citizens' participation. However, I do not think it conflicts with giving the opportunity at this time to direct democratic procedures. Clearly we are open to discuss certain conditions. I imagine that this is an issue that we can discuss by Monday. But I think it will be a positive step. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are therefore pleased that this proposal is accepted - I am closing, Mr President, in half a minute - and I believe that it is a sign of trust for the Greek people as well. We are calling for the restoration of the confidence of the Greek people to us, the parties, the political staff, but people's sovereignty means that we, too, do not question the maturity and the possibility of actively participating and renewing with its participation, not just in persons, but also in struggles, such as for example the issues of young people and climate change, which may be such a matter of direct democracy. I am closing down, expressing my pleasure at having a broader consensus on your proposal for committees of inquiry. We, as you know, would probably like to have more potential. In any case, we think it is a basic step towards democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u402	Ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u403	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u404	Mr. Stylianides, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u405	Because I know that Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou's speech is always fruitful and essential and has made some arguments in favour of the issues we have discussed today, before this debate is closed, I would like to give two explanations. Firstly, the issue of the relative majority is, in fact, accepted as was the case in the Constitution for purely practical reasons. We think, as the old constitutional legislator thought at the time: there must be no institutional vacuum. Because the simple analogue has been passed and we still have it before us, at a time when the country may not have a government, it cannot have a President. So in any case there should be a provision. No one would want a president to come out either before or now with a relative majority. That is clear, I think, in the Chamber, but there should be a provision in order not to create any gaps at all. As far as the legislative initiative is concerned, we have entered the debate because we believe that this proposal may even more activate part of society, part of the public being involved in the public. However, we have made some fundamental reservations, because we do not think that the representative and parliamentary character of the society should be shaken in any way, excluding from this area the issues relating to foreign and defence policy and defence, and I believe that the budgetary issues should also be taken into account and, of course, limiting the number of legislative initiatives, the proposals for legislation, that is to say, which may come from the activation of citizens. These are two clearly reasonable reasons why we are invoking, so that we can explain why we are dialectic in the first place. We are dialectical, open, and we are discussing, because we really believe that in this House, the Review, we should be compiling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr. Stylianides. The debate on the revised provisions of the Constitution, which corresponds to the third and eighth thematic section of the Constitutional Review Committee, namely institutional provisions: referendum, popular legislative initiative and election of the President of the Republic, Articles 37(2), 38(1) and (2), 68(2), 84(2), 28(2), 44(2), 73 and 32(4) and (5) of the Constitution, is hereby concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-20-S1-commons.u407	With the consent of the House at 22.50 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 21 November 2019 at 12.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: Parliament's decisions, continuation of the debate on the revised provisions of the Constitution, in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure: 5th and 9th thematic section of the Commission: Articles 62, 86 para. 3, 86 (importation of an interpretative declaration), 54 para. 1,54 (addition para. 4), 54 (importation of interpretative statement) and 56 (addition para. 5), in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
