ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliament's decisions: debate and decision on proposals for revision of provisions of the Constitution, in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-seven students and students and four educational sessions from the 13th General School of Peristeri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 119(5) of the Rules of Procedure, the proposals for revision are discussed in a proportionate manner with the provisions of Rules 95 to 104 of the Rules of Procedure, namely the ordinary legislative procedure and the debate refers exclusively to the need to revise and to the revised provisions. The subject of today's debate is the proposals for revision submitted by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Groups, the New Democracy, in particular the report by the Revision Committee, and two more proposals by Members. The report is available to those Members who want to take it. With regard to the organisation of the debate, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 16 February 2019, I propose that two meetings, one on the principle and the revised provisions be made available. Two meetings - I make it clear - without interruption from morning to night, so that we do not have any further debates on the hours and all the meetings needed for the issues. In particular, at the first meeting, that is to say, all members of the Review Committee will be placed as follows: The six of them will be given the floor as the rapporteur and the special speaker with twenty minutes of speaking time. The remaining forty, of course, if they want to talk forty, they will speak for ten minutes each. The listing order has been nominated by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. After the speeches of the forty-six in total - possibly forty-six I repeat - members of the committee, we will enter a second circle of fourteen speakers with proportional representation of the parliamentary groups as follows: Five from the SYRIZA, three from the New Democracy, one from the other four parliamentary groups and two independent MPs, who will also speak for ten minutes each. The second sitting, tomorrow, will be made available for the speeches of Parliament's representatives for twelve minutes each and the chairmen of Parliament's groups with the time laid down in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. Ministerial speeches will be held at the two meetings with speaking time for the relevant ministers in the twenty minutes and for the other Ministers in the ten minutes. Then a roll-call vote will be followed by a roll-call vote on the revised provisions. The lists, and after we have arranged for them to be at the Conference of Presidents at 12.45 p.m., we will give them to all our colleagues tomorrow afternoon so that the groups can take care of them in peace. We have said tomorrow at 8 p.m. tomorrow evening to vote, that is to say that all colleagues will bring them. The procedure will take place in two stages, namely the committees responsible for tomorrow's vote and a first vote will take place, but the next day from the competent services of Parliament in the presence of Members and we will give the result on Thursday at noon, because you realise that there are many articles and that something will not happen. But we won't be late tomorrow night. The 22.00 ́ we've said can be the ultimate limit to close this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u4	First of all, thank you very much for giving me the floor, which I asked for on two points, Mr President. The first issue was raised yesterday in the Conference of Presidents, mainly by the Communist Party and by us. It is not possible for this debate on the Revision of the Constitution to rule out colleagues who do not belong to the figures you have said, but who want to talk about the Constitution. From our group, for example, the majority of colleagues want to speak. If possible, a purely parliamentary procedure should provide for the possibility - not that you are wrong - of other Members of the national delegation who wish to speak in this supreme parliamentary procedure. Mr President, I would therefore ask you very much to change your decision, your suggestion and not to apply the majority vote of the Conference of Presidents. As a sovereign House, this decision should not be taken so that it does not become what I fear will be done, that is to say, our complaint of a coup d'état procedure concerning the revision of the Constitution. That was the first issue. The second issue, which I thought you would put it because we discussed it at the Conference yesterday, is how to vote. You know very well that our Constitutional Review Committee has dealt with the question of directions and how we vote. You know very well that you are trapped as a majority of SYRIZA. You're trapped. You're trapped in that you're going to do a process of directions that also enclosed you. We have taken a very clear position from the first day of Parliament, so we will vote through a Member so that we do not allow the next Parliament to do just 151 to do what it wants. But this issue, Mr President, will be aroused by the House. We told the Conference yesterday not to get before the vote tomorrow night to discuss it. To discuss this not at the beginning of the procedure, not allowing the rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u5	But why do you repeat what I said? I said that at 12:45 there will be a Conference of Presidents, after the rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u6	No Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u7	But that's what the Conference decided yesterday. I was gone. I was in Cyprus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u8	I have another opinion on this. Can't I express it? Finally! You said about the Conference of Presidents. Yesterday we got a message that you don't prefer this process, but the conciliation procedure between the general rapporteurs that is better and better. Because the Conference of Presidents is a body that decides by majority vote, by minority vote. We need understanding, Mr President. We do not need majorities or minority groups. So you're wrong to suggest that. We are therefore proposing that the procedure should be initiated. Mr. Paradoxopoulos will tell you that throughout the committee's work our attitude was creative. We didn't raise any issues that could create blockages. We did not raise issues that could create overthrows. We have tried to be thorough in our proposals and not to create deadlocks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u9	Look, there's been a choice from Mr. Loverdos to start with another cycle, apparently to cancel yesterday's debate, to resolve these issues at a conference or in consultation...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u10	That's what you say. It was not yesterday, I repeat. Let me say. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u11	But will you tell me what happened yesterday? I don't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u12	Of course I'll tell you why you weren't there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u13	You think I don't know. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u14	You weren't there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u15	But is it possible I don't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u16	Will you allow me to finish in just one minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u17	I will allow you, but there are seven other Members of Parliament. So you want us not to start with the rapporteurs, but in the public interest to raise these issues. So that we do not gather as the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u18	I want to start with the rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u19	You want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u20	...and then I propose, instead of the Conference of Presidents, as was said yesterday by your own message, which you have now changed, that the rapporteurs-general try to reach agreement with you. If you want other procedures, please be very careful, because the procedure will not be overdue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u21	Okay, you said it wouldn't roll smoothly. You said something about a coup on 10.10 a.m., you did some hints, while two Conferences of Presidents have been held with detailed discussions to facilitate the process. I'm so sorry. What else can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u22	Don't be sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u23	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u24	Be glad I'm trying to help.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u25	Yeah, I'm glad. Mr. Tragakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would like to confirm what was said at the two previous meetings of the Conference of Presidents. First of all, as far as time is concerned, in fact, when I was President in 2007, it was allocated about forty hours to three meetings. I think the hours spent and now are enough. But in order for there to be enough vote to take place at 8 p.m., I would agree with Mr Loverdos' proposal that there should be another circle of speakers, which should not go with the power of the parties. For as far as the power of the parties is concerned, five - three - one - there are parties that do not have a second Member to speak. In other words, it's a bit different. In other words, parties with more parliamentary group to choose two, three speakers who will speak in another circle. With regard to what has been said, I will agree with you, because I do not think that the meeting of the rapporteurs will offer more than the Conference of Presidents. Because in such a procedure that we all want consensus, it is not possible for the Conference of Presidents to decide the majority. We have to go consensually. I believe and hope that we will go, because on the main issue that has been raised by us in committee - and all the members of the committee confirm it when the procedural issue has been raised - we must have eaten around one and a half hours and we have not yet finished. I think that if this process starts, we will have enough time from the speakers and from the point of view of the matter. I would therefore suggest, at 12.45 p.m., that the Conference of Presidents be held and that we resolve all the procedural issues, like that of the vote, Mr President. Keep what I'm saying. And I would like to remind you that in 2007 the vote had been taken with roll-calls and roll-calls. But that is where we had a scanner that passed the ballot and automatically came out. I think it will take us a long time to get the result of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u28	No, you won't take the floor. Mr. Pallis has asked for the floor. That's how we'll spend it in the morning. No conference will take place. I'll tell you what's going to happen at the end. It's not a matter. I'm too flexible in these matters. Democratically, we'll solve it. That is to say, the House will decide directly. Wait. Isn't that right, Mr. Venizelo?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u29	Harma!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u30	Of course, of course. You'll all talk. Alas. Here's the plenary, it'll decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u31	We want to talk about the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u32	For the Constitution, that's right. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. We have raised from the outset the question that it is not possible for a constitutional review to be done by spraying, wiped, done. Only two days and no right to speak. The first is how the debate is to take place. The discussions previously - and rightly so - took place with themes. It's gonna be all over the material here. A Member of Parliament from our party plus two rapporteurs is invited, in ten minutes, to say about all of this. It's impossible. And it is unacceptable, in our view. We made a proposal to be five days, at least. I mean, three, there's another round. Rejection. Rejection from both New Democracy and you. Forty hours they don't make it from morning to night. But how do they get there? Is that possible? To speak to a Member other than the rapporteurs from our party and everyone else. And from your party there are protests. And we don't understand that meaning, because so quickly. Why, then, are there not two more days available to talk to others? Of course, the issue of unity is also important. We will be fleeing from one subject to another and someone watching will not be able to draw a conclusion, apart from those who are a little specific. Of course, it was rejected after many praises both at the first and second conferences. It is only at the second conference that KINAL came out and said that we agree with this proposal. We and reintroduce it, I understand that you will reject it. However, it is a huge responsibility. There can be no debate in two days. Who should we say that to? Not even one serious bill is discussed in two days. In relation to the second point, I do not want to raise any question at all, because it makes no sense, in our view, whatever you decide. It is a theoretical issue that has no practical value. Whether it's directional or not, the next government can change it. So don't change, too. When you're opposition, you say one and now you say the other. We shall see that at the Conference of Presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u34	Members have been asked for the floor from the parliamentary representatives, whom I put first, because other colleagues have asked for the floor, such as Mr Pappas. Then Mrs Vaki will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u35	Yes, but the request for the Rules of Procedure precedes it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u36	Yes, we have noted you, Mr. Papatheodorou, Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Amyras and Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr. Papa, will you do me a favor, because he wants Mr. Venizelos to take the lead on an additional issue that he wants to raise?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u37	Please, I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u38	That's what I said. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. First I'll be a lacquer. One, two, three and we're done. I don't want to delay the process. But I would like to stress and make it clear to the House that, as we said yesterday in the Conference of Presidents, the issue of the constitutional charter is certainly of great importance and importance. And we suggest that all Members who are going to say and want to speak should speak without being excluded. And that means that the process can't be a fast track, that is, it can't end tomorrow night. We had proposed to take Thursday as well, which we see today is not to adopt. As far as procedural matters are concerned, we in the Conference of Presidents asked the debate to take place, not by opaque procedures, as has been said before in your office of the rapporteurs of all the parties, but to do so in the official way, the parliamentary, the established one. To be done with the Minutes which will be kept at the Conference of Presidents rather than with opaque conciliation procedures, because that is what is being called for. There's the whole point of the matter. And so far, no one has stressed that all the debate is being held for the hundred and fifty ones and for the eighty. And this is hypocritical both on behalf of SYRIZA and on behalf of the New Democracy. First, on behalf of SYRIZA, SYRIZA wants a hundred and fifty one in this House - in the nominated House of revision - and let it go a hundred and eighty to the next. And it is hypocritical on behalf of the New Democracy that - within introductory - "who" of the party when they do not ask for a hundred and eighty for the name of our Macedonia and ask for a hundred eighty for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure because Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure is organising the top, it is assumed, parliamentary procedure for the revision of the Constitution, a procedure that is rare, heavier. The House exercises sole responsibility in this case. The Government as such, as a body, does not take part in this procedure, but it is clear that the Minister for Justice, Mr Katrugalos, takes part in that procedure as a general rapporteur and not as Minister. Rule 119 just because it wants to protect all these features of the procedure, refers to Rules 95 to 104 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, it requires a debate in principle and, in principle and in principle, at least in modules and thus in the great Review, the 2001 consensus, in the first phase, which took place in 1998, five meetings. I accept that the full-day meetings could be seen as two-day meetings. But the meetings are not organised, as you have presented with your position at the beginning of the sitting. Because here, even if we accept, the debate will be consolidated in principle and in principle, that the rapporteurs and Members of Parliament will only have the floor once, there must be comfort, at least not to exclude any Member of this House from his own competence, without party discipline, without such a long tradition being bound by his party and expressed by his party. It acts and votes against consciously. It raises the Constitution of the country, amends it. In other words, it is doing an act of long historical time and not a bill that can change tomorrow and change again. So even if there are no articles in it, the debate must be held even uniformly, but with the participation of the Members who want it, because each one of them is expressed individually. It is also obvious that the subject of the debate must be identified. The subject of the debate is not the proposals for revision in general. The purpose of the debate is to take a decision under Rule 110 and Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, as expressly expressed. That is to say, a decision on the need to revise specific provisions of the Constitution. It's over! Nothing but that, like all previous times. Both in the 1986 Review and in the 2001 Review and in the 2008 Review. I would therefore ask that these be clarified, so that we have the context and the climate of the debate, because you realise that the climate is a burden anyway. So, are we going to review the Constitution consensually, in the long term, well-being? Yes, in what institutional environment? With what's happening in the House? With what's going on in justice? So at such a burden of institutions, with that kind of decay picture? So at least this should be considered in this case. To protect the Constitutional Review process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Mrs Vaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u44	I said first of all the parliamentary representatives and then you, Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u45	I request the floor on the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u46	Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure, together with Mr Amyras, because I think it is incomprehensible for such a critical issue, such as the Constitutional Review, which we have been debating in the House for months, to decide, today, in the House, that Members of this House should be deprived of the floor, whether independent or party-owned Members, in order to table their views on such an issue of such importance and importance. When I was informed that in the Conference of Presidents it was discussed and decided not to speak other than those who speak in the Constitutional Review Committee, I was really surprised.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u48	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u49	By a majority. I do not think there is a Member here who, for example, will say not to speak. For example, I have been informed that an Independent MEP will speak beyond the committees. And there is another point, Mr President, which you have stressed. This is that there is a special situation with many independent Members, more than twenty, I think, at the moment in plenary, and at the moment they lack the floor on such a matter of this importance. I think that even at the last moment it should be decided that a list of speakers will be opened to the first two rapporteurs, we will be enrolling those who want to speak and we will speak normally. Of course the members of the Constitutional Review Committee will be ahead of us, but I cannot imagine that our view will not be heard on such a matter of this importance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mrs. Vaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for a top political process of democracy, such as the Revision of the Constitution, I take the view that no one has an objection and that the procedure should be extended and that all Members should speak. However, there is no point in simply prolonging the process, prolonging the time, just to 'procedure' and jeopardise it. I consider it unacceptable to hear expressions, such as 'coupontary tactics', 'fast track procedures', that the wishes of Members who want to speak and so on are ignored. So let us tackle the issue with due seriousness, let us not go into pre-formative and endless 'procedures', and I think it would be right to take into account and wait for the outcome and decision of the Conference of Presidents. That is what I think must be done. I think it is unacceptable for you to express some and think that we want to shorten the procedure and so on. And say the other one. The reform process of the Constitution is not just exhausted in this plenary session. The House has also presided over this, which set up the committee which has debated and then next plenary in a month to vote. So it is not just exhausted in one, without, of course, trying to override the issue that arises and which is perhaps the will of all the Members of Parliament to take the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u52	Now Mr. Javaras has the floor, then Mr. Amyras and Mr. Papatheodorou. Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, the provision of Article 110 of the Constitution shows without any hesitation that the House is the sole body of the Review. Two very fundamental questions arise in this regard as to how the debate will be organised in the process that is taking place today. The first point is that it is not possible to have a Member who wants to speak, stand by, say his views and rule out because in advance we are restricting the right to a review speech, which, as I said before, has to be a parliamentary reason. The second question that exists is - because I see Mr Katrugalo as chosen to have his seat in the government and because we used him, during the discussions in the committee, to have the position of the rapporteur-general - that it should be clear from the principle that the government in this process has neither a role nor a reason. We are not, in the exercise of Parliament's exclusive competence, under a government commissioner, and this has to be made clear from the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Mr Amyras has the floor, and then Mr Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. As an independent MEP I have now been in a strange situation, I would say Treaty, my ability to put myself within Parliament on the issue of Constitutional Review to be associated and to be dependent on luck, whether or not my name will be closed or not, to the draw between a number of independent Members of Parliament to be placed. I, therefore, asked that my name should not be entered into the legacy because I do not want it to depend on my ability to speak from luck. Therefore, Mr President, I would also like to propose that we open a list of speakers - this is a top priority for Parliament - and that we have the opportunity and the comfort of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u56	Mr Papatheodorou has the floor, and I shall then make a proposal for you to proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I think I'll try to contribute to your proposal. Both Rule 110 of the Constitution and Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure speak of the two plenary sessions which result in roll-call votes, which have the purpose of discussing both the need for the revision and, as the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution say, the revised provisions. Think of the oxymobile, Mr President, being invited to a roll-call vote for a top parliamentary procedure such as that of the Revision of the Constitution and earlier, because of the procedural problems, they were unable either to be placed or to speak. We all understand that this oxymoil is being lifted very easily by a proposal from the Bureau - and I think we all express it here - by allowing the floor not only to be given to members of the Committee on Constitutional Review, but also to those Members who wish to speak. It may not be the three hundred, but it may be those who wish to be expressed, placed on both the need and the re-examined provisions, so that the roll-call vote in the first and second plenary sessions of this House can have substance. I think that this is a common democratic and constitutional place which cannot deny any wings and, above all, the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the 5th General High School of Ilioupoli. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can decide this as a plenary. The Conference of Presidents will not be held. Either way, I call it the Conference of Presidents. The Members will be given the opportunity to speak. There's no problem, and we can go by Thursday afternoon and tomorrow we'll go by 12 noon at night with talks. It's closed. The conciliation held last week was by a large majority of the Conference of Presidents. It doesn't matter. That's why we're talking, so we can...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u59	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u60	Yes, Mr. Loverdos, it was by a majority. You understand what I'm saying. It doesn't play any part. If this is the case in plenary, we have rightly discussed it and made a decision on the good part of the procedure. There's no matter. So they will either speak or anyone else who wants - because some of them may not - of the members of the Review Committee, all the others we have said and instead of a circle of speakers will see how many circles they will go out, depending on whoever they are registered with their card. There's no matter. We will be compressed for two and a half days - which, as the President said, is right, the two-and-a-half days are five, as we do - and everyone who wants to talk, without any problem, will speak. As far as the Ministerial Council is concerned, we must also resolve this in full, so that there are no shadows - I would say that beyond the competent Minister of Justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u61	No one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u62	Excuse me, please don't rush, Mr. Tragakis. Any other ministers who speak will speak as a MP in the minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u63	Put them on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u64	They will be registered, Mr Tragakis, in consultation with the government secretariat. Leave that to us. Don't go into the details of the proceedings. After basically agreeing to speak as parliamentarians in their time. If there is no objection from this House, let us continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u65	Mr. President, there is...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u66	There's a third issue. Mr. Loverdo, that's right. Just because the Conference of Presidents is not going to take place, I would ask the rapporteurs to consult each other in the proposal that has been made by you. I have no objections. I am neither a fan of the Conferences, when they are incomplete in the sense of questioning their outcome, nor has it ever gone to the House to do anything with a marginal majority of the Conference and you know that. Remember even once that has happened, bring it to me as an example. I say this because the reason for 'delaying procedures' and so on simply reproduces a climate that is a little problematic lately, but we do not have to charge it. I would ask the rapporteurs to be consulted on the guidelines on how the vote will take place until this afternoon - there are proposals in relation to this issue - to bring us a single proposal on how to vote or if there is no consensus on the single proposal, we will bring the matter to plenary at some point. We're gonna have a circle...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u67	What time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u68	In the afternoon sometime or noon late today. Anytime. We've got two days ahead of us. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u69	And tomorrow we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u70	And tomorrow morning, Mr. Loverdo. To have the broadest possible consensus on how the ballots will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u72	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u73	My question and suggestion at the same time is this: what you are saying will be done, it is right and the procedure goes well, as you have told us. However, we will seek to reach a consensus at noon today. If we do not succeed, and I see it most likely, I would ask you, tomorrow, to stop the flow of the speaker's position to discuss this through a special debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u74	That's what we said. Make a placement cycle. Like you said exactly. But it's obvious that we have to come to an agreement. Because I told you that at some point in the morning voting will also be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u75	To be the Conference of Presidents tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u76	No, it won't. Mr Tragakis, let me tell you, because, I repeat, I convene the Conference, I do not intend to convene a conference while the House is running, to the extent that the issues are coming here, and they are right, because the plenary finally decides on the issues. So I say that the rapporteurs are in a consultation, that they table their press proposals - it is not an organisational issue, it is an extremely political issue - of the lists and votes, how they will be made in terms of the articles. They have already held a first debate in the Committee on Revision. And tomorrow morning, perhaps before we start the procedure, that is, at the beginning of the procedure, we will have half an hour to decide what we are going to do. It will all be decided by Parliament and by the broadest possible consensus, in the sense of the intention of all of us. I think we agree. Please, Mr Katrugale, you have the floor as the first rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u77	Will we talk at first and then on the articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u78	I would like to ask you, because this has been the case by the Committee on Constitutional Revision, for the debate to take place on all the matter. The two largest parties had several MPs in the committee and would have separated the "regions" of the constitution that will be placed. But do not break the plenary procedure, since we are going to a process where everyone can talk. The list of speakers will be opened and closed after the end of the speech of the second rapporteur, the New Democracy, which is forty or fifty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u79	The MPs didn't know that. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u80	You're saying the MPs didn't know. To be notified by the parliamentary groups. The first two rapporteurs will be speaking for fifty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u81	In any case, they can't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u82	What am I supposed to do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u83	Leave the directory on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u84	How can he stay open? How long before he stays open? Some colleagues will speak from each party. Don't overdo it. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u85	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Catrugale, excuse me, but they won't leave me here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u87	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u88	Here you go, Mr. Heliopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u89	They should be declared by the parties' secretaries instead of the cards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u90	I have no objection to the statement made by the parties' secretaries by some colleagues who are not here. I have no objections. It should be as you think it is. To God! Mr. Catrugale, we had you a minute, but I'm sure you'd need it, and then either way. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every constitutional revision is of a historical nature. By definition, constitutionality as well as in the context of constitutional and revisional function determines the nature and functioning of the constitution, but also the living constitution, the way in which the Constitution is applied in practice. This Review has an additional historical dimension, because it coincides with - and signals - the country's return to European regularity. As a return to normality, I would first like to call upon the full recovery of our country's democratic sovereignty, after a critical period that has not tried the people and the country only economically but also institutionally. And this return is also characterised by a change in our country's international image by a debtor state to a state of protagonists of developments, with a leading role in his region, not expansively, but rather as a force of peace and stabilisation, as was clearly seen by the Ambassadors' agreement. Of course, return to normality doesn't mean returning to the past. One of the demands of the Constitutional Review is precisely that of the past, the one that recommended a pathogen status for our country. And there I am referring to the complexity of interests at the top of political power, to phenomena of clientism, which were not random but inherent in the political system. It is also being carried out at a time when Europe itself is being tested. And what will be normal after the May European elections is the big issue. We are really in the presence of a dilemma, where there are two frontal points of view about the future not only of the European Union but also of the Member States. On the one hand, this is the peculiar "marriage" of nationalism and liberalism. On the other hand, it is our progressive view, which wants social Europe with open societies, a Europe of rights and freedoms. The constitutional review procedure, as was carried out in committee, seems to me to have generally met the requirements of the juncture and had neither degressive nor coup d'état characteristics, despite the excessive and unfounded criticism which was heard by the Chamber. This is largely due to the President, Mr Paraskevi, and to his quality, as well as to the experience of Mr Tragakis and Mr Papatheodoros, of the co-chairmen. I would, however, like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur-General of the Grand Response, Mr Tsoula, for having been able to keep the level of the debate required by the Rules and the Constitution, confronting also extreme voices in his party, who wanted to change the debate into a kind of institutional blackmail, even threatening - there was an explicit speech in committee - with the withdrawal of the New Democracy, if we were unable to agree to revise Article 16, for which - as you know - we have a clear disagreement. It was also the contribution of other members of the committee, such as Mr Javara, Mr Venizelos and Mr Loverdou, as well as by specialisation, Mr Mavrota and Mr Giokas. I would like to believe that this level of institutional maturity which we have shown in committee will also be reflected in the plenary debates, so that we can have those consensuss that can emerge from it and demonstrate our real ideological and political differences, as must be done in a democracy. And they did become consents. There have been cases - as you know - and also critical ones, which New Democracy has voted in favour of our proposals. We considered it crucial for the price of the political world to have vast majority in the way in which Article 86 is to be revised and, secondly, Article 62. Because one of the critical diseases of the political system - to which I have referred - is inherent in the interests of the top of power, it was precisely the unacceptable regime of protection of the political world, this violation of the principle of equivalency relating to its criminal treatment. There have also been shocks where we too voted for proposals from the New Democracy, such as the broadening of the powers and institutional rights of the Opposition to establish committees of inquiry where we could actually have convergences. Why, badly lies, ladies and gentlemen, where can we have the shocks? Whether it is technically, constitutional engineering, or those issues where social competition has found a final balance, that is, the issue of dealing with it has become over-ripe. In my opinion, this is the most important point of view of the honour of the political world, but I think - and I shall refer to it later - the great issue of the distinctiveness of roles of the State and of the Church. But our existing political differences have also emerged. It is understandable that we could not agree, ladies and gentlemen, with the constitutionalisation of neoliberalism which involves including in the Golden Rule on deficits. This actually makes Kenyan social policy impossible in times of crisis. It also makes sense for you, in the light of your views, to oppose our proposals on direct democracy and social rights. But I was really surprised that on issues that really exist in general consensus in European legal culture, you have stood up against. You did not, for example, vote in favour of the proposal to ban sex discrimination and sexual orientation. He ranks you in a peculiar position on Europe's political map in view of the new duplicate that is being formed. On other issues, political differences were reflected, in a way that your Chief had announced in some way. I'm telling you his statements on the legal dilemmas we're facing. On March 29, 2016, the President spoke to you about a 'true majority'. As the people really see it as ignorant and incapable of ending up in institutional decisions, it is clear that the institutional counterweights are only understood at elite level and not by the possibility of direct democracy, by the 'vita activa', for which Hannah Arendt wrote. On December 2, 2017, the President told you that the separation of rich and poor is artificial. And on September 16, 2017, I “do not have delusions about a society without inequality. This is contrary to human nature." It is obvious that this ideology expressed by your Chief responds to real, real economic interests. Because, you know, the Constitution is yes, but it does not abolish them. The opposite, of them, is shaped by the correlation of forces that have been captured in society and at the same time reshape them. This is why Aristovoulou Menesis said that "classical and generally socio-political competitions continue under the Constitution, which thus constitutes an important field for the exercise of"". And what does that mean for the Constitution? Yes, in the final analysis, he illustrates the will of the sovereigns - Menesis referred to the Crashman, “The cities that are the right ones, the status quo, are the interests of the rulers,” but there are also the struggles of the rulers who have their fingerprint in the Constitution. That is why the Constitution is not a neutral text. The Constitution is a glimpse in which social struggles are reflected with a particular social profile. We therefore want this revision to have a stigma, a progressive political sign. And what does that mean? It means that we must take a stand on the one hand on the crucial political problems, on the other, in the dilemma in which Europe is facing and responding by strengthening democracy, while at the same time rejecting nationalism and neoliberalism. It must also intervene remedially in the institutional injuries that have brought to the body of the Constitution and the legal order the period of the memorandums. Because yes, it is true that the Constitution did not bring the crisis, but it was one of its first victims. And there was indeed a paradigm during which our country had reduced its democratic sovereignty, where we were imposed on us rules which were contrary to the fundamental provisions of the Constitution, particularly to social rights, but also to aspects of the expression of our democratic popular sovereignty. So the first direction of the Constitution, where we want to intervene and strengthen it, is democratic. And that means full recovery of popular sovereignty at the parliamentary level, but also strengthening of the citizen through institutions of direct democracy, complementar and not competitive towards representative democracy, which will enable him first - first to be sovereign not only in four years, but every time his active intervention is needed. And, secondly, it must be more effective counterweight to the efforts made to overturn the democratic balance of the civil society. The second dimension we want to strengthen is the one concerning rights, the liberal and social nature of our Constitution. Because our Constitution is not only a rule of law, but it is also a social state and the democratic principle is complemented in harmony with these two fundamental principles of the constitution. What does that mean? It means that we should strengthen individual rights. Discrimination on grounds of sex and sexual orientation is a classic example of the need to strengthen protection not only against vulnerable groups, but also against crucial identity issues for our society. But above all, to strengthen individual and social rights. So, with our proposals, the regulatory nature, the regulatory density of social rights, their ability to conduct themselves, obviously with respect for the separation of powers and the need for the economic potential of the state to be taken into account, but without infringing the core of social rights, which is what? Their ability to restore a decent standard of living for all people. That is why we are proposing specific ways of guaranteeing this protection, through universal services to which all citizens will have equal access. It is the modern way, the European way, for the operation of the welfare state. There are some of our flagship proposals, among those that I have mentioned. The introduction of a mere analogy is one of them, precisely because it strengthens popular sovereignty by allowing the most reliable reflection of the will of the people in the composition of the House. It is precisely because we are interested in popular sovereignty being exercised effectively, that we complement these proposals with other proposals concerning, for example, the constructive vote of censure, the possibility of Parliament being able to show firm governments. And because we want to strengthen the democratic nature of politics as well. Because one of the dimensions of neoliberalism is his attempt to isolate large spheres of political decisions from the political dialogue. We are opposed to this trend. We don't want technocracy, but democracy. The technocrats must serve democracy, be its advisers. But they can't replace it. In fact, lies badly, under the pretext of technocracy, in reality, are the service of the interests of the few. Chomsky says somewhere: "The technocrat is the one who speaks loudly, expressing the interests of the powerful." That is why we have proposals concerning the Prime Minister's status, which must be a Member, and proposals relating to the strengthening of Members' authority and the protection of them from the professionalisation of their duties, regarding the number of terms of reference they may have. Of course, our proposals to restore the honour of the political world are also moving in this context, which is a gloomy wound to the credibility of our political system. Critical is the issue - I left it not as a less important one - of distinguishing roles of the States and of the Church. In the debate I referred to the positions of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs of the New Democracy during the 1975 debate when he raised it as a topical issue. I think that now we have reached that level of institutional maturity so that with full respect for the Church of Greece we can proceed to what the Gospel demands, the Caesar of Caesar, the God of God, but also to reflect on the Greek institutional reality the European political average. I would like to see the two minutes left for me to deal with an issue that has been raised by our committee - it is not a procedural matter - and it refers to the way in which the debate is to take place, namely, what we are going to discuss, and it is obviously linked to the way in which we decide. The first Review House - and I stress the 'first revision' - because it is right that Evangelos Venizelos rightly says that under the Constitution of 1975 they are both Bulgarians which are revised and the proposed and decided, due to the change in the majority which has taken place for the first time in Article 110, of the rotation between the first and the second - has the responsibility to determine the need to revise certain provisions. By definition, we need firstly, because we need to change a regulation and, secondly, in what direction it needs to be changed. Here again, your Chief, not your spokesmen, Mr New Democracy, said in February: although the Constitution wants consensus to be reached, and even lasting consensus in the first and second parliaments, it has proposed that the two largest parties should put together the proposals we want to revise, without any mention of the direction we want to change them and vote together - as if these proposals are the same quality - and the next House will find them. This is completely irresponsible, constitutionally foolish, i.e. meaningless, and would make the Revision a political game, bet. It's not what the editorial legislator wants. The editorial legislature - I repeat - two things in particular ensure in accordance with the procedure laid down: increased majorities and two Bulgarians, so that there are wider consensus, those which are reflected in a simple parliamentary majority of a hundred and fifty-one, duration in the voting time and interference of the electorate, so that it can give, to the extent that, of course, one votes against the Review, because - badly lies - the vote will be passed by the vote on the final result in the next Parliament. In any case, therefore, it cannot be completely unreasonable that the decision of the first parliament proposed, because both of these features which the Constitution wants are undone, nor is the direction in which the elector will be called upon to choose between the alternatives, nor will the length of consensus be ensured, since the political players, in the version of the New Democracy, will be completely free to say in the first parliament, but they will not say in the second one. But the New Democracy has arrived with a boredom - I will describe it and I think you will also justify that - this political game at the extremes, because during the voting procedure in committee it also voted in favour of a proposal with which it stated that it did not agree...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Catrugale, please, get shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u93	You are right, Mr President, I am in the last minute. Our proposal for the revision of Rule 32 concerning the election of the President of the Republic has had a specific reasoning that speaks of disconnecting the election from the dissolution of the House, in which we actually coincide with the New Democracy, but also a complement to the way in which the House is to be dismantled which is a continuous election, constant parliamentary election efforts and, if they fail, a direct election. The New Democracy has a very opposite logic, rather than going to the major, which is the direct election, to go to the lasson, a smaller parliamentary majority. This is a completely different proposal. In voting for our own, the New Democracy does not just think that this direction of the House will not bind the next one. It says something worse that cannot be said under the parliamentary regime, that its own opinion and its own vote do not even commit itself in the face of the next elections, since others will now vote and others will do the next day. This is not just a violation of Article 110, it is a degeneration of the political debate, because it is like the party of Officerial Opposition saying that by means of tricks it will promote the debate on the Revision of the Constitution. I would therefore like to call on all the parties in this House to show the responsibility which I think has been shown in general in the debate in committee and to have a review not of 'cut-off' but of what the place wants, democratic, liberal, social and rights review for the citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Let me clarify the following for the procedure: Members' speaking time will be seven minutes. In other words, we now leave the distinction that the members of the Revision Committee would have ten minutes and the rest of the five minutes or six. Since Parliament has decided on a single procedure, all the members of the committee will speak, i.e. the list will evolve as it was at the beginning - the members of the committee, the first cycle - but the time will be one, and that time will also be for the Members of Parliament as well, since they will speak in accordance with the procedure. That is the plenary decision. I say this to write this in the Minutes. They're changing the seats and they're...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u95	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students and two educational attendants from the 6th Municipal School of Ilioupoli. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I am also speaking again from a microphone - so that we do not have any problem, the possibility of the parliamentary groups, as we have said before, by concession, flexibly to declare additional speakers, ends with the end of Mr Tassoula's speech. I say this because the services owe nothing - you understand - to have at noon and in the afternoon to go names and so on, that is to say, a little bit of a sense. We have already written twenty-five colleagues, in addition, to know the economy of the debate, to do what we have to do together. Mr Tasoula, you have the floor as the rapporteur for the New Democracy Party, the Officerial Response.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, the process of constitutional revision is indeed Parliament's dominant process, with which not all Parliaments are subordinated precisely because of the strict nature of the Constitution and the revising inertia that exists between the revisions under Article 110. We are therefore in the sense of responsibility, if we take it, a gifted one, a lucky Parliament that has received us from fate and the responsibility to reorder the supreme law, the fundamental law of our state. You will allow me to reinstate the dilemma of this Review, not on the basis of the ideology put forward by the previous majority colleague, as well as on the basis of responsibility. The Constitution, of course, has ideological achievements and ideological projections and the proposals have an ideological content, but it is such a situation, the dismay, I should say, of the country, at this time when the constitutional review must be fully subjected to the need to leave the country from the crisis and to learn by reviewing the Constitution, so that our sufferings and weaknesses which the Constitution has had to help out of the crisis or its deterrent can be learned. On the contrary, in view of this fundamental difference in our proposals and proposals from the SYRIZA, the SYRIZA proposal shows a proposal which demonstrates that nothing has been forgotten and nothing has been learned from the previous crisis, which has, admittedly, led to some delay in the country in de facto bankruptcy. Because, you know, the question isn't why we went bankrupt. If we want to be honest with ourselves, above all, the question is why we are so late to go bankrupt! And now that we have learned and suffered all of this from bankruptcy, the proposal of SYRIZA colleagues to propose a 'happiness' Constitution, a constitution which, in the name of neologism of regulatory density, is verbally strengthening with aggressive definitions and contempt for existing and guaranteed rights, such as health, welfare, work and insurance, and, in fact, the crisis has taught us that social and individual rights - which are in Article 25, Article 22 - are supported by other constitutional provisions on social and individual rights, by constitutional provisions and parameters found in Chapter 6 of the Constitution, which relate to the country's fiscal substance and budgetary power. If we do not strengthen the constitutional provisions governing financial counter-reactions to social rights, then social rights will be like the decorated praetors and high people who have gone to welcome the barbarians to the square, who have not finally come, and the poet is asking about the praetor "why do they get precious bats today, with silver and hair, extraordinaryly carved". Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need precious clubs with silver and wool in the Constitution. We just need to note that since the country has collapsed budgetaryly or for budgetary reasons, the Constitution can and must protect the country from the collapse, not to be neoliberal, but to be social and to be able to protect social rights in health, work, insurance everywhere, a state of alkimo budgetaryly and not a state of paralysed and a state that is prone and portrayed to return to the perpetual fiscal practices of the past. This is the main difference in the proposals: A Constitution for Responsibility, with a broad and bold revision proposed by us, or a demagogy constitution, a working constitution for your election struggle and your post-election despair, to effectively prevent the revision, if you finally send anaemic proposals, which will give a thought to the next majority on whether it is worthwhile to carry out a revision of one, two, three articles or not to wait a little while and to make an extensive revision, which will include all the constitutional requests that will help the country develop out of crisis and remain mainly outside the crisis and which are in chapters with which the SYRIZA proposal has not dealt with, in other words, chapters, education, development, justice, the environment. The proposal of the New Democracy, therefore, without being "extremely carved with silver and minced" is landed and realistic and aims to improve the functionality of the three-seat state. The three-stop state is the state that legislates, we, the state that governs, the government, and the state that is judiciary, justice. And these three forms of state, its three functions, must, in the constitutional spheres which concern them, based on past experience, be improved, in order to have more effective administration, more rapid administration, and not control over its leadership, and to have better legitimisation procedures in this House, without the end of ever-increasingly urgent bills, the clandestineness and barrage of amendments. These improvements and these corrections which are found in the proposals of the New Democracy are exactly what is lacking in the Constitution. And of course, the New Democracy has no illusion that it is a magic constitution. No constitution, even what will include all the necessary changes in its provisions, can in itself lead the country forward if the majority chosen by the Greek people, who are sovereign, and the government does not address it with due respect. The New Democracy, therefore, has described this need to correct the three functions of the state, in particular, proposes: Ability to establish private universities under strict control of an independent high prestige authority and at the same time, recognition of self-sufficiency and upgrading of public universities. Proposing the upgrading of Article 16 of the Constitution, an fossil that ranks us, if so, in a sad start-up and solitary leadership worldwide, we have forgotten to say another one, also our proposal in Article 16: We propose the establishment of model school structures in each region, so that every region of the country can have a model school at all levels of compulsory education, where in the standards schools are run, tested, and protected the famous social mobility that we need, so that each Greek citizen can with the help of education and his own performance and talent to define and defeat his fate. Because society is not defined on the basis of how we were born, but on the basis of luck, effort, mind fertility and talent each one has. The state must support this. We are proposing to confer extensive responsibilities on local government agencies and own resources for the fulfilment of their objectives. We limit the reasons for the early dismantling of the House so that the elections are normally held every four years at regular intervals. The New Democracy shall ensure that another three-dimensional section is accomplished, in addition to the correction of the elements which form the three-state state. The other tripartite that we want to highlight and improve, through our proposals, is the tripartite of government stability through constitutional provisions, economic development and social solidarity. These three parameters form the tripartite part of our proposals concerning government stability, which I have described. We are abolishing the provision which provides for the early dismantling of Parliament by invoking, in abusively, a critical national issue in recent years. The House can only dismantle itself by decision of the majority and as an anti-institutor of this kind of self-determination, we propose that the House should go through such a term of office so as to complete the four-year term, including the time of Parliament's dissolution. At this point, to make the controversy, SYRIZA proposes to introduce simple proportional treatment, not only in the local government that we have seen how much it reacts to its legislative assurance, but also in the parliamentary elections. It suggests panoramic referendums, with the collection of signatures of five hundred thousand, one million, and also for Article 28 of the Constitution for International Conventions. It proposes a popular legislative initiative. It suggests things that may first and foremost seem flattering and direct-democratic about the participation of the people in the so-called power, but in fact, all these proposals - with the pioneering and signifi­cant of the proposal for a constitutional introduction of mere proportionality, contrary to our own proposals guaranteeing governmental stability - could give the right to every good thing to describe your proposal for Constitutional Review, that it is intended to change the title of the country's constitution by "Privacy of the President-in-Office" to "Privacy of the Constitutional Republic". I stress these dimensions of your proposals, unlike ours, to make it understandable to those who have the fate or the misfortune to watch the House that it is not just Article 32 or Article 16 that is very important. There are other articles in the New Democracy Constitution, which make up a set of bold, I repeat, and a broad proposal for revision, which covers fifty-nine articles. I am continuing, saying that we are proposing a safe tax environment, banning the retroactive imposition of any tax burden, recognition of the country's European perspective, safeguarding the conditions of free competition under the supervision of an independent authority, introducing conditions of development perspective and protecting the environmental balance in Article 24, which you effectively refuse to catch, upgrade, merit, impartiality and impartiality of public administration and equal opportunities for all citizens, recognition on the social side of our proposals of minimum guaranteed income as a minimum, less debt of social solidarity, not only, upgrade the level of independence of judiciary officers by cutting off the selection of leaderships of the Supreme Courts by the executive authority. It changes Article 90 revolutionarily with the renunciation of the power of the executive to choose the highest judges. We transfer this power to Parliament and not to the Conference of Presidents with the overwhelming majority of the government, but to another special committee, which also has a form of constraint on its choice, because it can choose with a limit the three oldest judges and not do 'drugs' in the yearbook, altering the evolution of the highest judges. We continue with measures to restore Parliament's function and introduce good legal certainty rules. Finally, we are proposing to simplify the reform process by maintaining the strict character of the Constitution. In other words, we propose that the so-called 'fifty-year review inactivity' should be interrupted and that it should apply only to the revised articles and not to those which we have not touched. I mean, the proposal tells us that, if article 5, 10, 20, 30 goes through to the next House, the next revision does not lure all the other articles that have not been passed, but the next revision will start immediately for all the articles that have not been revised, because the five years are concerned with what has changed. This proposal will ensure, in writing, a serious interpretation already in existence for Article 110 of the Constitution, which tells us that what I described as a review attempt also today, if Article 110 is to be interpreted at another glance. Mr Katrugalos tried to place himself on the contested and inappropriate - in my opinion, because this is a detailed matter - in the view that the House that we are, has a commitment to the House in its entirety to the full content of its proposal. It's bound to antenna. Both science and practice so far follow a completely different view. They take the view that the House proposed, we, see the need for revision. This will be voted on either by 151 or 181 and will be put to the judgement of the next Parliament. But be careful. You fail to say that it is not placed in the crisis of the next House automatically, it is placed in the crisis of the next Parliament after the elections have been held. This means that the sovereign people, as described in the Constitution, are familiar with the review proposals, are familiar with all the review proposals, and by choosing one or the other party, i.e. by setting the majority of the Parliament, the people are also placed in the review. In fact, the majority of the next Parliament, which has been designated by the people, is carrying out a review of the popular choice. Take note here of a contradiction you have in ignoring popular intervention in relation to the Review. I read from your proposal a contradiction you have, ignoring the popular mediation in the Review, while highlighting it in an impressive and impressive way to justify the introduction of a bar of referendums. You say "We are with democracy and not with aristocracy. We insist on defending it, even when we consider that the majority does not take the decisions that we want. Then why didn't you make a referendum, say, on the Prespecies Agreement? "This is why we propose, continue, to guarantee the right to referendum on a popular initiative, measures which bring people to the fore. This is how strong democracies are formed. When they trust and not when they fear the people's crisis.' So when the New Democracy trusts the people's crisis and proposes - not as a bet, but as a constitutional challenge to confirm the review proposal - the two parties that have each other's proposals to vote on each other's proposals, so that the people and not the aristocracy - the people who must trust him rather than be afraid of him in your proposal - can actually decide on the Review, you come and say that not only that is wicked, nor candles, but you say that this actually violates the Constitution and you are putting such an overly committed commitment in the Reform House, which only makes it to lower the role of the people. Mr President, in the Minutes, I am presenting a dance of scientific and judicial views of the constitutionalists: Chrysinogenos, Delis, Vlachopoulou, Botopoulos, Anthopoulos, Tsatsos, Menesis, Athanasios, former Minister of Justice, Areopagitis - Vice-President of the Ice Bay, a plenary decision of the Council of State. Such evidence shows that the Review House is not bound by the contents of the Review by the proposals of this House, of the proposed Parliament. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Tasoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have done nothing surprising, no "triple" and no "may" moves, as was described by voting for some of SYRIZA's articles in the Review Committee, but knowing that the plenary is dominating and ultimately not the Revision Committee. We, in essence, tried to do what we proposed to you in the overall picture, to vote on both proposals and to decide on the people. You refused. We have chosen some common proposals that are important, emblematic, such as the drastic reduction of the legal privileges of civil servants, the more flexible election of the administrations of the independent authorities or the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the challenge of elections. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the challenge of elections justifies it with a perfect argument, without, however, this perfect argument in 2014 affecting you. You say that the dismantling of this House is a leading moment in the functioning of the parliamentary culture and that it must be the subject of a political decision and not 'the parallel consequence of the failure of other procedures', i.e. the failure of other procedures. And you say this at a time when four years ago you used the presidential election and its side effect, to be government today and to make suggestions to change those through which you became government! Therefore, the New Democracy proposes a Constitution that is functional, with extensive and bold Review concerning both government stability and economic development and social solidarity. We reject every demagogy and populism of a so-called "magic" constitution. We are calling for a serious constitution, which will facilitate the country's exit from the crisis and the maintenance of the country outside the crisis. We are abducting and voting against the Constitution that you propose and which is a return to all the bad habits of the past. It is a constitution of verbal enrichment, but without this verbal enrichment being supported by budgetary support and the country's safeguard and without creating anything modernistic in relation to changes in education through private universities, the environment through the environmental balance and the state's contribution to environmental protection, development and justice. In all these areas you are absent. We ask, at least at the last minute, that you rethink and go together for a Constitution of Responsibility and not for a Constitution of so-called "happiness" with many introductorys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Marathon School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on Mr Loverdos, rapporteur for the Democratic Assent. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2016, I have supported SYRIZA's review in the neighbourhoods and alleys, that the Revision of the Constitution, in order not to be a citizen's freedom, must have a very sharp peak. The revision cannot be made today, socially and politically, with a proposition of its very existence. That's not good enough. I have said many times that the prestige of the Constitution can no longer draw it. The times have passed when the reason for the Constitution was self-evident. Today, in order to displace a proposal for the revision of the Charter of the Hellenic Republic, it must concern politically and socially controversial issues. Today alone, it would be the focus of the Review on the citizen with all his qualities, as a citizen who participates in the political life of the place, as a party to the dispute, as an economic subject, as a body of rights. I didn't hear you. The parties' open accounts with the electorate, scientific preferences, ideas, internal issues of our political system have been preferred. And so, as I said, and as it became reality, the procedures of the Constitutional Review Committee came under political and social disrepute conditions. Nobody got involved in the Review. There have been very few publications and these have only been for moments in the work of the committee, and these tensions have also been minimal, because the climate in general has been good. A second point which I would like to raise in introduction is that of the time of the work of the Review Committee, which was minimal. Its chairman, Mr. Paraskevi, may have been lenient with regard to our speeches, may have objectively directed the work of the committee, but in order to complete our work, tens of articles governing the most critical issues, such as delays in the administration's administration's administration's administration's delay, maniac changes in tax laws, and so on. Instead of separating issues into modules, they got fucked. However, issues relating to the daily lives of citizens in its critical areas have been fucked, and so our penetration into problems and the search for solutions has not been the right one. It was basically epidermal. As the general rapporteur for the Democratic Independence, I have moved as part of the positions of principle I have just mentioned in this context, and I will plunder our positions here today in the National Representation. Before entering into our proposals, however, I would like to make a reference to our position during the vote. Indeed, from the first moment we have made it clear that it is impossible with our vote to make the next Parliament, that is to say, the reformist parliament, a constitutional subordinate of the party that will win the elections. No provision - that is our position - should be included in the proposals for revision equipped with an eighty-eight votes. No provision should be reviewed with this power in the Proposed House and in the next review that the majority of fifty-one votes should be enough. I addressed, above all, to the SYRIZA MPs and told them to think twice, because yes they tried to revise the Constitution to include it in their tools as supposedly an attempt to make institutional change by a party that knows exactly what is happening, is aware and suggests changes in the crucials. Now you're trapped. You are trapped in the process of voting together with New Democracy on the change of Rule 32, so that in the next Parliament, pursuant to Rule 110, in its first session, i.e. the first weeks of the new Parliament, you will review the Constitution, whenever you vote, to prevent the revision of Article 32 before the election of the President of the Republic in 2020. You're trapped. I have been saying since the first day - and my speeches are recorded in the Minutes - that this issue of the procedure should be approached, but arrogance does not allow for consultation. The arrogance imposes behaviors that eventually lead to defeats and is a defeat to which you are rushing, running as fast as you can. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not have fifty Members to put forward our own proposals. Our MPs are twenty. That is why we have made proposals, but we are obliged, since they do not have the official nature of the revision proposals, to make choices from the proposals put forward by others. However, I repeat what we have said, namely that we will be speaking with a Member. We will not help the next House the party majority on its own do what it wants. What should be changed in the Constitution? I would refer to what I said in detail as the rapporteur-general in committee, Mr Venizelos's speeches, Mr Papatheodoros, who were the three who participated in the committee. First section. We have considered that the first issue concerning the price of the political world, Article 86, as well as Article 62, needs to be discussed. For the change of Article 62 we propose maintaining the impunity, but in reverse. It is invoked by the Member. He does not have it by definition. And in relation to Rule 86, I must remind you of the initiative we took in 2006 by myself, Mr Kosmidis, on the part of PASOK, with Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, then MP of co-population and eight other Members of the New Democracy, to revise Article 86 of the Constitution. There was no response from others and of course neither from the then COORDINATION. Mr Tsipras tried to contradict this argument with the force of numbers. "When many didn't want it, what are you looking at us?" Yes, but I have to note, beyond this proposal that was incomplete, what else did we, as PASOK, do, as a PASOK then, as a way of assimilating the criminal treatment of politicians with the rest of the citizens. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, with Mr von Wogau. We abolished the specific ministerial offences provided for by Decree-Law 802 of 1971, which was the most serious intervention so far to defend the principle of equality of citizens. Secondly, with the 2001 review, we extended Parliament's damping deadline by one summit, that is by one to three years. Thirdly, we have foreseen further legalisation of the institution with the Constitution, but also with Law 3126/2003. And fourthly, we anticipated, the Advisory Council by two prosecutors and judges of the Ice Bay to assist the House with Law 3361/2011. These were all PASOK governments' interventions. We are now proposing the revision of Rule 86 on account of knowledge, but while the SYRIZA's present majority-majority is progressing unreasonably and on the other hand, prosecuting political opponents is working on it. They will balance, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, for you things in your mind and practice after the elections. So far, as a majority, your practices have been explained why Article 86 has been introduced in the past and why Article 86 must not be changed. We are, however, firmly in favour of the change in Article 86. It is enough, ladies and gentlemen, to point out that, on the basis of these provisions, so far, 15 Prime Ministers have been accused, of whom the most serious who have been through this place, such as Eleftherios Venizelos, like Andreas Papandreou, such as Costas Simitis, have recently been daring some - like many others. Second section on election of the President of the Republic. Those who propose the direct election of the President suggest an anti-democratic regression. The parliamentary system, ladies and gentlemen, was rationalized in order to have stability, because especially during the Middle War, the governments were sitting in power two and three days, two and three weeks, two and three months, and the countries needed stability. The rationalisation has also resulted in a semi-official name for the parliamentary system: a rationalized parliamentary system. It emerged from the restriction of mere analogy, from the removal of the elected head of state, king or president of democracy, the hereditary relates to the President, both as regards the king and the president from the dismissal of political responsibilities. Those who are proposing a direct election today are proposing to reintroduce the division. Dividing, however, is the convenience for some in difficulty, in order to obtain election benefits. Immediate election - we have to understand that - equips the President of the Republic with excessive political power, even if he has no competence. The power given to him by direct elections makes him first in terms of power in the hierarchy of executive bodies and that leads the country to a political crisis. These political crises are becoming state-run. We say no, then, in the direct election. Yes, in a reasoned increase in its responsibilities, it can give public political speech through non-signatured diplomas and yes, after a relevant sui generis objection of constitutionality can be referred back to draft laws. In the referendums on the application of Article 28 we say 'no'. Let me read to you, ladies and gentlemen, by reminding you, the question put to the Greek people in July 2015 in the distorted referendum. The question was: ‘Is the draft agreement to be accepted, tabled by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund at Eurogroup of 25 June 2015 and composed of two parties, which constitute their single proposal?’ The first document is entitled 'Reforms for the Collection of the Current Programme and Beyond' (Reforms for the completion of the current programme and beyond). The second text shall be entitled ‘Preliminary Debt sustainability analys’. There is no need for any more words about referendums. SYRIZA's proposal must be rejected without words. Third section. Relationship of State - Church. We proposed the adoption of a proposal by Evangelos Venizelos years ago to add to Article 3 of our Constitution an interpretative statement providing that the proclamation of our official religion as a predominant does not produce discrimination. That was finally SYRIZA's proposal. SYRIZA came to this by abandoning the chatter about the separation of State and Church. And be careful, he artificially omitted to propose the revision of Article 16 paragraph. In this context, I should like to point out that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection believes that the Commission should be involved in this process. What was misinterpreted in a wrong scientific way as a teaching based on the dogmas of official religion, likes SYRIZA to remain. Hypocrisy has no limit in this respect. Fourth section on rights. We say: yes to the revision of Article 16 paragraph. 5 on the establishment of non-governmental, non-profit universities. Yes to the provision of minimum guaranteed income and collective bargaining. Yes to the addition of Article 5 paragraph. I would also like to point out that, in the light of the above considerations, it is important that the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission should be involved in the work of the European Parliament and the Council, and in the context of the work of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, as well as in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and Immunities, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the Yes to the provision of an oath or assurance before taking up duties of Ministers, MPs, President of the Republic. Module 5. The citizen's relationship with politics must be upgraded and a solution is not either the referendums - I said about them - nor the direct election of the President of the Republic - I spoke about it. We propose the personal presence of the citizens in the petitions they make in the House, the setting up of committees of inquiry and the right of Minority, the change in laws relating to large investments only with an increased majority in Parliament and, finally, a stable political cycle at last. Because it is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that the stable economic cycle requires a stable political cycle. Sixth section, which concerns the citizen as a party to the dispute and as governor, that is to say, administration and justice. Fellow Members of the majority, our disappointment here in your proposals is also the big issue of our refusal to accept your body and reasoning. Here is why: because the problem facing the Greek citizen today is bureaucracy, whether bureaucracy is produced by the functioning of the administration, or bureaucracy is produced by the organization and administration of justice and not by its decisions. This section has thirty-six articles, including the article on Revision of the Constitution. Not only did we infiltrate them, but you did not propose anything for justice. It's like everything's going well in her organization, not in her award. We proposed that time-limits should be introduced for the adoption of administrative acts, that the administration should not steal the time of the governor by replying: "In six months, in one year, in two years", while the legislator says: "In thirty days" and the time-limit of the legislature is taken by the courts and the administration, as an indication. We need to establish exclusive deadlines. Quiet. To establish the possibility of external assistant judges being recruited. Silence of fish and of it. To establish, as a principle of justice, its swift functioning. Silence in that, too. To table proposals for laws by local government agencies. Silence in that, too. Checking the constitutionality of laws directly, without trial - pilot, without prior trial, in the fullhearted courts, to earn time, years. Silence in that, too. To abolish the Penitentiary, finally, and further upgrade our judiciary. Look, ladies and gentlemen, quieting about this means that it does not see what the world says, it does not see what the Greek citizen is suffering, it does not see what the party is suffering from, from what the commander is suffering. You did not have a word to say about these, a field you bought, all that time you were supposed to have dialogue with the citizens. What did the people tell you? That the pain took them on secondary issues of the political system? Didn't they tell you that the administration hurts them? If you had a dialogue that I don't see, you'd probably be told as a theme first. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end with two issues relating to our work from now on. Mr Katrugalos' suggestion, which had a number of elements which could be discussed - and in committee we voted together - had an end to this, which we are completely opposed to. He was talking about a progressive review. I do not want to insult this with the words I have in me, but I want, to understand how I think and how we think, to tell you that this text, which most Members have to talk about, is the basis of the political conflict, is the rule of our political conflict. Woe, if not consensually adopted, alas if you understand as a typical theme the hundreds of eighty that the Constitution requires. The revisions are not socialist, they are not neoliberal, they are not progressive or reactionary, they are dangerous, because I have a word here that I do not want to tell you, but it arises from the previous adjectives I have used. Let's go, for a consensual review that will help, we don't go for other wicked things in this process. Finally, at 16.00 a.m. we will hold a meeting of the general rapporteurs of the parties on how to vote tomorrow, of the guidelines, how to streamline it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u100	The vote will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u101	Yeah, but I'm saying there's going to be a meeting at 16:00. We will say a lot and when the debate on this debate begins on its own tomorrow, as the President has fortunately accepted, there will be many arguments, most of which are based on Article 110 of the Constitution, for which we also propose revision times between one and the other not to be five years, to be somewhere near. They don't need five years. Article 110, however, is what governs the concerns about how to vote. But listen to a political argument - I am addressing politicians and I think I am going to be understood - the Constitution is proposed by this proposed parliament to be reviewed at its last summit, shortly before the elections, with a registered, as we believe, a disharmony between the political choices of the people in 2015 and today. That makes sense too. You are at the end, you of the majority - minority, the mandate you received in 2015. Therefore, your legitimacy, not typically but essentially, is much less limited. The next House, which is the most revisionative, is revising at its first summit, namely, immediately, with fresh, strong, democratic legitimacy. Will you impose on the next House today what will it vote on? We propose here that we do not impose on the next House what it will do, because if you try to think as an exception, because all the previous revisions were made in the constitutional way, firstly, you will have introduced an anti-democratic exception and secondly, it will have no meaning, because the next Parliament will take over the Review. And if nothing else, ladies and gentlemen, and with that I am closing down, do not think the picture of today's parliament is tomorrow's. 40% of the members of the National Representation - you, us, me - 40% of us will not be in the next House. From this point of view and from the political point of view, which concerns democratic legitimacy, but also from Article 110 of the Constitution, the conclusion produced is contrary to what you are trying to establish today in anti-democratic terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and three fellow professors from the 5th General High School of Ilioupoli (second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Pappas has the floor on behalf of the People's League - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is a crystallisation of the historical political context which requires its revision. Therefore, this Review will record the historic moment of the rot and decline of Greek political life. Although the Constitution is considered to be the supreme law of the State, since all other legislation governing social life derives from it, it is nothing more than a record of a country's political and social and economic forces as recorded in the Charter. These forces, when they are not the product of revolutionary creation of the Constitution, to record in a majority way, are often called into question or lead to illegitimate constitutions which, although legally strong, live a little and are overthrown. The role of a constitution, not in the past, but today, is not a panacea. The constitutions, in the present sense, are human creations of the political context in question, which are subject to dismantling or briefings or less briefly through which the people come out, the only legitimisation that empowers the leader, who is deemed worthy of history, to express the strong will of the people and of his nation. Our story is rich in such constitutions. Although there were many regional or local constitutions, the first national-wide constitution, however, which established Greek society as a necessary criterion for political legitimacy, was Greece's provisional constitution that was passed at the First National Assembly in 1822 and included a hundred short paragraphs. The Constitution of Epidaurus, known as being revised in 1823 by the Second National Assembly, known as "The Law of Epidaurus", to follow in 1827 the Third National Assembly "The Political Constitution of Greece" in Troisena. But the leader - and if the Greek people listened to this - who suspended the operation of this last Troizina constitution directly invoked the difficulties that this charter had put into his work and proposed that it should be abolished in 1828, a year immediately after it was established, he was the greatest Greek governor, the greatest Greek politician in modern history, Ioannis Kapodistrias. Kapodistrias founded the "Panellenon" and later the "Germany", i.e. two advisory bodies which he used to ratify the decisions he took. In fact the Kapodistrias gathered all power in his hands. He gathered it without ever being regarded by any historian as a dictator. And why wasn't the Capodist dictator, who was Greece's biggest reformer, notwithstanding abolishing a recent constitution of '27, even though he suspended the functions of the Parliament and proceeded only to the necessary areas? The answer to this question, if it is honest and historically accurate, gives you the size of the value of a text if it does not express the will of the people, that is, if the people do not legalise their adoption. Here, then, we see the relevance of the concept of the constitution and regardless of the formal procedure and the formal legitimacy it can have from a majority voter if it does not have popular legitimacy, it is very easily abolished without even having to apply revolutionary law. With such a Constitution, we have to do with this tragic political period for our country. In fact, we are dealing with a review before which every sense of legality has been violated, with a constitutional review that follows the vote for memorandums with non-existent majorities, with a hundred and fifty one instead of a hundred eighty, or with a Constitutional Review followed by the assignment of the country's sovereign rights, as happened in the name of our Macedonia. In these circumstances, the revision tabled by the government, which has absolutely no legitimacy, unfortunately makes the Constitution - let me be allowed to express it - 'bark paper', as in other times our multi-pathy country has done to get to know results which are not expressed either by the majority of its citizens or by the destiny of the nation, as every charter must express. In any case, the way in which the government is treated and this Review is indicative of the periphery you in the Constitution, it is part of your micro-participatory logic, it is part of your micro-participatory benefit. Instead of moving on to a review that has substance, you prefer to satisfy your party audience. In particular, the debate on the current Article 110 of the Constitution, paragraph 2 and paragraph 4, that is to say whether it is sufficient to vote for the provisions being revised by a hundred and fifty-one or by eighty-eight Members, is absolutely irrelevant to you. You are abolishing the Constitution you might want to revise, knowing, of course, that the parliament that will be in the next elections will not enable you to pass by the required majority of eighty Members who need the "sections" you want. However, you SYRIZA, hypocritically, do not confess to the people, but you will let it be understood and you will say about micro-party benefits in the future "we have made our debt as a left-wing party". It is therefore the ultimate hypocrisy for you both of the SYRIZA Government and of you in the New Democracy that you have just remembered that the Constitution and the number of one hundred eighty or three fifths of Parliament exist. Last betrayal, for all of you, and government and SYRIZA and New Democracy, while with the arithmetic arithmetic you could prevent things, you agreed to pass all the memorials by a hundred hundred and fifty-one Members, that is to say, commit the country for ninety-nine years, you agreed to assign our Macedonia with a hundred fifty-one, even its admission to NATO with a hundred fifty-one, which is an international treaty under the Constitution and the number of eighty-eight. Mr President, I will concentrate on the most critical articles to be revisited, as the special rapporteur and member of the Committee on Revision of the Constitution, our Member, Mr Karakostas, will also be given the opportunity to have a further place on all of the articles. I shall begin with Article 3, the very critical of us Article 3, and I have the following point: From the comparison, even from the grammar of the two wordings for the review referred to in Article 3, there are differences that if unawares seem insignificant, in practice they are very important. This is the first time that the concept of religiously neutral state has been found in a Greek constitutional text from the beginning of the Greek state. This notion exists only in the constitution of the United States, but also in the most important churches of their organization as legal persons governed by public law and does not exist in the French system by which the government is flirting and which does not state that orientation is in the French system. Even with the completion of the review debate and just before the vote the wrong system, which you of the Government invoke in relation to Article 3, has no precedent. It would be good, therefore, to make known to the teenists of the separation between the State and the Church what the migrating constitutionalist Dimitrios Chatsos says. Tsatsos wrote: "The liberal state adopts the absolute separation from the Church." The liberal! He supplements in his work "Constitutional Law" in the second volume, page 585: "The absolute separation does not always ensure either state neutrality or subsequent religious freedom. In this respect, legal and practical inadequacies can be demonstrated. Both the religious neutrality of the state and religious freedom are not achieved by a solid separation of State and Church." Therefore, the only left is not the choice of separation of State and Church. It is an extremist liberal choice, even though you have dealt with the issue, with half the hypocrisy in the New Democracy's report, and not clearly. They are the same positions that govern the liberal New Democracy, the false right of us New Democracy in the left. SYRIZA component, New Democracy. So her plan - in introductory words, since there is no such word - 'neutrality' even if it could in theory be supported, has no impact. It does not even stand up to the United States, because it exists, we could say, one - in introductory - 'democratic religion', Christianity. Whilst Christianity is being put there by the forces of ethnicism, the Christian calendar, the feast is being followed in all public state events, Christmas celebrations, Thanksgiving Day, and so forth. Therefore, the left-wing replicators of foreign systems, who do not even know how to copy well, must clarify to what extent they refer to the neutrality of the state's religion or the exercise of individual rights of citizens. If this is the second, namely the citizens' religious rights, there is no problem. There is Article 13 of the Constitution, which is not for review and which defines freedom of religion very well and freely. And it doesn't affect anyone. If this is the first, namely the separation of Church and State, which is most likely, they must tell us on the basis of which constitutional model which country they wish to walk the Revision? They want to create and follow the model of Enver Hoxha, Albania, of atheism, which they praised in their youths? Or do they want to follow George Soros' model, which they sing in their last? So no government today has bothered to explain to us practically what this neutrality means. So what neutrality will that be? The Muslim can swear in the Koran, while the Christian cannot swear in the sacred Gospel? In Article 3, the revised by SYRIZA, the report that the self-headed Church is commanded by the Holy Synod of the active High Priests and by the Sacred Sacred Synod is deleted. What, then, is the conclusion? What is the conclusion on the abolition of our accompanying system, which applies to Orthodoxy and which does not depend on the form of the Constitution? Does it mean that the hierarchy of the Church, as expressed by the present, the willing leadership of the Church, will not participate in decisions through the Metropolitan Synod, but will it be replaced by the Archbishop in question, turning our syndicate system into a papal? Where, then, these unscrupulous logics and changes can lead to this with the hidden Tsipras - Jeronym initiatives and their announced intention not to grant approval to the attempt to depreciate the lower clerus. I will finish my reference to the critical, for us, Article 3-critical for the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, who are Greek Orthodox Christians - saying that it is deleted from the Constitution, as you suggest, that the Head of our Orthodox Church is the sacred face of Jesus Christ. You want a religion without goddess, which you believe to be opportune, if you like, which you historically believe - has been proven - Kumunism. Two hundred and a half years our constitutional texts began with "In the name of Agia and Omoousi and Indivisible Trinity". This should start every charter of Orthodox Greece. As far as the privileges and immunities of Members are concerned, the Golden Dawn has firmly expressed its position, that these must be abolished, that there is a scandalous treatment of the Members' privileges vis-à-vis the rest of the people, as if the MPs were something different from the people, as if we were above the people. The only duty of Members is to express the wishes and thoughts of Members in this Chamber with responsibility. So the abolition of parliamentary prerogatives is a constant position. Also, a very important point is to do with Article 28: the standing position of the Golden Dawn - it is very important, very critical - that any provision restricts our national sovereignty is a provision that is unacceptable and incomprehensible. We are all opposed to the existence of Article 28. This is a serious constitutional, but also a state-of-the-art slip, but it is a declaratory of your intentions to submit to the idea of 'European integration'. With regard to your political games for disconnecting the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament with the combination of direct and indirect election, as proposed by the revision of Rule 32, proposed by both SYRIZA and New Democracy, and we will see if it is to be voted on by both, political games together with SYRIZA and New Democracy: We state that the only one who must have reason to speak about the election of the President and the President to truly express all Greeks is the Greek people. The President of the Republic must be elected by universal suffrage by the Greek people. And another very crucial thing: in the proposed provision for reviewing Article 44 and in what this provides for referenda, the People's Association proposes: Possibility of a referendum on a serious national issue must have all the institutions of the Constitution, namely the President of the Republic, as defined by the 1975 Constitution, and the Government, as defined by the current Constitution, and the parliament with at least one hundred and twenty members, and the citizens with a particular number of citizens and signatures. However, there must be an insurance policy, which could not be clarified by the work of the committee. Also a very crucial issue is the vote of the homogeneous Greek citizens who are outside the Empire. And when the Golden Dawn speaks of homogeneous ones, it does not only speak of people of the first, second, third generation, who were on the four ends of the world for biopolitics. It also means the Greeks of the barren homes. He also means the Greeks of occupied homes. These, then, for us Chrysangiites - we have stressed it since 2012 when we entered the Greek Parliament - must have the right to vote. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying this in relation to the Review: For us, the Review was a pretext for micro-participation on the part of SYRIZA, but also of the New Democracy, without any substantial, real, political and adequate procedure. You have put up with the essential debate that could have been done correctly. And you mocked her with your well-known ideas, condemning any change proposed by another party and specifically by the Golden Dawn. And that's how you demolished the Review. You degraded it to a micro-party procedure level. You do not, of course, have a majority. You do not have the hundreds of eighty that are required to pass through the provisions. You have proved yourself to be smaller than anticipation, not only the Left, but also the False Right Liberals, both in the small issues and in the big issues. And it's lenient what I'm going to say: You proved to be very small. And history will record you as very small. What I'm saying is diligent. But what the Greek people, who are boiling Greek people, are not eulogetic, Mr President. And they won't be diligent. And it will appear in both the forthcoming European elections and the parliamentary elections, whenever they are. And he will punish the two major parties, the two co-operating major parties, which appear to be co-operating, who are commonly following the tactic to call Skopje "North Macedonia". Katovan the Elder began his speech by saying the famous: "Carthago delenda est", that is to say, it must be abolished, Karchedonna must be levelled. We will close our talks with "Macedonia is one and it is Greek".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u104	Mr Pappa, I am sorry to see that in your report to the Committee on Constitutional Revision, it is good for you to clarify it as well. In what you said, you are also planning an article on sanitary and occupied homelands, etc.Huh? Because you put something that was not in your report to the Committee on Constitutional Revision. You can understand that this is a very delicate matter. Referring to the expatriates, you said you were referring to those who are in occupied homes, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u105	I think that plenary also has a greater authority as a body of the Greek Parliament than a committee has. We're putting it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u106	You raise a question of autism, that is, by way of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u107	There are free country houses, Mr President. It's the North Continent, it's Ionia...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u108	We're not up against it. I asked you to know exactly what your proposal was.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u109	...is our occupied northern part of Cyprus. We consider these to be Greece. Whether it passes or doesn't pass, it for us is Greece, the real Greece of our dreams. That's what we're fighting for!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u110	I wanted it made clear in public, you understood it. That is why we have had this debate, because it is a very delicate matter. Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Gioka very much from the JRC to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u111	When the Constitutional Review was launched on the initiative of the government, it was advertised as a progressive, democratic initiative, an initiative with a progressive figure that would allegedly bring an incision to the Constitution. However, those who have studied the proposals of the SYRIZA Government and the other parties or those who do so even now, those who have attended the meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Revision, those who see the substance and reality behind the magnifications, would find that this is not only the case, but, in fact, we are talking about a Review that, like the previous ones, aims to serve a series of modern needs of the urban political system in order, on the one hand, not to disturb the exercise of the dominant anti-grassroots policy and, on the other, to restore the prestige of the civil system rotting in the people's conscience and to hide the deep sepsis that it is emerging on every occasion. Of course, we do not overlook the fact that there are other kinds of purposes, pre-election and communication, to stimulate the ballistic bipolar fight between SYRIZA and New Democracy, and to hide their big shocks. Convergences concerning the economy, anti-grass laws, memoranda, convergences concerning foreign policy, the European Union, NATO, but convergences concerning the Constitutional Review. Because if you look carefully at the proposals of the SYRIZA and the New Democracy, the other parties, you will find that despite their individual differences, despite their agreement or not in most of the articles, there is a common denominator. There is a thread, a thread linking these proposals, distinct common objectives and joint declarations. What are these objectives? And it was said before and by the representative of SYRIZA and the representative of the New Democracy. First, government political stability. Government policy continuity, so that the sovereign policy is not disturbed by a number of factors, including the popular factor and the pressure that the people can exert and have the right to exercise towards the governments concerned. This is what you are trying, for example, to achieve with your joint practical proposal on the revision of Rule 32 and the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the election, despite one saying election by the people and the other saying election by a hundred and fifty one, if the procedure in this House is fruitless with more increased majority voting. And despite the fact that SYRIZA in 2014 said - and logically it was from his side - that there is no problem that presidential election should be used to get a government doomed to the conscious majority. That's what you said then. Mr Katrugalos even then said that even God would propose for President of the Republic, we are not going to vote for him. Another thing, of course, that this 2015 government change, not only discredited the expectations of this popular majority, but also continued the policy from where the previous ones stopped it. Now you're going to go for this article 32 proposal. Government stability, which for the people means instability, is also trying to achieve it with other proposals, such as the New Democracy's proposal on the constitutionally guaranteed four-year parliamentary mandates or the SYRIZA proposal on the constructive motion for distrust and its rejection if there is no agreement on new Prime Minister, which actually leads to a result: proposals of distrust that are voted in favour of not leading to a fall of the government and early elections, but either to continue a government that has lost the majority, or to seek partnerships for new figures without elections. And the impressive thing is that this reactionary shape, this reactionary proposal, you show it as an example of progress and democracy. What do you want to solve both of us and of them? You want to make a series of necessary adjustments to the way in which the urban state and its governments operate, taking into account that the present political correlation does not allow for the creation of stable mono-party governments in the way that has happened in the past. Hence your anxiety about government stability, hence your coincidence in this part, especially as far as the President of the Republic is concerned, even if there is no media coincidence, there is in any case a coincidence in terms of the objective pursued. The second objective of the Constitutional Review, too, is common. The so-called morality, the honor of the political system. To restore the prestige of the urban political system in the eyes of the people, a prestige which has been shaken and justified by the crisis, the measures, the inconsistency of words and works, to say that I am not cutting pensions and cutting them, but which is a prestigious one because of the recent phenomena, the messengers, the transactions and the transcripts to which you have committed all parties. And this effort goes hand-in-hand with a disorientative theory that emerged during the years of the crisis with SYRIZA, according to which theory of the manifestation of the capitalist crisis was the result of the way of operation and the morality of the political system. Therefore, if this mode of operation is changed, the crisis will be tackled or there will be greater opportunities for solving the popular problems. A theory that actually acquits the system, the market, the competition, with which the mischess, the takeover, the involvement with the civilian staff and all it does is throw water into the mill and the demagogy of reactionary and fascist forces. In this context of the so-called moralisation of the political system, the proposal for Article 86 and the Law on the liability of Ministers, which, while the people's demand - we recall - was that the law was completely abolished, with your proposals, and with SYRIZA and the New Democracy, this law is not abolished, but remains, even with certain improvements, such as the abolition of the reduced limitation or the interpretative declaration, so that certain offences are directly subject to justice. What is maintained by Article 86? It maintains its core, according to which the decision to set up a pre-examination committee for the purpose of revocation of the criminal prosecution will again be taken by the parliamentary majority. As will also be done by a special court and not of course regular justice, as is the case for all citizens. Also, a number of offences such as, for example, infidelity, misuse of power will continue to be within the competence of the parliamentary majority and the various political games that we have seen from time to time be played. We are making it clear that we will be voting for the revision of Rule 86, only because we want to promote the change of this disgusting provision, but without considering that the proposals that solve the problem and now also claim, but also in the next House, either there is a total abolition of this article or, at least, there is no need to prosecute a preliminary examination, etc., by the decision of the parliamentary majority. The third objective of this Review was, of course, to build up a polluting convenient confrontation between SYRIZA and New Democracy, in order to hide their strategic matching to the major and critical issues relating to the life of the people: SYRIZA to highlight the false neoliberal agenda, contrary to the extremes of the New Democracy, but also to the anti-grassroots policy implemented by itself in practice and which incorporates these extreme positions, and the New Democracy, with mainly the revision of Article 16, in order to show SYRIZA that it is supposedly an enemy of the market, of entrepreneurship, when everyone recognises, from the Com munity to the OECD, that SYRIZA has proved itself and very flexible and very effective to implement anti-gravity policies and to go through measures that have not been able or taken by the governments of the New Democracy and the PASC. This heartfelt controversy was particularly manifested in the part of individual and social rights, but also in some other articles of the Constitution. And it makes sense, because in this very part of the Constitution, individual and social rights, the great dimension is reflected, the great distance between the verbal proclamations and references that may exist in an urban constitution and what is happening in everyday life and real life. Because today there are provisions in the Constitution on the right to work, the residence and the strike. These reports, however, have not prevented unemployment from rising over these years, people's housing to be taxed and confiscated or strikes to come out at nineteenths illegal and abusive. Why is that so? Because recognition of these rights becomes an 'empty shirt', where at the same time there is a set of clauses, 'bricks', exceptions, implementing laws - is the reference made to the Constitution 'unless it defines otherwise' - which effectively circumvent these rights, in order to protect the supreme law, the capitalist property in the means of production, the exploitation of relations, the political stability of the capitalist system. This supreme law appears in the Constitution when as a public interest, when as a public security, when as a public order and national security, when as something else. Apart from these various clauses and exceptions that exist in the Constitution and which in practice restrict these rights, there is another one. There is one more constitutionalised, even with previous revisions, of the Trojan Horse at the expense of whatever rights and rights are recognised in the Constitution. Who's that? Recognizing the supremacy of the law of the European Union with Articles 28 and 80 and the respective interpretative statements, which required any interpretation of the Constitution to be made in the light of our country's participation in the Euro-Union structure, the European Union and EMU. If you see in recent years, there is no social, individual, democratic right not to be undermined, not to have been hit by the profound reactionary and anti-grassant law produced by Brussels's staff, by the working and insurance rights that have been targeted at the various white and green papers, by the memoranda, up to the people's democratic freedoms of course. That was, is and will continue to be the anti-Fraud European regularity that Mr Katrugalos has mentioned and which has nothing to do with rights and freedoms, which are now allegedly threatened, as in all previous years the European Union has been a protector and guarantor of popular rights and freedoms. That is why we say that this controversy, and there are too many examples from the process of the particular Constitutional Review, which confirm this. For example, the New Democracy has proposed introducing a provision in the Constitution to guarantee the country's Euro-Union orientation. Is SYRIZA implementing something different from that? The New Democracy has proposed to enter the Constitution a provision on budgetary discipline that was and is in line with what SYRIZA says. Is SYRIZA implementing something different from that? Does it not implement the policy of pro-supported surpluses? In fact, not only do you exercise this policy, but also exercise positive decisions in favour of workers, viewing as constitutional the cuts in gifts and allowances made by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, in the name of public interests and budgetary discipline and stability, or as a constitutionality, the barbarity of the abolition of Sunday holidays for workers. That is why we are not talking about real controversy here. We are talking about a confrontation that we could describe on the one hand as a constitutionalised neoliberalism of the New Democracy, on the other hand as applied neoliberalism of SYRIZA, no matter how much the term 'neo-liberalism' is not a cadet, because we are talking about the urban anti-grass strategy. However, even some of the SYRIZA proposals are not as innocent as they appear or as they appear. For example, in your proposal for social security, the term "efficiency" which has been the state-run ram over all these years to dismantle any social character that has remained in insurance is constitutionally introduced in the wording of the term "efficiency". It is also characteristic, both in SYRIZA's proposals and in the New Democracy's proposals, that the reasoning of extreme poverty, the minimum level of living, a guaranteed income which will only have an obligation to secure the state from there and beyond, is that the life-saving self-saving one. The same is true of the proposal that is being made to be just the distribution networks for water and energy under public control, not to put an end to the course of privatisation and liberalisation, which is, of course, progressing rapidly, but to ensure that public control in the networks is the braker of this process. Other articles show this hypocrisy. Take, for example, the article you are proposing for popular referendums and direct democracy, as you say. What do you suggest? You are proposing a referendum on a national or social issue, not on budgetary matters, which is 90% of the anti-grassroots measures, after five hundred thousand and one million votes have been gathered, without the result of the referendum being binding and with the possibility that the parliamentary majority may prevent this referendum from taking place. In fact, we are talking about press 2015 referendums, "Korea I win, you lose letters". You are also talking about the popular legislative initiative, which is our own proposal. But what was your practice? Proposal for a law tabled in Parliament by 513 trade union organisations - representing thousands of workers - you to hold it for two years in the Ministry's drawers and not to bring it to the House for discussion. This is your sensitivity to legislative initiatives on the part of the people! The fact that we are not talking about a progressive, but about another reactionary review does not only seem to be one of the main proposals put forward by both SYRIZA and the New Democracy. It looks like the ones you rejected, especially SYRIZA. These are proposals that we have tabled in this process, to protect and broaden popular democratic rights, the trade unions, the sovereign rights of the country, without, of course, being illusory that there can be a progressive or democratic Constitution within the framework of the current power of capital. Such examples are our proposals for the revision of Articles 27 and 28, allowing restrictions on the exercise of sovereign rights and their assignment to foreign centres. Article 27(2) allows foreign troops to pass through our country and we ask for a change. We were also proposing to add a paragraph to Article 27 that would not allow nuclear and chemical weapons to be acquired and maintained in our country. You've even rejected this! You have rejected our proposal to extend the right to strike further with the guarantee of a political solidarity strike and the constitutional ban on retreat, the well-known lock out, to extend the strike right to the Security and the judiciary, to be social security sole obligation of the State, to have full safeguard without restrictions on free collective agreements in the public and private sectors, to abolish the constitutional ban on the permanentisation of contractors, which their representatives are today demonstrating on this issue. You even refused to abolish Articles - "zombies", - "birds" 48 and 107, concerning the constitutional safeguarding of the privileges of logistics and foreign capital or the modification of Article 18, so that the country's mineral wealth, social goods, public areas in mountainous volumes, the sanctuary, the archaeological sites will not be allocated to third parties for exploitation. You refused to adopt or overcome with semimeters even some superior demands of urban modernisation, such as the complete separation of State-Church, which has been launched for two centuries in some countries and has been carried out in other countries for decades. And we're talking about the full separation of what this means, like the abolition of the prevailing religion, the obligability of the political press to the oath, marriage, etc. - regardless of course of respect for religious feelings and the possibility of a religious marriage - the abolition of the categorical nature of the religious lesson. And all this - which was made out a hundred years ago in our country by the founding conference of the JRC, then TEC, and indeed as direct requests - you rejected it in the name of Maximalism. It's a pillow - you say - what the JRC is asking for. You rejected the simple and unadulterated analogy constitutionally rather than the caricature that you bring with 10% of seats may not be distributed proportionally or the arrangement not to appoint the head of the courts by the respective government, which was your own old proposal, as is today the proposal of the judges. All of this, which could be a package of progressive proposals, has been rejected without debate. Of course, we had no illusion that you would adopt them, because the strategy you are serving does not fit in with the slightest discrepancies, not even fundamental changes in urban modernization. That is why we are making these proposals, above all, for discussion, for reflection on the people themselves, on the workers' movement, on what we have to fight and claim today, so that through this struggle workers realize that the defence and expansion of these rights require deeper radical changes in the economy and power. Because today no matter what the workers finally win, they are sacrificed to the altar of the "seasons" that protects your Constitution: the individual property in the means of production, the exploitation of human beings, the false formality - this false formal equality! - which exists in the exploitation societies between the poor, the unemployed, the worker, the backbone and those who have and possess all wealth. We therefore propose a higher form of democracy, based on places of work, in an unprecedented form of direct participation, control, hereditaryity, accountability and revocation of elected representatives of the people, as part of a new social organisation. The people have the right to fight in such a direction and also have the power and power to impose that direction. Besides, your stress to ensure political stability, it also shows your concern about possible instability. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We in the political system call on the people not to be afraid of them, but to make use of them, to expand them to their advantage, to prevent measures from being taken against them, to detract from what they can form a connection and conflict conditions with the rotten capitalist system. In conclusion, Mr President, with the articles, we will vote 'in favour' in articles which we agree, even though we do not regard the proposal as satisfactory. We will vote'residents' in articles that we may agree should be reviewed, but we believe that the direction taken is inadequate or problematic and we will vote 'in' in articles that we consider to be in a reactionary direction. And we are clear - what we have said to the committee, what was the position of other parties, such as the SYRIZA, in previous constitutional revisions, regardless of whether it changes it now - that in critical constitutional provisions the number of 180 Members should not be gathered, so that the next parliamentary majority will not have a 'white check', freely to change what she thinks. With this principle we have also gone to previous constitutional revisions. We shall now hold this position in critical constitutional provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. The last of the special speakers is Mr Georgiadis from the Centroon Association. Please keep time. Then we go to the speakers. The first is Mr. Paraskevi, and then Mr. Tragakis. I repeat to the speakers that the sixteen of the committee will have one single time with the Members who have been added, that is to say another fifty. We've been in a single time for seven minutes. I would ask that it be kept, because we have now reached the hundreds of fifteen speakers. That's reasonable. After all, we all decided this morning. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be brief too. I'm not even gonna run out on the 20th. Ladies and gentlemen, by studying the axes of the proposed constitutional review, it is easy to understand the entire effort of the government to make one, at least in our view, in the context of a revision of the Constitution. This is demonstrated by the detailed assessment of the individual proposed amendments, which avoided radical areas for strengthening basic principles, such as transparency, impartiality, equal treatment of citizens against the law, in general the representation of the general basic guarantees of compliance with the constitutional principle. In its turn, the Party of Officers is proposing significant amendments to the current constitution and even though some of them, both parties, could say that it is right to go along, there are some ambiguities or testify to a lack of careful and incomplete consideration of the issues. As the Central Association, we have worked very carefully, personally and thoroughly, concrete amendments which, at least in our introduction and at the time of our general proposal, were ignored by all the parties. Within the number of arrangements proposed for voting there is room for a variety of classifications. I'd like to make some reports. A first category is amendments that do not aim to adapt obsolete constitutional provisions to modern social needs and perceptions, but instead aim at the constitutional introduction of minority political ideas that do not find legal base in both political order and society. Such, for example, is the proposed introduction of religious neutrality, which creates too many problems, without actually solving anyone and causing the popular feeling in general simply for the benefit of political obsessions of a overwhelming minority audience. A second categorisation is changes that are purely distinctive and therefore are introduced to promote the political profile of the Government or the Anti-Population Officer rather than to ensure certain social rights - for example, the amendment to Article 21, which concerns the protection of the family and so on - which are simple declarations, in fact empty content, since their requirements cannot be guaranteed by the legislator and the administration and ultimately cause the citizens to be disregarded against constitutional provisions. A third category is amendments aimed at changing the rules for the operation of the institutions in a way that also serves small and medium-sized interests, effectively affecting the institutions. This is the case, firstly, for attempting to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from Parliament and the possibility of dismantling it, which simply reveals the will to get rid of the responsibility it has for any failure to act as a single body. Or even for the proposed constructive vote of distrust, which, along with the proposal for a new Prime Minister, is obviously unavoidable. The same applies to the excessive number of million signatures for a referendum to abolish a resolution and to the five hundred thousand signatures for a referendum on a critical national issue, which makes the institution really and practically inappropriate. Finally, the proposals of the Officerial Representation to elect an explicit, predetermined date of the House's dissolution and early elections for the remaining period under Rule 53. They are proposals that are allegedly intended to eliminate the government's tactics, but they may ultimately facilitate the micro-party tactics of the opposition in question. A fourth category relates to changes which have been made in a rough manner, wrongly misguided, we consider, unclear and without compromising what is at stake. Such proposals are, for example, an amendment to Article 24 on the protection of forest ecosystems, which, inter alia, defines the concept of forests in a way that is obviously arbitrary. Like also the vague proposal to replace the President of the Republic for Rule 34, or even the proposal in the referendum, on the basis of Rule 44, the question - states - that it should be formulated in a understandable and comprehensible manner, which, at least in the view of the Union of Centres, may raise, in the opinion of the Union. The next category relates to amendments which are proposed inconsistently, without taking into account the disruption of the social constitutional order which will be caused by their adoption. A proposal likewise is the direct election of the President of the Republic by the people, which will primarily mean that - and I stress it - a possible future constitutional transition from the presiding parliament to the presidential democracy. The same applies to the proposal to prohibit the participation in a governmental office of judges after, for any reason, their capacity has been lost on the basis of Article 89, which violates a large number of constitutional provisions such as Article 1, Article 5, Article 22. Another category - sixth in the order of what I mentioned - are proposals which, regardless of their specific content and their correctness or not, create important areas in the existing Constitution, such as religious neutrality or the establishment of non-state universities, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is the state's statute. By definition, its purpose is to describe in general the main principles governing the organisation and functioning of the State as the rule of law and as a social State and the basic rules ensuring compliance with the above principles. Consequently, the Constitution as the main pillar of the legal order is called upon to be of a universal and time-consuming nature - we all know this and agree to the whole House. Every proposal to revise it must be made in dreadful and on the basis of wide-ranging social and political consensus and compositions, but it must also concern only the above fundamental principles and not extend to specific issues to be regulated by the joint legislator. In addition, in conditions of non-regularity, such as those prevailing in our country in recent years, the constitutional review should not first be abducted because it is in danger of switching from an instrument for adapting the supra-party rule of law to an attempt to limit the work of parliament and government to micro-political criteria. From what I have already said, it is inconsistent and secure: the incidents that demonstrate the furniture and only marginally in line with the letter of the law, but not in its spirit on the substance, the function of Parliament is almost every day. The government majority, the principle of declared, the concept of the parliamentary group, the concepts that all Greeks have experienced and never raised questions of questioning, have been put on the table in a new way for the citizen. The events, unfortunately, confirm the positions of the Centro Association which, from the outset, pointed out that the current political situation is violating sobriety, stability, the possibility of national understanding, which are the guarantees of a balanced, successful and effective constitutional review. On the contrary, everything advocates the position which the Union of Centres has always expressed, namely that the process of constitutional revision is a simple pretext through which the government and Census are simply addressed to their electorate, without any further essential will for real constitutional revision. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Finally, as we have seen and seen in the last few years, it is more pressing and more time-consuming than ever before the proposal made by the Centro Association on the loss of parliamentary status in the event of the independence of a Member of Parliament, particularly if it has been elected on a list rather than a cross. Some necessary legal adjustments may be needed. For example, there should be the maintenance of the parliamentary seat, but without the possibility of joining another parliamentary group, without the possibility of counting its vote on a vote of confidence or the vote of confidence being only Members belonging to and participating in parliamentary groups, and so on. There are too many proposals that we could discuss to eliminate all these phenomena that we have seen in recent weeks, not to say in the past few months. However, the important thing is that it aims to decouple government stability from random or therefore part-financed parliamentary independences of MPs who move their seat from one party to another, thereby creating temporary, fragile and heterogeneous parliamentary balances and majorities, which do not, as they should at least, reflect, a solid government cohesion and, at the same time, ignore the will of the Greek people, because, as I have said and have said, as a group of centralists, the voters are voting for a party and its MPs because they are represented by this party and these MPs are in this party and their opinion is heard. If Members were to move to another party, they could have automatically voted for the other party. So we must ensure this will of the Greek people in what he wants to vote for. This proposal therefore protects the validity of the Member on the one hand and removes any possibility of a parliamentary status and is based on negotiating and renowned Members of Parliament in connection with a transaction for the purpose of obtaining certain exchanges, that is to say, ensuring their future political survival. Such phenomena, unfortunately, are now very common in parliamentary life, which becomes unclear and uncertain, exposing the whole political world in the eyes of citizens. It is therefore important for us to take the necessary measures in a context of ethics and self-regulation in order to defend the prestige of our political system towards the citizens who each day are facing it with an increasing abhorrence. I am not going to place myself in total on the articles. We have done so too many times, and we have spent several hours during the committees, and indeed, because it is Mr Paradiseopoulos who presided over, I must say from the Step of the House that it was a smooth and consensual process and it was a productive dialogue and despite all the objections that all parties might have had between us, at least it was a very good process and on a very high level. The only reference I'm going to make is for Article 86 on the responsibility of the Ministers. Because it has been heard that we will not support it as a Centro Association, I want to be specific to some things, because we do not know until the end, until the final vote on what we are going to do. First of all, we are in favour of changing this article. We think it should be done. We must stop all the responsibility of the ministers. On the other hand, however, we cannot accept that there will be a 20-year-old non-registration for any offence, because at the end of the day there is a danger that no Minister will want to take up his duties and be afraid to sign anything because it can be framed in the future. However, we certainly cannot add a percent to the proposals, which have come from both the Civic Opposition or the Civic Politics. We will see at the end of the day how we support this article with arguments. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say this: once the normality and smoothness of the functioning of our parliamentary system has been restored, when our Parliament will not be afraid to be reproached, as it was not afraid until now, when a President of the Republic of Cyprus was given a broad acceptance, when the unprecedented, obvious and unprecedented political games of the last parliamentary term have been completed, then perhaps the appropriate time for the start of constitutional revision consultations with a very serious possibility of achieving real and productive results. We will also be put through the parliamentary representative and through our speaker and the President during the plenary and certainly at the time of the roll-call vote on the articles. After all, we have tabled proposals on what articles we consider important to be revised and how. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u114	As the President said, we are starting the list of speakers. I say the first five, the two of whom are in Athensis, are Mr. Paramadopoulos and Mr. Tragakis. Then Mr Kritsis, Mrs Christophilopoulou and Mr Dousina. Time has been decided to be seven minutes for everyone. Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President, I would like to know whether I will have a chance to speak two minutes more than seven. Nine minutes, I think I'll be able to use some...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u116	Start your speech and you will have a little tolerance. But it's seven minutes for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u117	But, Mr President, it has already been 15 seconds. I will try to make it quick and say, firstly, that Mr Katrugalos expressing thanks for the members of the review committee and their contribution to the creative climate, which we had, covered me and I can thus be brief. Therefore, I will only extend to two reports due. One is to the Vice-President, Mr Tragakis, not only because of his well-known experience, but also because of the parliamentary ethos with which he helped the process, and also to Mr Katrugalos himself who, of course, could not thank himself and, of course, thanks are addressed to all the members of the committee one by one. I would like to say that this constitutional review, which is being attempted, if it has a key feature - particularly with regard to SYRIZA's proposals - is, in my opinion, honesty. This is not a proposal aimed at a political benefit in view of the forthcoming elections or in view of the post-elections and the future to strengthen the power of the Left or of any power. It is a proposal that pursues what it shows. What do you mean? A correction of malfunctions in the functioning of the democratic culture and its appearances, its specific functions and the reinforcement of some of the individual and social rights, which seemed to be needed, in view of the crisis that we have experienced, which, of course, has also affected social life, but which, as we know, has affected, to a trial level and the functioning of the political institutions. I would like to say at the same point, with reference to the sincerity of the SYRIZA proposals, that this is not the moment to judge the proposals for revision based on the incentives that may exist. At the moment we are obliged to judge the proposals on the basis of their aptitude, on the basis of their correctness. A maximum regulatory map is being prepared, which is expected to be in operation for many years. When, after ten and twenty years, a constitutional arrangement has been adopted by this Review, it will be of very little importance what the intentions were. There is indeed the New Democracy proposal, which calls for elections to be held every four years. This suggests a party calling for elections every day. It does seem that the motives and arrangements are at odds here. We're not going to deal with this. We will see the arrangement if it is the one that the country needs over time. As also, I would like to say about the position of the JRC. Colleagues have said here that they question the motives of certain regulations because they come from a government which, as far as I am concerned, had another practice. Let us forget the motives and see the arrangements that we are trying to produce if they are what democracy needs, what the country needs. If you want, and the sincerity of SYRIZA's intentions is seen by the fact that, in the proposals of the flag, it seems to be the revision of Article 86, so that it can be essential for the search for criminal responsibilities by politicians. On the other hand, the issue which mainly seems to be of interest to the New Democracy, if I am judged by the latest positions and also by the communication of the issues of the Constitution on that side, is Article 32. Of course, Article 32 concerns the political flow and the rotation of governments. It is not an article which, over time, tries to see the issues of rights and democracy. Now, these are the issues that are bored in these proposals, and they are well known. It is Rule 86, the proportionality, the non-dissolution of the House. Among the rights that we are asking for revision, let me personally emphasise the proposal for a revision of Article 25, because something very important arises from it, namely that the abuse of rights should no longer be anticipated as a exercise of rights. That's not right. Apart from the reactionary function that may have been in the past in the use, the use of the abuse of rights, what we must say is that the individual and social rights that are part of our Constitution by Article 25 are rights of decent survival and decent survival can never be subject to abuse. It's always necessary. Of course, the notion of obedience to the concept of abuse can very much help the proper application of the rules so that we do not have adverse effects on the rigidity of the rules in some cases where the rules are malfunctioning, such as if we are dealing with debts of EUR 0,5 or with seizures of EUR 0,5, etc. Of course, SYRIZA's proposal also has a defensive side. He is trying to reject neoliberal tools, such as the tradition of university knowledge in speculation and the so-called formal budgetary rule concerning the constitutionalisation of budget balances. I would like to add to them a few words and a few procedural words concerning the direction, which is also the subject of today's vote. I believe this: we cannot, in the light of a question of Revision of the Constitution, which will have consequences for decades and years, rather than a consensus on the other hand, in order to make the corresponding choice, which will last for the same length. I think, in short, that, in the light of the Constitution's Review, it would be reasonable to have an opinion both on the first review House and on the second reading after elections. What do we make like this? We ensure that the constitutional review, the choice of substance responds to popular sovereignty over time and not just to a popular domination that took place at an opportunityal moment. That is why I believe that for three reasons it is right that this House should define the direction in which the Review is to take place. The first reason is that today's House is going to revise regulations on the basis of a reasoning, on the basis of a rationale. This reasoning which has shown that we are in a malfunctioning state, obviously shows at the same time and necessarily what the direction of the Review is. This cannot be underestimated, it cannot be ignored, because then it is like ignoring the reason for constitutional progress, for discussing the arrangements. The second reason why registration is necessary, in my opinion, is that in order to have time-resilient and time-resilient arrangements, we must, on the other hand, regard as a creature and a people's sovereignty and a people who also have a time-consuming nature, that is, the popular will of which has been asked and tested at a corresponding time. The last argument in favour of taking into account the direction is precisely that the principle of confidence and predictability is leading us to do so. The opposite view that the new government can get a text and work on tabula rasa or, to say it more Greek, exploit a white exchange rate and do what it wants, firstly, run counter to the principle of confidence and predictability of the regulations and, secondly, leads to a powerful choice, which cannot, in the long run, help the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I want your consent. To Mr Paradisepoulou, who was chairman of the committee, I left nine minutes, as I will do with Mr Tragakis, who has written his own long and quality presence, which will not be repeated by any of us. Then we'll go to seven minutes, as the president said. Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, the process of the Revision of the Constitution is the top parliamentary procedure and, above all, it is not about parties, but also about the government. It's about the MPs. In the committee elected Vice-President, with Mr. Paraskevi, who is a fair and good President, and Secretary, Papatheodorou, a remarkable work has been done by all colleagues, and the scholars will find remarkable high-level positions. I would like to say that the highest courts often refer to the minutes of the Review Committees to make decisions and opinions. It is well known that I have been Chairman of the Constitutional Review Committee twice in 2007 and 2014. I would like in my experience to mention a number of top-level articles which concern us, for example, with what Mr Paradise has closed down, Article 110. It is well known that a large portion of constitutionalists does not want us to touch Article 110. We have this in our proposals for the Review. Why? Of course, we do not want the Revision of the Constitution to be a joint legislative work. But we want to shorten the time, because, as I will prove afterwards, time is very important. When I was a secretary of Parliament in 1974, Constantine Karamanlis, Constantine Tsatsos, Papaconstantinou, Constantine Stefanakis had introduced majority regulation, i.e. the post-majority majority -'majority' means a hundred fifty-one in the first House, a hundred eighty-eighty in the first, hundred and fifty-one in the second - thus wanting, after elections are intervened, to enable citizens to be able, in order to create the conditions, to judge the constitutional reforms. I shall make a comment now, Professor, on the nomination and revision of the House. The view that also prevails in the constitutionalists, but was expressed in 2007 and 2001 and always in all constitutional revisions, is that the parliament is proposing, going in the direction, indeed, because we need direction and content. The House is not concerned with the contents. This is very important and we need to make it clear. It's not just us: Svolos in 1933, Kyritopoulos in 1962, Georgopoulos in 1963, Mannesis in 1980, Vangelis the Venizelos in 1984. The House is therefore the one which does not define the contents. I would like to refer to some other articles. For example, an article on top is Article 32 on the election of the President of the Republic. The Parliamentary State has been operating since 1985-1986 since its implementation - and the abolition of the so-called enhanced powers of the President of the Republic for thirty-two years and has worked well both in the period of crisis and in the period of 1989-1993, which was a period which had many serious issues. Whether certain powers have not been exercised by the President of the Republic to date, which, for example, had control of constitutionality, a procedural condition for the call for a referendum - it is a very important issue that we have seen in the 2015 referendum - what proved to be a key problem with regard to the President of the Republic is the procedure for his election and, above all, the forced dismantling of the House if an increased three-fifths majority, that is, eighty-eight Members, are needed in the third vote. The next parliament shall elect the President of the Republic, even by a qualified majority. I would like to see the two proposals from the two parties here a little. What does SYRIZA propose? SYRIZA proposes a process of long-lived, six-monthly and if all these votes are fruitless, then we should be directly elected. What's the danger? And I'd like your attention, please. While the House is being dismantled in this six-month period either because the period of the Parliament is over, either because of the sudden proclamation of elections or in some way the President of the Republic is missing. What's going to happen? The next House will want a majority of eighty for the election of the President of the Republic again. In other words, one House will want three votes with an eighty-eight and the other Parliament which will be formed after elections have been held, rather than a hundred and fifty to a hundred and eighty. This is an issue that needs to be addressed and we need to look at it with great care. I would like to make a brief reference to some articles, such as Article 16. The functioning of private, non-governmental, non-profit higher education institutions is a key article. This is true in all the countries of the European Union, even in too many countries of the world, not to say to almost all of them. I shall mention two typical examples. The Republic of Cyprus, apart from the three public universities, also has six private banks that bring foreign exchange influxes in the country, which was valued at about 5% of GDP. Can I get another extreme example? In the Occupied There are two state universities and six English-speaking universities. To the Occupied. And you know, GDP in 2015, if I'm not deceived, was 1.6 billion euros. One billion euros was among the private universities in the occupied territories. So I would like here to invite or even ask SYRIZA's colleagues not to be negative in Article 16. And I'll explain why. If the House today does not review Rule 16, Rule 16 should come to a proposal in Parliament in 2024-2028. The next Review House will be in 2028 by 2032. Fifteen years will be spent to have private, non-profit higher schools institutions in our country. I shall refer to Rule 24. The 1975 Constitution for the first time included Article 24(1) on the protection of the natural cultural environment, which is the right of everyone. For the first time, in 1975, the condition of sustainability was introduced, which we all respect. However, the conditions were later, when the concept of sustainability entered. Therefore, this principle of sustainability does not exclude sustainability. On the contrary, it creates those conditions - and there are decisions of the Supreme Court - that allow sustainability, i.e. in some cases. And an important proposal from the New Democracy for Article 24 is the designation of forests. For the purpose of characterising forests, we propose that the period of aerial photography should be taken into account on 11 June 1975, because the Constitution has been in force since then. Why do we say that? For the oldest aerial photographs, which were used in 1947, even in 1936, brought enticing results. Whole districts of Athens were considered forest. So you realise that also Article 24 must go for revision. I shall briefly speak about Article 62 and Article 86. We have all agreed on Article 62 that it should be reviewed. I am going to give a small parentheses here to say what is irresponsible and what is the irresponsibleness of the Members. Rule 60-61 speaks and defines the irresponsibility of Members for their thoughts and their votes. Article 62 speaks of the impunity, and that is very important. We are all agreed that all politicians, MPs and ministers should have the same legal treatment and legal treatment as all other citizens. For Rule 86, what I would like to say is for the amortization deadline. Articles 62, 86 are articles in which we agree. I think that we are also in agreement with Article 32 and I think that Article 32 will go for revision. The next House will certainly be the one to introduce and vote on its content. I had a lot to say about the financial impact. I might testify to it in the Minutes. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the New Democracy is proposing provisions for a Constitution that is functional, serious, socially sound, progressive, with important interventions both in terms of legislative power, that is, Parliament, executive authority, namely the government and judiciary, education, the environment and finance. That is why I really want to invite you, to challenge you, but if you like, and I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to leave this opportunity for the Revision of the Constitution to go lost. To proceed with arrangements that will actually leave their prints for many years. Believe me, it needs the place and the experience of 2007 was traumatic. By 2014, even more, because the process was not even started and we lost four whole years to go to a new revision parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 6th General School of Painter. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Georgios Kyrikou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a special day for the House. Revision of the Constitution is one of the top procedures of the National Representation. Also, the Constitution does not change it every three or a little. It also contains its own self-protection, within the meaning of the special and time-consuming procedure required, for the revision and increased majority voting, but also the fact that its revision extends into two parliamentary periods. We are therefore amending the Constitution when there are reasons, when we want to secure collective social conquests or restore them, if they have been eaten, or to strengthen them where they have been brought. Since the last major Revision of the Constitution, in 2001, it has been almost two decades. The revision we are debating today is also a constitutional matter, because it has taken time, but also particular reasons for it. Many things have changed in this time period. The main thing, however, was the almost ten-year involvement of the country, institutions, economy and society in the millstones of rescue programmes and memoranda. If one wants to outline the situation in which we have been in the country and which we have to deal with in constitutional terms, we must say that we have seen the predominance and the imposition of the economy on policy and, in fact, the imposition of the money on democracy. It is indicative to try to constitutionalise neoliberalism, through the introduction of the so-called 'golden financial rule' in the Constitution. We also had an almost complete breakthrough in the social contract of the so-called post-political consensus, a denomination of the political elites, but also of politics itself, the emergence of fascist anti-parliamentism, the emergence through the crisis of the pathogens of the client system, interactivity and corruption throughout greatness. The Review we are discussing aims to learn lessons from the Memorandum and introduce rules for the protection of institutions, society and the country in corresponding crisis situations, but also the challenges of the future. Such changes, in this direction, are our proposals to change Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers, which seeks to remove the provocative inequality towards the law. Such a change in the direction of deepening democracy, ensuring active popular participation, for example, is the proposals for referendums. Other such critical changes, the importance of which has emerged through the memorial adventure and neoliberal trip, are the protection of common goods, are the aid and guarantee of a decent standard of living for all Greek citizens, the safeguarding and expansion of individual and social rights, the minimum wage, collective labour contracts, unilateral recourse to arbitration. Ladies and gentlemen, it is another crucial axis of the Review that it is about modernising the relations between the Church and the State. This is a change which is included in the general category of what we call 'civil modernisation'. In other words, there have been changes that have been mature for years, which SYRIZA, the Left, has not even had to come to power to promote. However, decency in earlier conservative perceptions did not allow these changes to go ahead. The talk is among those who would like a more bold move towards the complete separation of the Church from the State. However, even incomplete intervention by guaranteeing the religious neutrality of the state is a crucial step, which we must dare. A significant change in this category, which we have mentioned, is also the extension of Article 5, where it is clearly stated that the protection of individual rights is provided regardless of sex, gender and sexual orientation. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to focus a little on the proposal to guarantee the protection of animals, in which I have had the honour of being the first signatories. This proposal concerns - let me express - the educational nature of the Constitution. It is proposed that a new special article be adopted. I am critical of the fact that there is Article 24 on environmental protection. I believe that this article is not appropriate. It generally refers to the protection of the environment, fauna and flora, without particular distinction being made as regards animals, which are lost in the general context of regulation. I believe, in other words, that our proposal is more of a legal nature than in the context of the protection of the environment referred to in Article 24. The proposal seeks precisely to distinguish animals and to emphasise that they are not things. The guiding principle in this direction is, in my view, that Milan Kouder's devotion to humanity is precisely what is at stake in the treatment of those who are in her mercy, namely animals. The adoption of such a provision in our Constitution will not dismantle the culture of cress, nor destroy agriculture and livestock, but ensure protection from barbarism and the mistreatment of all animals, wild and day-to-day, dominant and stray animals, labour, production and pets that remain with these characteristics. In recent years, the relevant legislation in Greece has taken important steps. It is seen as progressive with European data, but its implementation is limited and dehydrated through the inspired attitudes of the past. We have laws and at the same time we have daily cases of abuse, torture, killing animals, especially pets and older working animals, what we call "kill horses when they grow old". The adoption of our proposal - similar provisions - also exist in other European constitutions, such as the Netherlands and Germany - will improve the situation in terms of the awareness of society and of the administration. It is a proposal which ultimately aims to make us a little better society and a little better people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr Kritsis, and respect for the time. We shall now proceed with Mrs Eve Christophilopoulou from the Democratic Regiment. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this procedure, in fact, as a top parliamentary procedure, should be very consensual as we could do it. I would therefore like to say that the last speech by my colleague on animals and their protection is extremely important. I would, however, like to begin by pointing out that we must be very careful when we talk about parliamentary and anti-parliamentism, because in the last four years we have seen more delayed and inconsistent amendments, all of which have never been too long and ever more legislative acts than ever and because the constitutional review itself has been too late to come to its home, in its institutional area. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that the present government, the majority, had time to start the constitutional review within this House a long time ago. It is a pity that for two and a half years we have had various communication events, some of which have not resulted in any substance and we have been too late to come to our institutional home. That is why we must be very careful when we talk about anti-parliamentism for decades. I oppose the political climate in which it is taking place, because if we talk about anti-parliamentism, about the dissolution of parliamentary groups or about the efforts - institutional or anti-institutional - to regroup MPs belonging to one group or another or not belonging anywhere, I would say that this is all unprecedented. So this top process is just in 'approximately five' and we do not really have the opportunity to have a very large, thorough debate on constitutional reform and to have this debate bold and consensual together. As time does not allow me to refer to all the articles, as the first two speakers have tried to do, Mr President, I will try to concentrate on two articles, and I agree with Mr Kritsis only on one thing, in that the articles are reviewed when the social and political conditions make it necessary. I shall therefore choose Articles 16 and 102. Mr. Home Secretary, I'm glad you're here for this. With regard to Article 16, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the years of fear which my own place had over non-profit universities, today's conditions are conditions of the Second Industrial Revolution, where our country, like other European countries, loses minds, academics, students, researchers, abroad. Many of us, ladies and gentlemen, have also studied foreign non-profit universities, universities of excellence, which you so much fear. Conditions require that, without fear, without regression, we see a system of universities which will ultimately favour the public university, a system which can produce synergies between private non-profit - I say again - universities and public universities and - why not - no no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. Today, more than ever, it is a great need for the country to invest in extroversion in tertiary education and not just in innovation and excellence. So we need to see this famous article together again, not to go to neoliberal approaches, as we hear them say. We support the change in Article 16 in a direction where there will be strict certification, control and supervision and, indeed, not bureaucratic because we are in favour of reducing bureaucratic burdens and increasing self-interest and public universities. We are in favour of a system which would ultimately favour the Greek citizen, students, researchers and academics. Finally, in addition to the self-declaration of the education process itself, it would favour the development of the country and productive reconstruction. That is why we really regret that there is no sufficient number of Members so that this article can be revised. We appeal to everyone and all sides to think about it again. In the short time that I have left, I would like to talk a little bit about Article 102 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that the majority proposal for self-government is to try to constitutionalise 'Clathen', a mere proportional system - not in itself the simplest electoral system of simple analogy, but its specific 'CLISTEN' - which is replenished by almost all the members of local government, but, in essence, to work on the constitutional reform through this regulation which you are proposing in a chaotic direction, in the field of local government. Ladies and gentlemen, for us, for the Change Movement, local government is an important institution and social and political one. That is why we believe it is necessary to support it, because it is precisely the conditions now that make a third wave of decentralisation. You know very well - and some of the ministers of today's Parliament - the major reforms carried out by PASOK, which New Democracy has never won by its vote. You are now showing yourself to the enthusiasm of local government, but you have never voted for any reform. Today, then, we should change Article 102, with regard to the first and second degrees, with a system which would ultimately favour the clearing of competences and the taking up of the development role on the part of the region and the social fundamental role on the part of primary government. And because I have no more time, I want to finish with what our rapporteur, Mr Loverdos, said this morning. We may not have had the competent number of Members to put our own institutional proposals into discussion, but you know very well that for two years we have made our positions public in terms of both the state and the issues of immunity and the issues of individual policy areas, such as the time and luck of transporting. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed of the history of the building, forty-one students and students and four teachers from the High School of Asclipio Argolis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Dousinas has the floor. The next five colleagues are Mr Vorides, Mr Gilolas, Mr Karakostas, Mr Papaphippou, Mr Tsiaras. The State Secretary, Mrs Papakostas, will take the floor in the middle for seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u125	I would like to begin, Mr President, by saying that the debate that has taken place in the committee was, I think, one of the most interesting discussions that I have been involved in, with a real dialogue between majority members and opposition. I would particularly like to mention Mr Tasouula, Mr Javarras and others, who have allowed us to have a substantial debate. I took up the position of Deputy SYRIZA Secretary-General for three chapters, and I want to start by giving the theoretical foundations, the philosophical backbone that gives consistency and coherence to our proposal and shows the great difference with the New Democracy. Firstly, the distinction between politics and politics, 'policies and the cultural' in English. Politics consists of our daily practices, from what is being done here in the House, the ministries, the government. The policy, however, refers to the fundamental way in which social ties are organized with its profound contradictions. This is a modern reference to the Roman distinction between autoritas, legalized power, and potestas, the power that maintains the cohesion of society through the domination of the few over many. This dual concept of politics as a consensus and a conflict is also expressed at the constitutional level. The constitutional reason for this is twofold, an artificial language which sets the rules of political and social reality, but it is at the same time a critical political language, the language of social and individual hope, the question of social injustice and inaction. The constitutional reason therefore combines the area of experience and the horizon of expectation, consensus and conflict. Secondly, this combination of consensus and conflict was expressed in the post-war state with what we called social rights and a social state. In other words, a marriage of opportunity between the two main ways in which national wealth is distributed, on the one hand, the market and ownership, on the other hand, social justice. And it was just democracy that controlled uncontrolled market action and corrected its results and social justice. But the end of the Cold War released capital, capitalism from control of social justice. Governments are no longer asking for the recognition of citizens, but for the love of markets. Thus, this new convergence between the Central Left and the Central Right was created, which led to this hybrid of neoliberalism. Today this economic model is in retreat everywhere, throughout Europe and only in Greece we hear from the constitutional proposals of the opposition, the possibility or the desire for this model to continue. Thirdly, the organic complement of this so-called neoliberal convergence is the post-democratic treaty. Societies are complicated, they tell us. Problems are extremely difficult. The class struggle is over. Social tensions have been reduced. Only experts and technocrats have the right responses to the major economic, social and development problems. They should therefore not be consulted and voted on. People make mistakes. Citizens' participation is discouraged. Election abstention is growing and we have the great increase in right-wing and nationalism throughout Europe. These are not problems for the opposition, but for us, they are the centre of the multidimensional crisis that we have been through and from which we are dating. Our proposals re-populate politics in three directions: firstly, representative democracy, secondly, popular sovereignty in its direct democratic form and thirdly, the relaunch of the social state. The most important strengthening of the representative principle is the establishment of the proportional electoral system. The creation of the multi-party coalition and co-responsibility governments is the strongest counterweight to the Prime Minister's model and government almighty. In the same context of strengthening the government's policy and stability, there are proposals that prevent Parliament from being dismantled on the grounds of the failure to elect a President of the Republic. Our proposal therefore tries to prevent elections from taking place, giving Parliament a long time to create the necessary consensus, but recognizing the participation of the people in the supreme state process. In the same direction, it is also the proposal to be the Prime Minister elected MP, but also to propose a limit of terms of terms for MPs to stop the logic of family rule, dynasty and contempt. The second series of proposals is based on the fact that our society is gradually going through the transport era where the general mind, science and technology, language and communication have become key production forces, operate with horizontal cooperation, with intense networks, with network connections, radicals. In such a knowledge-based society, the limits of its delegation and of its vertical political organization are visible. We are therefore proposing to extend popular participation by holding a referendum on critical issues or a draft legislation, as well as the introduction of the popular legislative initiative. These measures bring people to the fore, but they also bring dialogue and consultation to the people. We are told, of course, that this goes against the principles of democracy and the Constitution, but a Constitution as a law which is outlawed by political power and at the same time restricts it, regulates political power, must reasonably come from a higher power. Historically, all the important constitutions, what we call "scheduled power", are the results of revolution, liberation, overthrowing dictatorships. It was the expression, what Habas Seyes called, "educational authority". And this editorial power remains active. It is the substrate supported by the Constitution and is a continuous presence of the people in the exercise of power. Our proposals, therefore, are the beginning of a process of reconnecting democracy with the municipality. At the heart of our programme is, of course, the relaunching of the social state. I will not say much about this, but for us the social state is not some secondary and paradoxical measures, a safety net for our poor fellow citizens, but it aims to transform social inequalities. And here I would like to make one final comment in relation to Article 5, where we propose that discrimination on the basis of sex, sexual orientation and gender identity should be banned. This proposal cannot be accepted by the New Democracy. But what does this rejection mean, rejecting a liberal change? Here it seems that, apart from neoliberalism, the New Democracy, some of its parts, are moving towards a opposition to liberalism. We carefully and gradually outline Greece of the 21st century. I think that the controversy of progressive and conservative perception is clear. The battle for Greece of the 21st century will be fought on this conflict. I believe that progress will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. Mr Makis Vorides, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps I will need a little of your tolerance, as you have done with the previous ones, which is not something special.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u128	Mr Voridis, we only show tolerance for specific reasons, otherwise it's half a minute for all ninety-five Members to speak. Here you go, Mr. Voridis. I have no time, because we have already eaten twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u129	Good, Mr. President. A first question, ladies and gentlemen, which arises, is what the need for a Constitutional Review is. One would expect that the key issue facing Parliament, but also the proposed parliamentary majority, is to see if the Constitution is to deal with these dramatic events that we have experienced over the past years, essentially with the economic collapse of the country and its bankruptcy. Looking for whether there were any constitutional provisions that allowed, facilitated, accelerated, led to this collapse and thought about it. I heard a previous speaker from SYRIZA, Mr Kyritsi, who said that yes, of course, we are responding to that. It is one of the points of our starting thought on the constitutional review and what are we doing about it? Hear what Mr Kyritsis said: "We inspire...", are the proposals of the SYRIZA, "immediate democratic institutions, referendums and change the law on the responsibility of Ministers". In other words, in the crisis - this is the analysis by SYRIZA on the Constitution - we were driven because there were no referendums. So now that it's happening, there won't be a crisis again. That's what he says. And secondly, because the law on the responsibility of the ministers was not good. For example, SYRIZA does not think that we have led to this because for many years these parliaments and the different compositions of Parliament with any versions, the deficit budgets. That's not my fault. The fact that there have been expansive budgetary policies all these years, regardless of public finances, is not concerned. The fact that, in the end, there was no rule and there was no rule in the Constitution that posed such restrictions, nor does it employ nor is it a matter. So SYRIZA realized that from now on, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no crisis, because there will be referendums. The second issue that exists to discuss this constitutional review is that under the Constitution the constitutional review is a compulsory consensual parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u130	We did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u131	You said so, but you did not do anything about it, Mr Dousina. Because this requires a substantial, real, deep dialogue with the other political forces, not only institutionalised, but I will also say informally, in the preparation of the constitutional review to build these consensus. This, too, wants another style, it wants another morality, it wants a different concept, if you want to be effective in the constitutional revision process. So, what did you get here? What is the epitome, the crown of SYRIZA's proposal for constitutional revision? I am not saying the various minors now, because they are minor. Stay in what's contagious and central. What are the flagship and central points, the flagship of SYRIZA's constitutional review? The revision of Articles 3 and 13, i.e. religious neutrality, the revision of Article 86, the law on the responsibility of Ministers and we stick alongside Rule 62, i.e. the immunity of Members. These are your convulsions. From all the crisis, from all the big part of the economic collapse, which one should be taught, SYRIZA came to talk to us about religious neutrality. To talk, but it is important to know that in these contagious points and in particular in Articles 3 and 13, which is a symbol of the Review, you have not guaranteed consensus. The lack of consensus means that it does not move to the next House. What, then, is the value of this Review? What will be summarised in? In Article 86, and I will say below what Article 86 specifically refers to. But listen, the ideological sign, because this ultimately remains as a footprint of the constitutional review, of SYRIZA, is the issue of religious neutrality. I have a simple question to ask: What is not properly regulated in our Constitution in relation to Articles 3 and 13? What more would you like? Be careful, you do not venture to say that you want complete popularity, because this should lead to the abolition of the prevailing religion - you do not propose it - and the abolition of the preamble - you do not propose it - and, possibly, to a different approach to the concept of cultivating the national and religious conscience of Article 16, but you do not propose it. So you do not put the great things that would lead you to the complete popularity, a form of French laicite, you do not put all of this, but you say religious neutrality. Why now? The revelation of the incentive for religious neutrality and the initiative of this constitutional change is found in the famous Decision 660/2018 of the Council of State. When Mr. Friends attempted to change the lesson of Religiouss, they appealed for parental associations and the Church against this ministerial decision, which was annulled. It was annulled because the Council of State said that the development of Greek and not other national consciences, like the development of religious conscience, means the development of the Orthodox Christian conscience rather than of another. "And for this reason..." says the Council of State, "because there is a prevailing religion, the lesson of Religiouss is allowed to be homologous and therefore, any change that is not in this direction affects the rights of Greek Orthodox disciples and families to claim from the state the provision of such religious education and conscience." This decision is the nail in your eye. This decision is at the heart of the necessity of religious neutrality. Religious neutrality actually opens up the way for this change, for the abolition of the lesson of Religious, but also for other changes for which I personally have been diagnosed, when I pointed out what they will be, in fact, why you do not want to say in public the consequences of religious neutrality, as in other states. In other States they shall directly assume responsibility for this post. You just don't take it a step. You do not dare to say this openly, you do not dare to speak clearly about it, you do not appreciate to say that religious neutrality means that the illustrations from the courtrooms, from the school halls, will be taken down by the cross from the hospitals. You dare not say that. Say it, because that's how we'll get into dialogue, and so we'll know your motives when you say that in a clean and straight way. By the way, I am not saying that this is communism. This is happening in France, but it's a model. Tell this model to the Greek people, so he can choose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u132	Close with this, Mr. Voridis. We're in eight minutes and fourteen seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u133	Good, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u134	We're moving on with Mr. Ioannis Giola.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. We had heard in the past about the abolition of the Christmas fence, so I do not think we were particularly impressed by what our previous colleague from New Democracy said. We're talking about steps just, firmly, loving and really. We are talking about impartiality against all religions. We are not interfering with Caesar, Caesari, the separation of Church - State. Everyone's taking the lead in his field of responsibility. To its faithful, while the state refers to the citizens of an entire state, indiscriminately of religion, sex, and all the rest. I would also like to refer to something else before I go into the main issue that I want to address, and that is the matter of the Parliament proposed and the direction that should be taken in our direction. Why, ladies and gentlemen, are we going to such large meetings? In fact, since this morning you have started and yelled out saying 'it is not enough for a day or two to do five whole sessions in plenary'. Why for one, a month and a half we held continuous meetings in committees? What was it? If it were only a matter of simple articles, we would play a WORLD, we would play a LOT, and we would say "1", "X", "2", i.e. 13, 45, 102. We have, however, been conducting a whole series of issues here. Why should this amendment proposed by this House be voted on at two divided meetings? After a month, we'll have meetings again. Why then, if it were minor, should we not leave it with a simple majority of fifty-one and the next one with an increased majority of eighty-eight? However, both meetings are equal, have the same strength and are voted either by a hundred or eighty. I feel the need to respond to some other simplistic doctrines that have been heard by the previous speaker on the subject of reducing the provisions with the intended constitutional revision that we are proposing as SYRIZA. He referred only to the neutrality of religions and perhaps only to it. He obviously has not read all the axes and where the proposals and the dynamics of this amendment are based. It is the strengthening of the political legitimacy of Members, ladies and gentlemen. It is the limitation of their term of office, immunity, the restoration in any case of the credibility and prestige of political persons in this place. It is the functioning of the government, the abolition of criminal privileges of the ministers. That was not a question of Article 86, so that at last criminal justice can be treated with the ministers, like any ordinary citizen. It's the election system. Why is he hovering you? The analogous system that we recommend is an amendment, a radical reform of this Constitution, is concluded and co-operates with the law of simple analogy, which we have also proposed and passed through this House. It is the recognition of religious peculiarity with the political oath, referendums and popular participation that I will deal with later. Finally, it is the immunization of social rights at work, health, welfare and social security that are no longer established as citizens' rights, but as an obligation for the state to provide these highest goods. It is the protection of workers from discrimination on grounds of age, sex and so on. Finally, it is the guarantee of collective agreements. It is therefore a great framework on which we have moved and presented to this House our proposals for constitutional revision. I would now like to refer in particular to the strengthening of the institution of the referendums and the introduction of these on a popular basis. Of course, the referendums were also provided for by the Constitutions, but they were not dependent on, or had no limitations or any means of interfering with, the popular factor. The referendums, therefore, undoubtedly constitute the only democratic expression of the will, the only perfectly genuine and unmediated expression of the will of the people. After all, it says the project of our Constitution, where popular sovereignty is recognized as the foundation of the civilization. In particular, our proposal for a revision of Article 44(2) brings the following new elements: Establishment of the referendum on a popular initiative, in other words a call for critical national issues following a demand of five hundred thousand citizens with the right to vote. Withdrawal of a bill, if something goes wrong, and people suffer it, what it can do, except, of course, financial measures at the request of a million citizens. It is about 20%, perhaps less than the electoral right. The Parliament's only intervention with an absolute majority of the total number of Members is to rule in the event of a dispute on the critical or non-national subject. As far as local referendums are concerned, I think that those who have been nurtured in local government are accepting such requests, which, for reasons of call from the local authority, which at the time had a large majority at the time, did not allow the people to intervene. It is, therefore, crucial that citizens be invited to the polls not only to choose their representation, but sometimes to be heard of serious national and social issues, actively and actively involved in decision-making centres in critical and vital areas of direct interest. Citizens are encouraged to avoid permanent pathology, the sofa phenomenon, indifference against political life and the logic of entrusting all issues to politicians alone. The practice of constitutional introduction is followed on a constant basis in a number of European and other countries. I have had a number of examples to give you, in summary terms, Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Austria, Denmark and many other countries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One example - and with this I would like to close, because I have no time - is the negative, unexpected decisions of the referendums. It is about the Treaty of Lisbon in which the proposed amendments to the euro constitution were voted down in the Lisbon Treaty. Here, then, as an example, the proponents of the absolute decision are using parliaments, the representation, that is, that the negative popular verdict may block necessary procedures that promote the economic development of the states and the smooth progress of them. However, this claim also lacks the very basic argument that the people always decide on the basis of the prevailing conditions and their choice should be seen as a positive, correct and fair, but also as a genuine contribution by the people to the policy that concerns them. I'm sorry, I'm going to have to close because time's up. It is therefore a cry of concern for the people and we must give him the dynamics of bringing in, because there are many examples of the economic crisis that the people of both France and other countries, such as the Netherlands, have voted against the proposals so that politicians can now get to grips with the circumstances, take into account the will of the people and coordinate and co-ordinate with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u136	Mr Evangelos Karakostas has spoken since the Golden Dawn. Then Mr Papaphippipou, Mr Tsiaras, will speak and Mrs Papakostas will speak. And I say to the rest of the five colleagues, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, Mr. Delis, Mr. Syragos, Mr. Adonni Georgiadis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u137	Today's debate on the proposals for the revision of the provisions of the Constitution comes at a time when major national and political developments have taken place, and it is still fresh ink with which the government signed the anti-national agreement of the Ambassadors and the subsequent betrayal of Macedonia, an agreement with which it was and remains more than 70% of the Greek people, according to all the latest popular investigations. According to representatives of the parties of the so-called democratic arch, both in the government and in the opposition, the Revision of the Constitution is the fundamental and topical act of a democratic state. As such an important act would therefore be expected to take place in a period of time and within a climate of political normality and at the same time to be sufficiently time-consuming, but also essentially enough. However, these conditions are clear that they do not exist. And they do not exist for the following reasons: first of all, the debate on the revision proposals is taking place in an election period which the government itself has formulated and declared. It is for this reason that the procedures of the Committee set up for the Review have been carried out within such a short, inversely similar, types, even, of the importance of its work. But it is not just the pre-election period that we are going through that contradictory element with regard to today's debate. The most important thing is that the debate and the subsequent decisions that will be taken are in full political anomaly. We have, in other words, a government with a majority of forty-five Members, assisted by creditors from other parliamentary groups, who no longer have parliamentary groups. Most importantly, however, the debate is taking place while in fact the government has lost not only parliamentary but also popular legitimacy, with the vast majority of citizens demanding that elections be held immediately so as to get rid of the red junta which it serves the interests of foreigners. In other words, today the communists of this minority government are coming to present us with the guardians of democratic normality and constitutional legitimacy, speaking of the need to revise constitutional provisions, in the interests of the people, when they themselves are provokingly contemptuously despising the people and betraying Macedonia, serving not the national interest, as they expressly state, but the interests of the Americans and Merkel government. It is worth pointing out that the discussion of the proposals is taking place in the days of a president who, as of January 2018, had talked about the upcoming reorientation of the political scene due to the Macedonian, a subject on which he returned in September 2018, when he also announced what comicotragics have taken place, saying in an interview that, due to the general political developments, phenomena appear to be liquidating political forces already in 2018 and 2019. These few, but entirely indicative, for the works and days of a communist government, which has evolved into the most loyal puppet of the Americans. And now we are going to the Civic Opposition, in New Democracy, which also provokes itself more or less as the guarantee of the defence of democracy and the respect of constitutional rules. In September 2013, the then government of New Democracy launched a clear political persecution against the Golden Dawn, which is the epitome, the definition if you like, of the constitutional diversion in the modern political history of the country. From then on and until now, New Democracy officials, from her leadership to the last half-paid dog, proud and misguided that New Democracy closed the Golden Dawn in prison. These same officials are now coming to represent the custodians of the separation of powers, according to how the Constitution stipulates, but the truth remains one. Samaras, in his capacity as Prime Minister, closed Golden Dawn in prison, so we have a carabinatis violation of the distinction between executive and judicial authority. We therefore have a catalyst of constitutional legitimacy. This reality, of course, is not only denounced by the golden people. He has been confessed to it since 2014 by the then Secretary-General of the government, who confessed that the prosecution was unleashed because voters of the New Democracy turned massively towards Golden Dawn, resulting in the percentages of the Greek nationalists moving between 15% and 18% in the summer of 2013. And we arrived in 2019 and only last Friday, from this Step, the President of the New Democracy, who very much guarantees respect for constitutional legitimacy, said: "The New Democracy led to the violence and the hatred of the Golden Dawn on the stand". Really, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Because we thought that driving anyone in this Chamber was a task of independent justice. So we deliver to the mockery of the Greek people both Marxists and liberals, supposedly defenders of the democratic order and constitutional legitimacy. A permanent position of the Greek nationalist movement is the election of the President of the Republic directly from the people. Because then and only then are they the main President of all the Greeks. The Golden Dawn, giving essential meaning to the concept of popular sovereignty and fully respecting the will of the Greek people, requires referendums on all major national issues. The case, in fact, of Macedonia's recent betrayal by just a hundred and fifty three MPs, whose decisions are in complete contrast with the will of the vast majority of the Greeks, demonstrates the need to implement this proposal. Golden Dawn considers the need to abolish any privileges and immunities which Members and Ministers enjoy today. It considered it necessary to abolish parliamentary immunity and also the shameful law of'subject to the responsibility of ministers'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Golden Dawn requires the abolition of the state funding of the parties. The parties of the so-called democratic arch, including the New Democracy and the PASOK, which owe 230 million and 190 million respectively, are receiving a state grant of millions of euros. On the contrary, the Golden Dawn has not been receiving state funding since 2013, but nonetheless, it does not only work inevitably, but the third political power of the country remains undeniably. Our movement is unnecessarily and unnecessarily against the separation of the Church and state, which are commonly used by SYRIZA and New Democracy and aims to deprive the Greek nation. It is your right, gentlemen, to state as many Europeans as you wish. However, it remains an inalienable right for our compatriots to declare proudly and without the slightest feeling of guilt Greeks and Christian Orthodoxs. Our people have the right to change politicians, but no politician has or can change our people. Greece, whether you like it or not, belongs to its people, belongs to the Greeks! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u138	My colleague George Papaphippipou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the next year's economy I will only develop the part of our party's proposal on amendment - Article 62 and Article 86 of the Constitution. After all, the review of these articles was recommended to the Review Committee as our party's special rapporteur. The proposed amendments seek to restore, on the one hand, the price paid to the political world, especially during the period of crisis and, on the other hand, the people's confidence in the political system and democracy itself. I absolutely believe that, with what I will explain below, you will be convinced that it is possible to achieve our goals and that our proposal will be voted on by a majority of more than three fifths. After all, as has been noted in the debate and voting on our proposal in the Review Committee, this is the most mature thing to be accepted by the above majority. More specifically, with regard to each of the two articles mentioned above: Rule 62, our proposal for the revision of this article relates to parliamentary immunity, in particular to the non-violent Members. Parliamentary immunity is an extension of the principle of freedom of establishment laid down in Article 60(1) of the Constitution and has two parts: the irresponsibleness of Members, established by Article 61(1) of the Constitution and their irresponsibleness, established by Article 62. With our proposal, the impunity, namely the requirement of prior authorisation by the House for the prosecution, arrest, imprisonment or otherwise restriction of the Member, is limited exclusively to offences relating to parliamentary status within or outside the House. The previous leave of Parliament is abolished for all other offences, to which will apply to Members of this House exactly what applies to all citizens. It is essential to point out this point: parliamentary immunity, i.e. both irresponsible and irresponsible, are typical examples of institutional guarantees. That is to say, not in favour of the Member as a person, but in order to ensure the proper functioning of the democratic culture through the unrestricted exercise of the Members' powers. It is for this reason that parliamentary immunity is limited to what is necessary, which is achieved by our proposal. Finally, with our proposal, parliamentary immunity is fully in line with the relevant case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, which, in judging cases concerning parliamentary immunity, found that this should be provided only for acts directly linked to the parliamentary duties of the Member. It should be noted that one of the judgments of that court, namely the judgment of 16 November 2006 in Tsalkidzis v Greece, is of Greek interest and relates to Article 62 of the Constitution. Our proposal for a revision of Article 86 of the Constitution, which regulates criminal liability of Ministers and State Secretarys, in active and former terms, for offences committed in the performance of their duties is: firstly, the abolition of paragraph 2 of the article, which was first adopted - I stress - by revising the current constitution which took place in 2001, and it stipulates that Parliament - which, according to paragraph 1 of that article, has exclusive competence for the exercise of criminal proceedings against Ministers for offences committed in the course of their duties - may exercise its powers until the end of the second part-session of the parliamentary term which starts after the end of the crime. Secondly, the abolition of paragraph 3 of the same article, which stipulates that Parliament has either the right to revoke its decision on criminal prosecution of Ministers or to suspend both the procedure and the main proceedings. Thirdly, the addition of an interpretative statement stating that the offences referred to in paragraph 1 of that Article, namely those carried out in the course of the ministerial service, do not include what was done only when the ministerial duties were carried out. The reasons which, according to our party, not only justify, but make our proposal urgently necessary with the above content are as follows: Firstly, the time limit referred to in paragraph 2 of paragraph 3 within which the House may exercise its powers is amortised and its impermeable status deprives Parliament of its competence, which is exclusive. In other institutions of the State, i.e. the prosecutor, the judge or the judiciary, may not enter directly or indirectly within the scope of this parliamentary competence. The expiry of the above-mentioned depreciation period therefore results in the elimination of the gains, which have the same effect as those of the derecognition. The above provision, with its minimum amortization deadline, actually leads to the impunity of the Ministers for offences which are committed in the performance of their duties and which, due to their nature, have a huge moral indulgence and often cause enormous damage to the Greek public. Parliament's ability to revoke its decision to prosecute criminal proceedings raises strong concerns about the operational autonomy of the prosecutors and the independence and impartiality of the proceedings. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is clear that these two provisions are brutally violating the principle of equality and rightly provoke the strong and harsh criticism of the entire legal world and the anger of the citizens. They shatter and undermine their confidence not only with regard to governmental and representative institutions and political bodies, but with regard to the whole political system and democracy itself. With our proposal, then, non-private provisions on the political system are being abolished, and criminal prosecution against a minister will be possible at any time within the framework of the ordinary law of time when the law of limitation of the offence is being lifted, without the possibility of the House either withdrawing its decision to prosecute or suspend the latter. In other words, it will apply to the ministers what applies to all citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Papaphippippi, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u141	At the same time, however - and this paragraph must be particularly carefully taken into account - the sense of justice and equality between citizens will be restored and sufficient and necessary conditions will be created to restore their confidence in the parliamentary and political system and democracy itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u142	We are closing the first ten of our colleagues with Mr Constantine Tsiara from New Democracy. Then I'll give the floor to the State Secretary, Mr. Papakostas. Here, Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate on the constitutional review is a top parliamentary procedure, perhaps the top parliamentary procedure. That is why one must be very careful - and I would say to you with the utmost seriousness - to approach all the issues in this debate, because otherwise the message we send to society and Greek citizens on the one hand raises many questions, on the other hand many doubts. Of course, I could start by reminiscing the Prime Minister's well-known phrase in the SYRIZA-ANEL first government's programming statements, where he said it would be the every word of the Constitution. The reality itself disproved him. Obviously, it created even greater issues and even greater gaps between all of us who serve the central political scene and our fellow citizens, the Greek society. What, though, is the Constitution? The Constitution is the charter that defines relations between the Greek state and the Greek citizens. It is the guide that defines, in a very specific way, what the state's obligations towards society and citizens are, but of course, what the obligations and rights of citizens are with regard to whatever state. I am saying all this because we must at some point understand that this debate cannot be the subject of a micro-political confrontation, but it must be found in a wider area of consensus with many possible and different targets, which will ultimately give a result that will actually serve the Greek citizen. The 1975 Constitution - the main body of which we still have today and believe that we have a constitution in the country - you know that it was voted on with the general outcry of the then opposition. Everyone then claimed that it was a constitution that could not be implemented and under no circumstances did it not provide all these elements that were supposedly parties of that period in contrast to the then government would give the Greek citizens the opportunity to have the rights they all wanted at the time. The reality itself also disproved those concerns, but much more so that outcry and those objections. At all the meetings that we held in the Committee on Revision of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the Coupling - and I address to you - there was no debate day that you should not mention that there is the approach, beneath or through the 'left-hand' perspective. As if the Constitution were left-wing and right-wing, as if in the Constitution we can lay conditions that serve one or the other political party, one or the other ideological site. I do not know if that was because of the guilt you might have had - since the previous period of confronting the Independent Greeks, you obviously even split your audience or voters - but it is obvious from the other side that such issues to a very large extent always expose those who claim them. Because a constitution which serves Greek citizens must in fact hold political consensus, there must also be agreement from the opposition. If it is a constitution that we are voting on or amending just so that we can incorporate our own ideological beliefs or references, you can understand that it is not a constitution that refers to society as a whole, and that I think that is the biggest problem that has arisen in a confession - and I shall also turn to it - a good overall debate in the Constitutional Review Committee. The question, however, is that the Constitution is not being reviewed by ideological persons, with left or right, but by the Constitution is being reviewed simply because reality itself forces us to carry out all those changes so that the average Greek citizen can serve and possibly serve all these developments that have created a different situation compared to four to five decades ago, which we had in the Constitution of Post-Culture. The review procedure is a collective and parliamentary procedure. Its final product, ladies and gentlemen, must be a product of discussion, compositions and obviously of consensus and perhaps compromise. So it must be a modern constitution. It must be a Constitution for convergence and unification of concepts and opinions. What for? To be sustainable long-term. That's why. Because when the Constitution - let me term - it is not 'broadspace', it is not a Constitution for all Greeks, a Constitution for all citizens and a Constitution for all political forces. So the Constitution's review is an extremely political issue. Its approach must be a political approach, reflect and express the general interest of the Greek people and the Greek society. It is not and should not be an approach of short-sightedness with specific ideological filters. It is not a theoretical issue, a legislative exercise or a laboratory product. It is a major political initiative, which must respond to major fronts, to major dilemmas, to many developments that have taken place in recent years and obviously affect Greek society. The New Democracy and our President, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, believe that the forthcoming constitutional review is an important opportunity for the country to inaugurate a new period of reintegration. We also want a constitution that has a prospect, which communicates with society, which is open to developments in the economy, science, technology, a Constitution that is open to all political forces. In the process of constitutional reform, in essence, power is accumulated in Parliament, not only is it the majority, but it is, as I said earlier, the opposition. I shall refer in particular to the articles next month that we will have the repetitive debate. And as all this may be heard and not adopted, I would tell you that all of us today, ladies and gentlemen, are doing our utmost duty as Members. The responsibility of all of us is heavy because we will determine for the next decade the framework for action of the Greek state. We must therefore all take the necessary responsibility. To take advantage of a unique opportunity to deal with the necessary seriousness and realism of certain key issues for the upgrading of our political life and the functioning of democracy. If all of us stand above party commitments and micro-party misery, if we see what the real interests of society are and if we do not use the institutions for micro-party purposes, and of course if we all vote in full sense of responsibility, then we will obviously have done our duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u144	The Foreign Minister, Mrs Papakostas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Proposing House, ladies and gentlemen, is the phrase which, in my view, defines and defines, in my view, that the Parliament is the top democratic institution through which the people are represented, in this case the Greek people, through the MPs, who are voted by the citizens of all opinions, in all colours and represent the nation and are still voted by citizens of shades beyond the narrow party limits and opinions of the parties, namely the political parties. Otherwise, the power of the parties would be established if anyone were to claim that citizens of other respects do not move and that they do not vote in favour of MPs belonging to specific political organisations and political parties and that this is established through a tank which is not moving. Then we would not be talking about democracy, but we would be talking about consolidated parties. So, see, we've degenerated the top institution, which is a protagonist in our parliamentary democracy, which is the MP. The Member should therefore, in a top-level process such as the constitutional review, consult his conscience and vote according to his conscience. There are three hundred MPs elected by the Greek people on the basis of admission and acceptance - unless anyone has a different view, obviously the extremes and extremes have a different view - that the top institution in parliamentary democracy is the Parliament, so the MPs. In the top constitutional review, we should see and who is, ladies and gentlemen, the role, value and the way in which Parliament's top institutional actors are dealing with this and not on a case-by-case basis. So I have to say that in the constitutional review we are discussing an undeniable need, that the seasons have changed. And there is an undeniable need to go beyond the "but" and "why change"? And why, in any case, should we move on to reforms of a constitution that works? And what are these important changes that exist?’ and if these "response and respond" to the difficult 10-year period of the economic crisis, which the Greek society experienced in a traumatic and painful way, especially the weakest, the most vulnerable groups in society. No falseer of this. No greater wisdom of it, which has been said by previous colleagues and by previous speakers, who has even defended it with passion: “What changes do you bring, in any case, and how do you respond to the crisis and its inertia towards the Greek people? With what? With the religious oath? With religious neutrality?’ But no falseer, I repeat. Because here everyone who speaks, ladies and gentlemen, then votes, also assumes responsibility. And his responsibility is not just today. It will also be tomorrow's and time-consuming and will be delivered from generation to generation and everyone will be registered in the collective subconscious according to his offer, with his honesty, in the way he conducts himself with a high sense of responsibility for the office that we all have as MPs. So it's not just today's what we're talking about. Record and remain as a negative or a positive deposit to the next. I would like to say this: as President of the New York office I considered it my duty to put forward proposals which, in any case, can respond to the needs of the constitutional review. So there, ladies and gentlemen, I have noted that this constitutional review is dealing with and reviewing the following very important things, in response to those who said 'but what exactly are you responding to this revision'? The first important thing is the social agenda, on the occasion of the revision of the articles that form and demarcate what we call a social constitution. And what's the social constitution? The social constitution, ladies and gentlemen, in which we agree, was our own proposal and we coincide with the proposal of the proposed majority of the House, which we want to see approved by all three hundred or others who share democracy and serve it in a responsible and conscious manner and do not degenerate it, embody it, tarnish it or despise it. We are therefore in agreement, we are signing and voting in favour of the social constitution. Here, a major change after ten years of heavy, deep economic crisis, to support with special protection for the family, to support with special protection the motherhood, children, the elderly, the disabled, the poor. And this is not considered to be a major review proposal, it is not considered important to intervene in a constitution that passed through the legacy of the ten-year memorandum or memorial! For example, do we not think it is very important to reform and revise collective bargaining to create minimum wages and health rights, to have decent workers and to have all Greek women and all Greeks equal rights for accessibility to health services? Is it not important, for example, in the review procedure to ensure the enforceability of arbitration and the right to unilateral appeal? Is it not very important that the people on their own initiative should be able to intervene on issues that they consider to be of top importance, with popular referendums? Is it not very important that the electoral system, if it is avaded and responds to what the citizen is voting on and actually subtracts his vote or is it simple and proportionate to represent the power of political parties, such as citizens want to be recorded through the democratic election process? It is not even important to those who do not want to change anything! Of course, I must tell you that something else is not important, as some people have said. What is it - says - the change? That the House is being strengthened? How is the House strengthened, ladies and gentlemen? [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I'll need a minute too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u146	You've got a minute, Maximum.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u147	Of course, Mr President. So how is the House strengthened? Parliament will be given the opportunity to set up committees of inquiry, two per period, in particular by eliminating that provision of Rule 86 to eliminate any criminal treatment of civil servants. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have lost opportunities. What are the opportunities we have lost on this Review, and I have to say it? We have lost the opportunity to break the State monopoly under Article 16 concerning non-state universities. We have lost the opportunity to give the President of the Republic more competence. We missed the opportunity to build a National Security Council. We also missed the opportunity to create a stable tax system so that the country's economy has stable foundations on which it is based. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are losing opportunities, but this does not mean that the proposed parliament is not very important. Finally, Mr President, since I am also grateful for the time available to me, ladies and gentlemen, the slander existed from classical times as a person. I am referring to the Member's institution. I want us to understand that through this constitutional review we are given the opportunity to review the previous attitude that has been demonstrated against the Member's institution in a dismantling manner, which is supported by classical times as negative at all times. Aristophanes had put the sykophant, who was wrongly persecuted into his work by Lawyol, in order to show since then our ancestors that no one can step on the lies, trying to pursue purposes of strangers and no one can attack the parliamentarian because he decides to vote in conscience after consulting his conscience. The Constitutional Review, then, is not...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u148	Mrs. Papakotas, finish it up. Aristophanes is finished because he's written seven comedians.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u149	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Constitutional Review is therefore not a white vote. The vote for the hundred and twenty instalments is not a white vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u150	Please close and leave the hundred and twenty doses. I'll cut you off, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u151	I shall conclude, Mr President. And the vote on the social agenda is not a white vote, it is a vote in the conscience, in the interests of the citizens and the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u152	The next 50 colleagues are: Ms. Anagnostopoulos, which I call on Stepma, Mr. Delis, Mr. Syrigos, Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Chogas. I would mention to them that they will know the order and that colleagues will be there. Mrs Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA. I would also mention parties because the Bureau has received requests from people who do not see, but who hear, to know when they hear whom a party MP is listening. It is good to see all the President-in-Offices. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a top parliamentary procedure on the proposals for the Revision of the Constitution. The next Review House you all know that coincides with the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution. It is therefore an important moment and an important task undertaken by the next Review House. How does one stand when he has a Constitution Review in the light of two hundred years of free political life? Firstly, inconsistently throughout this long course with many bright moments, but also very dark moments. The second, after the experience of the ten years of crisis, is trying with the Review to do something that Splolos said, to consult, namely to bring back to the same bed social matter in relation to the past, what has happened in the past and what has happened in the European space in the past and today, because Greek modernity, the Greek political life has always talked with the European and the co-ordinator. What one chooses from all this life and what battle positions one prepares with the Constitution is very important. What is this social matter that needs to be consecrated again in the Constitution? SYRIZA's proposals relate to individual and social rights, a majority that has been marginalised as a result of both the crisis and the Conservation of the last 20 years from 1990 to 2010. Even more he tries to build battle positions, in relation to and by discussing what exists in the European area, namely the rise of the extreme right, the strengthening of neoliberal powers. When Mr Vorides told us here, he condensed us with New Democracy's proposal to incorporate the financial rule into the Constitution, there we have a huge difference and a great derogation from the Greek Constitutions of the greatest times. If the Greek Constitutions of the brightest moments were equality and freedom, equality as a precondition for freedom, now we go to another thing: freedom autonomous, but as an individual initiative. Is that what we want? This battle position we want to prepare? Here's the first question. Second one. He referred to relations between state and state and to the famous Article 3, which is of the utmost importance, historical but also time-consuming importance in relation to what I said about what is happening in Europe not only in Greece but also in Europe. It is of paramount importance how we see this historic route again: Neutral religious state, explicit safeguarding of the neutral state. Any European political power in this country should have been in favour of a request that has been screaming since the centuries the brightest minds of this nation, King Ferraus first of all. We do not propose an aggressive decorating but France, but it is not symbolic. And it is not symbolic, because the explicit safeguarding of the neutralist does not allow the gray zones that were created in the course of political life and which are condensed in what Mr Vorides said, the Greek Orthodox nation. Does it remind you of anything? Does something remind you of it and do we have to build a battle position now that far-right is going up both Greece and Europe? But he said that we are only proposing it when society etc. Did you receive a recommendation from the ECHR, the National Committee on Human Rights, a national institution, an independent authority in which you are so invested independently? The SYRIZA's suggestion is explicit and unequivocal, and it is not SYRIZA that - I do not know how many people are and whether there are people who are in the SYRIZA - and it says this to cut grey areas. Here's a problem with KINAL. Always in something progressive "close the eye", but where the break and the incision really needs to get out of the middle all that could create grey zones, there doesn't touch his hands. He's talking about the dominant religion. Another big request. And here I don't understand the New Democracy. Why? Because we all rejoice that we know history, do you know why the "dominated religion" entered our Constitutions? I am not talking about Koraeus, who was upset by the idea of entering "predominant religion". We know the historical course. While the vast majority of the Greek people have Orthodox religion, on the other hand they joined our Constitutions because they were heterodorous kings. It has already entered the Ionian State of the Ionian Islands. It has since entered, to protect religion and people have said "We put it for that". That's why Negres in 1844 said "We need to do an interpretative of “dominated”, because we want to bring people out. How are we going to make arts and sciences?" One last word about public universities and Article 16. So while New Democracy is being cut off for tradition, which is condensed in Article 3, it is not being cut for another tradition in which democracy has fallen into that country, which has been the great deed for democracy. New Democracy is constantly talking about the example of Cyprus, Bulgaria, Turkey and all of this. Cyprus did private universities, because it had a national problem and because there was a great difficulty with the public university. I had the honour of serving at the public university - and we saw the reactions. In fact, they have also been mentioned in the Occupied Territories' example. In Turkey, as in Bulgaria, there was a problem of a democratic route. In other countries, such as France, like Germany, etc., we have some private universities. Does any of us know about it? Are Greeks leaving abroad going to private universities or to the best and brightest public universities abroad? So if people go away, new worlds, why don't we open up more places and schools in our public universities? Because when we talked about the Law School in Patras, Mr. Mitsotakis said he was going to shut it down? Why a section of Philosophy, which could be a foreign exchange influx, was established at the University of Athens for the first time this year with a bill of our own?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u154	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u155	I shall close immediately, Mr President, you are right. I mean something. Currency is in money, but it's also intellectual capital. I would not like in our public universities foreign students to come and pay, because I had the great fortune in my life to study in the largest French universities free of charge as a foreigner, because it was free education. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I left foreign exchange and intellectual capital and got a huge capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u157	One of the main aims of SYRIZA's constitutional review is to put water on the mill of meaningless bipartisan confrontation with New Democracy, to fight even more on the basis of a false separatist line "neo-liberalism – anti-neo-liberalism", statement, free market, etc., and thus leave the system itself the capitalist system, which they acquit and serve, of course, faithfully. This argument is chosen to be based on the articles of the Constitution on individual and social rights, because at the end of the day these articles are only of proclamation and usually remain a bloc, without a practical reaction. It is precisely that part of the Constitution that is at the longest distance from real life and here is reflected more than anything in the hypocrisy of the people-positive constitutional declarations. Just a few examples are enough. Let us see the famous principle of equality as set out in Article 4, with the well-known phrase "Greeks are equal to law" and from which they derive a number of specific rights. In the Constitution, it is formally proclaimed that all members of society, of course very specific people - wealthy, poor, exploited, exploited - are all treated constitutionally as equal to that very general, as well as abstract, quality of the "civil". Thus, however, class differences are covered and they are enough to liken the worker to the capitalist. The question is inconsistent: How equal can a worker or a bio-patient be to the person who owns large businesses, with whom he hires and dismisses or has in his hands the media and other mechanisms and therefore affect and manipulates? This is therefore a far beyond formal, seeming equality, which covers the deep class inequality that exists and grows in society. Another example: How much value, really, is the declaration in the same article of the Constitution, which states that Greeks contribute, says, to public burdens without discrimination, according to their powers? Absolutely none, because in practice the very opposite is true: Wild, ruthless taxation for workers and people on the one hand, simple tax exemptions for big businessmen, on the other. Speaking of which, what is really going to happen with those provocative privileges of shipowners, which you have and constitutionally guaranteed in Article 107 of the Constitution? On the occasion of today's review, the JRC has proposed once again their abolition. You rejected it. Why should the oil tax privilege be granted only to shipowners and not to farmers? How does your anti-neoliberalism really raise them? And the right to work, which you are proclaiming and supposed to be protected under Article 22 of the Constitution, is not just a disguised hypocrisy for the hundreds of thousands of unemployed in our country? In fact, what do you respond to the thousands of public, municipal and educational contractors who are protesting today outside the House and throughout the country for their right to permanent and stable work, which your policy deprives them of? However, whatever you have in mind, do not tell them again that you are prevented by the Constitution for their permanentity, do not mock them any more, because if you were honest, you would put the revision and the relevant Article 103, which you left out, rejecting the relevant proposal of the JRC. If we go to the right of strike, as referred to in Article 23 of the Constitution, the reality says that this right is not recognised in the ghettos of the employer while a strike is erupting, quickly - the courts are also making it illegal and abusive. For some time now, SYRIZA has made sure that the right to strike from the primary union is put even greater obstacles. So, where does he put the obstacles? But just where the labour force is operating: in the production unit. These anti-neoliberalisms would be jealous of him too. I am closing with the most flagrant example of SYRIZA's political diaspora, the well-known article 16, the flag of its anti-neoliberalism. A moment ago, here, SYRIZA State Secretary and a member of the parliamentary majority spoke openly about the need to revise it and SYRIZA Members applauded it. Rejoice her. Enjoy these progressive alliances, unless you want to tell us something else, unless it's a trailer from the next of your politics. So I come back to Article 16. We are not talking about paragraph 4 of this article, which mentions the right to free education at all levels, a paragraph without any practical repercussions for the working and people's family, when it is known that it has to put a very deep hand in its pocket to study its children. We are talking about paragraph 5, which is right and which exists, as is right, although it is not enough, and all the positive declarations of the Constitution. So, in this article 16, which speaks of purely public higher education. In fact, our party proposes that this exclusiveity of the public and the free provision of services be guaranteed for all education and health. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] However, let us ask ourselves: How much has Article 16 prevented, which is right, the formation and spread of a whole market in higher education, with the reason - good colleges that emerge everywhere and for which, recently, some time ago, SYRIZA MPs are asking them to recognize their degrees, invoking European directives. I mean, they weren't even anti-neoliberal. How has Article 16 finally prevented university business operations from ejecting SYRIZA? How far did he stop the tuition fees that were generalized by SYRIZA's law on postgraduate? How far did he prevent every need of students from being traded from the roof, from moving, and what study? Not at all. But, unfortunately, it did not stop at all, because it was simply the law of the European Union that prevailed in Greece and even these constitutional provisions. And that is what you all agree with, except for the Communist Party of Greece. Therefore, the more SYRIZA is dismantling neoliberalism, the more willing and effective it implements it, since it implements and promotes its rightfulness, according to SYRIZA, a neoliberal European Union, otherwise. The JRC, by closing down, tabled its proposals and all but you rejected them all. Now become a land of the people and goals of their own struggle. And never forget the people, that the sovereign people are only the one who is perpetuating the wealth it produces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and four educational sessions from the 2nd General School of Kiatos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Antonios Syrigos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I have not been a good runner, but I will try to finish my speech in the time that has been set. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly try to develop some of the things that I mentioned in detail in the committee responsible for constitutional revision and, at the same time, to tell you that the aim of the SYRIZA proposals is to treat and improve the problems of representative institutions as much as possible, which the crisis has highlighted. How do these problems manifest themselves? Firstly, with the deterioration of the parliamentary system in favour of strengthening executive power. Secondly, with the strengthening of the executive power, which, due to the diversity and complexity of the government's problems, problems of governance and their specificity in many areas with terrible demands, has changed to a caste of experts, that is, they have knowledge of technical issues, what we call technocrats. This, of course, works at the expense of the political element of governance, namely politics, since problems are now considered technically, otherwise technocratically. Therefore, their management requires specialists and not politicians, and therefore any solutions that are technical. The technocrat against the politician, since the problems we have said are technocratic. It was a nice machine, which clarifies the political aspect of each issue and did not allow any different perceptions, since it was always within a system, outside politics, as accounting, economics, etc. Thirdly, with the illegality of civil society, since it would now function according to the theory of entrustment, under the guardianship of those who could have ridden it and who had previously taken care to deceive politics and politicians. The main element of the award theory is abstention from the public. So their commons and management is a matter of experts, with the illusion that whenever we want them to be changed and avoid responsibility, since it is not our fault, but our representatives. This latter, namely the lack of responsibility for decisions, the irresponsibility of a society, the inactivation of it and the inactivity of forces, which, as their dominant feature, have an extremist irrational irrationalism, which leads to the degradation of everything. I don't know if I described something that, if we don't, could happen tomorrow. I therefore believe that the debate on the President of the Republic, the House, the government, the referendums, the people's initiative can evolve in this context. I refer briefly to some of SYRIZA's proposals. I come to Rule 54(1) and the interpretative statement concerning the analogue system. The aim is the representativeness, which provides extensive cooperation, cultivates a climate of stability that is necessary for each country and the equivalence of votes. The interpretative statement is a useful tool to ensure the limits of proportionality, without creating rigidity conditions. Article 54(4) of the vote of the non-State Greeks. A constitutional possibility was established and extended, which the joint legislator was given to settle this matter with comfort. Rule 56(5) limitation on Members' term of office. I think it is a positive step that must be followed by others. However, it requires a change of attitude, which is not legally resolved. However, the restriction, he himself, can prevent policy from being professionalised. Rule 59(2) concerns the political oath and Members of Parliament. There has been a lot of discussion, I do not need to mention any more. If we look at it even from a church point of view, the religious oath must not have such use. Articles 62 and 86 deal with issues relating to the equality of Members and, more generally, with ministers and state actors. I do not wish to mention just one point, because it has been fully analysed. I think the proposal is balanced. And what are the two things that need to be balanced? One is the citizens' requirement of equality, transparency and the principle of equal treatment between politicians and citizens. And the other, to prevent easy targeting - it is a danger, a temptation - of the people who manage power and most have been sent from the people there. This balance is being balanced, which we have tabled. Let me say that Article 73(1) is a key article, and it concerns the legislative initiative. There are many people abroad who have agreed on opposition too. I think there is such a proposal from the JRC too. Now in the two minutes left, I would attempt to make a critical position on the proposals for counter-population, especially in the New Democracy. I'll do it if I catch up with you, it'll be concise. However, allow me, since I have also recommended an amendment and an improvement to Article 101(4) on islands, to say that it appeared from this crisis that measures, mainly administratively without discrimination, should not be taken without understanding what is an island or mountainous area and that the core of the administration and its planning should be changed - as it is not just the decisions on regulatory measures - it is what imposed on me this thought. In addition, both revised Vultures have dealt with this issue and there is a need for it to be settled. It is not the same thing to dismantle a service on the islands and on mainland Greece. Civil servants don't live there the same. Moreover, I am referring to our proposal, which has been tabled to amend paragraph 4 and to add the interpretative statement to the minutes of the committee and to the report. The need to adapt the administrative model to the particular environment of island and mountain regions is a setup that does not violate the equality of citizens, since geography itself requires. I therefore appeal to all of you to vote for and support it and to open up this chapter in the debate we are having on the constitutional review. It's not an exaggeration - believe me - or unnecessary. I think that there should be an island policy and a policy for mountain regions, because the administration is getting worse, it is not working properly, much is not being taken into account. I do not know whether I can, in the one minute I have to say a few words - because that is the right thing to do and they must be said - about the proposals put forward by the opposition. However, I will be concise as to where I am sceptical and do not share them. There are some valuable principles that must be respected and violated. The first is to safeguard the self-regulation of the legislative power of the state, the parliament, in other words, leaving it in the Rules of Procedure. That must not be broken. There are hints on the proposal. The second is the non-conflict of legislation with jurisdiction in any form whatsoever. After the law was passed, he is rightly controlled by the courts. That's right! Then! Before, even with preventive control, I think it will cause a problem. Thirdly, the budget, although primarily formal law which does not contain rules of law, is, however, the most valid law on which the current government will is reflected. I therefore think that, because it is a political text, it should not be bound by the various rules which can be imposed as thoughts, because, in other words, it is limited the possibility of a policy by governments and it is also the adoption of a specific political choice that, since not everyone, can no longer standardise a general provision of law with over-legislative power, such as the Constitution. All of this applies at the same time as I think that opening multiple funds together with such principles as the one I have just mentioned leads to a constitutionalisation - perhaps it is a bad and unfortunate term - of policy, which can lead to counterproductive effects. It is the constitution that leaves the margins in politics. He doesn't dictate her. Thank you very much, Mr President, and apologise for the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u160	Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to a matter of more staff, but also to a parliamentary issue. A moment ago the court ruling condemning Mr. Paul Polakis for 18,000 euros compensation to the family of the deceased Vassilis Beskani was issued. He was in this House, in this very Chamber, where Mr. Paulakis then launched his well-known slandering, muds and excavations against a man who, unfortunately, has finally left life and has not been able to see his vindication of his grandeur today. Fortunately, however, there is justice in Greece, which spoke and condemned Mr Polakis as a hybrid. I do not expect SYRIZA colleagues to show any kind of sensitivity or any kind of humanism. They have shown that in the face of the defence of ministerial thugs and their party they are not worries at all. But that's what happened and you should be ashamed that people are being smashed in this way. Today, for all the others who have appealed to Greek justice one will be vindicated, because in the end the truth will shine. I shall refer to the debate on the revision of the Constitution. Because of the limited time, we cannot talk about all the articles and all the debate that has taken place in the committee responsible. I therefore choose to refer to some of them, and in particular to the change you are proposing in Article 3 and your previous great promises of segregating the State - Church. Obviously, this article does not satisfy those on the Left who expected the "first time left" to come to power to achieve the definitive separation of State - Church, as you advertised it. After all, it would be extremely acidic and contradictory for a Prime Minister who for the Prespecies Agreement, for example, preferred to inform Makariot first and then the political leaders and who, when asked for him by the Church, ripped off the Minister of Education, this Prime Minister really believes in the true separation of State and Church. What are you trying to do, though, here? Try, even by leaving, to send a message to attack the core of the traditions of the nation of the Greeks, because yes, ladies and gentlemen, if there is any argument that there is still any kind of religious discrimination in Greece and that some people are oppressed in their human rights to believe in any religion they want, we are all together to fight for that not to happen. After all, our Constitution adequately protects man’s right to adolescence. So, what does this proposal have to do with it? It is only one point, to send a fig sheet to your voters that you are still staying in the sources of the radical left and to show that you can even put them with the Church at this time. Of course, you do not consistently follow a line. Mr. Tsipras visited the Theological School of Halki and Agia Sophia, even without making his cross in Agia Sophia. In any case, he sent a message that you cannot, when you represent the Greeks, be indifferent to Orthodoxy, because, yes, in Greece, unworthy religion is guaranteed, but dominating religion is Orthodox Christian religion. And that's not embarrassing to say. We say it proudly, because we are proud and because we are Greek and because we are Christian Orthodox. With regard to Rule 16 and the private universities, I have heard before Mrs Anagnostopoulou, who made the same mistake as Mr Doussinas in committee. What was Mrs Anagnostopoulou's main argument? He said: "Look to see, and in the countries where private universities exist, all the major universities that you know and where the various children of the wealthy families go are public universities and not private universities." But this argument is in favour of our proposal rather than yours. Why? What do you think? You say that Article 16 should not be reviewed, and that private universities should not be allowed to be set up, because if there were private universities, the development of private universities would compete with public universities and, therefore, the public university would lose in hammers and power from private universities that would suck it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u162	We don't just say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u163	We're not saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u164	If that were the case, it would not be possible for the countries that Mrs Anagnostopoulou said before to have the very good public universities, but for citizens at the same time to have the choice to go to any other private university of their choice. Therefore, the argument that has already been heard in the Chamber says that your argument that the establishment of private universities is supposed to harm public universities has been overwhelmed by reality. The same lady spoke of the public university in Cyprus. But the example of Cyprus shows that it said things that are not true, because the public university of Cyprus, the public university of Nicosia, from 2008 until today, after ten years, that is, when the Republic of Cyprus changed its own Constitution and its own laws and allowed private universities to be set up in the territory of the Republic of Cyprus, has gone up many positions in the international ranking and has not fallen. Competition from private universities benefited the public university of Cyprus and did not harm it. Consequently, all the debate we are having here is a retrograde battle and it is regrettable that the necessary cross-party consensus will not be achieved in this House at last to review Article 16 and not to see our children flee to thousands to study abroad while they could stay and study here. Of course Greece could also become an international attraction for foreign students who would contribute to both the national economy and the education provided. With regard to Rule 32 and the decoupling of the election of the President of the Republic from the elections, I think there is a cross-party consensus there. You will understand that by voting, we must accept your own proposal on the President of the Republic. These will be resolved in the future in the courts. The substance remains. Besides, there have been legal decisions explaining exactly what the Proposing Parliament can do to propose only the articles, and what exactly the Revision House, the second, which makes the text, the exact wording. So it is obvious that we have matured after the experience of 2009 and how George Papandreou then used the election of the President of the Republic to take down the government of Kostas Karamanlis, but also how Alexis Tsipras used in 2014 the election of the President of the Republic to take away the Samara government. There is now the maturity that this was wrong. In both cases it has given rise to problems for the country, and I am glad that we all agree that this must change. It is regrettable that the crisis has taught us nothing and you have not accepted our proposal to discuss the introduction of a constitutionally established ceiling for the budget deficit. After all, you've signed it with the lenders agreements by 2060. In fact, the left-wing government has signed the legal commitment to this. What would change if we put it in the Constitution after you signed it? Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister has signed it. By 2060 he has accepted the goals! What would change if we put it in the Constitution? We would just save one, one and a half units at the interest rate, because the markets would take it as a sign of great seriousness and stability. Which is hypocrisy! What you sign up to on the Eurogroup and commit the country by 2060, supposedly you cannot put it into the Constitution, because that would be neoliberal. And I'm closing up with Article 86. This is where he's become the greatest spit in the universe. First of all, I listened carefully to the Minister, Mrs Papacosta, who said that Article 86 must be abolished. I did a simple search on Google and found that Mrs Papacosta was a Member of Parliament in 2000, so present in the 2001 constitutional review, which passed Article 86. It makes me a terrible impression when a Member of Parliament, without explaining why he voted for an indisputable arrangement - according to her own expression - comes to Parliament and sells populism and says: 'We have to abolish the unfaithful arrangement that I had adopted'. I wasn't in the House, I didn't vote for it. Mrs Papakostas has voted for it, Kurublis has voted for it. At least say an apology. Say, "Hey, you guys, we were wrong. This subtle arrangement has drawn our attention." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But let's actually go. What's the specula? Specula is that the New Democracy reacts to save, he says, its ministers. I guess you're making a mistake. Any revision of Article 86 does not concern our ministers, I am personally, if you wish. It is about your own ministers, because the revision is towards the future, it is not about the past. So if anyone should have a particular concern about whether or not to revise Article 86, it is you, obviously not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u165	That shows our honesty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u166	Finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u167	I'll be right back. I must, however, tell you that, as I have said before, I have made my life, Mr Dousina, a point of proving in the next House, which will obviously not be able to revise Rule 86, that this Rule 86 is too long to put the ministers who are vows in prison. And you'll see it happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u168	Mr. George Chogas has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Kourublis, Mr. Fortsakis and Mr. Baltas will be followed. Here, Mr. Choga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, will you allow me to speak after Mr Choga on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u170	Come on, Mr. Choga, get going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is obviously the foundation stone of an orderly and prosperous state. It is the island that continues the rule of law, maintains human, individual and collective rights in full and guarantees its harmony with the existing socio-political conditions, without becoming a subordinate to the current majority. Over the last few decades, the political system in Greece has been experiencing a crisis that has been transformed into a total lack of confidence in the institutions and in the representative system. Our citizens turn their backs and despise the entire state mechanism and the political system, challenging the quality of democracy. Responding to the democratic deficit and improving the quality of democracy is a need and an obligation to which we must respond immediately, and we must not pass it on to the future. The revision of the Constitution is an opportunity to bring about significant changes in the functioning of the institutions and to redefine those elements that promote the re-establishment of our political system. The revision of the Constitution is an important opportunity, so that together with fiscal consolidation and administrative restructuring we can modernise institutions and close the unresolved ones, whose retention in the constitutional text undermine our political system and are a justification for general decency in the face of politicians and the institution in the representation. Such an openness to which the opposition agrees, that the time has come to settle definitively and irrevocably, is the provision of criminal liability for ministers and parliamentary immunity. This serious victim, which introduced the brief special limitation of the Ministers' offences, came from the 2001 constitutional review and for eighteen consecutive years, has brought all concepts of equal treatment before the law. In particular, at a time of intense economic crisis and the deterioration of the political system, the revision of the Constitution can be combined with the beginning of a new political era, where power will be exercised with absolute transparency and not using special prerogatives, which are at the expense of the Greek people. On the question of parliamentary immunity, too, it seems that we have a broader agreement on amending Article 62 of the Constitution. Criminal immunity as a result of the non-violent MPs, in direct contrast to the constitutionally established Article 20(1) of the Constitution and Article 6 of the ECHR on the individual right to legal protection of the affected citizen from whom he holds parliamentary status, has rightly called on all of us to constantly question the entire Greek people. With the revision of Article 86 and Article 62, the quasi-priority regime will finally cease and the principle of equality and equality will be restored, which constitute the fifthity of justice, the rule of law and democracy. The fact that the revision of these two provisions also suggests that the Civic Opposition, with some variations, creates the backdrop for a creative dialogue, which can only leave a positive footprint in the parliamentary history of the place. In addition, another common site with the New Democracy is the prevention of political instability caused by the dissolution of the Parliament due to the non-election of the President of the Republic. Political instability has many times negative and disastrous results for our country. The consent of the amendment to Rule 33, the combination of indirect and immediate election of the President of the Republic by the electorate and the introduction of a majority of eighty Members during the proposal for a revision of our own, creates the guarantees that will effectively eliminate the early dismantling of the Parliament on the occasion of a national issue of exceptional importance, which only had the aim of provoking elections in order for the political opposition to return to power. The Government, while fully respecting the popular will and being a genuine guarantor of it through Article 102(2), introduces into the constitutional text the institution of the local referendum, and Article 44(2) promotes the strengthening of the institution of the referendum, which constitutes the direct representative form of democracy. Only ten resolutions have been adopted since the establishment of the Greek state. Their number and only bear witness to the distance between people and government and, above all, the lack, if not fear, of confidence in the people's will. The adoption of forms of direct democracy establishs the direct involvement of the people in government and their clearer expression of national and social issues. In the recent past, however, the government has demonstrated that the people must be a participant in matters relating to national issues of the highest importance and not a mere observer, to be chosen and expressed when circumstances require this, except for elections, they are no more than a referendum. That is why we are proposing to strengthen the institution by reviewing Articles 42 and 102. The electorate wants and must remain active and the government is not afraid to address the people and to consult them on matters relating to them. He is not afraid of what that opinion will have, and indeed with the proposal for a referendum directly from the people through a request of five hundred thousand citizens on critical national issues or through the request of a million citizens on drafts of critical social issues. The people acquire voice, strength and control over government policy. With regard to the New Democracy's proposal on Article 44, on an accurate and comprehensible way of expressing the question to a referendum, this is correct as a proposal, but particularly vague when we talk about a revision of the Constitution, demonstrating how superficially it is facing the top institution of the referendum and thus the citizens of the country. In conclusion, I would like to stress that our proposal for the revision of the Constitution is a genuinely reformative proposal, with a view to strengthening the rule of law, promoting popular participation in the political life of the country, empowering the institutions of representation and, in general, the political system and protecting social and collective rights, by ensuring a decent level of living, protection of work, the recognition of health as a social right, strengthening collective bargaining, the definition of minimum wages, the mere proportionalness and strengthening of popular sovereignty. The creation of consensus in modern democracy is the most difficult achievement and consequent challenge for all of us to transform our disagreements into fertile and constructive dialogue, with the aim of improving the quality of democracy and the proper functioning of the genuine democratic culture. SYRIZA's proposal has opened up institutional and structural issues. The crystal clearness of the revised provisions we are proposing, in the face of the deliberately unclear proposals of the opposition, makes the need for them to be voted on historically so that Greece can change its time and move on the path of progress, solidarity and development. The fact is that the initial awkward climate of the underlying disposal in the Review Committee has succeeded an atmosphere of consensus, without consensus other than Articles 62, 86 and 94. Today, after eight years of crisis, having the Greek society in an embryonic memorial era, it shows as necessary a fundamental constitutional re-order with clear targeted and innovative provisions, specifying the political thought of profoundly progressive institutional transformation, democratisation and correspondence with social programmes. Our intention is for the country to have a modern progressive constitution, whose visibility in future can clearly and democratically respond to the social and political demands of our country. I invite you to vote on SYRIZA's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u172	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, she has asked that Mrs Papakostas speak on personal grounds for as long as they were said about the same by Mr Georgiadis. Warm request, Mrs. Papakosta, within one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u173	Yes, Mr President, of course. I fully respect Parliament and always do so in the habit of respecting Parliament. In this respect, I would like to say this. The previous speaker from the speaker who spoke should be aware that at the time that this provision was voted on, which, from the proposed House today, tends to be revised, I was a Member of Parliament, while he was not. It will therefore have to respect the parliamentary experience of someone who, when he speaks, is presumed, contrary to what he says, is not. I would like to explain that this article at the time, Mr President, had a philosophy of protecting civilian staff in the exercise, and in particular the ministers, of their duties in a manner comparable to that protected by the Member of Parliament in his exercise and in his opinion on issues relating to his parliamentary activity and his parliamentary rhetoric. But then, when the House of Greeks and, in particular, the speaker finds that this article has been worked out, in order to be vile and opaque to be backed up by it - this is not known by the previous colleague's previous speaker - firstly, it is the duty of the House to change it and, secondly, from practice and in practice, the laws and provisions which the House is voting on, whether they meet the philosophy of the legislator or are absent from it. That is to the knowledge of all those who know how to demolish very well, but they do not know either the parliamentary morality or the parliamentary democracy or how our parliamentary system works. I'm so sorry about that. It's their problem, not mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u175	Excuse me, Mr. Georgiadis, but you don't have the floor. There's no question of personality. She has given some clarification in accordance with her parliamentary term. We have said what has been said, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, just give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u177	No, we have a serious debate, as we all agree that it is a serious debate on the revision of the Constitution. I will not give the floor to initiate a procedure - let me the term - Ping-Pong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, it is on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Explain something to you. The Rules of Procedure do not apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u179	No, you don't have the floor. Please, I don't want you to explain anything. They responded to what Mrs Papacosta herself considered right to answer. He didn't remind you of you on personal grounds. So you don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u180	But I want to explain why they are on personal grounds. The Rules of Procedure do not apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u181	I don't want you to tell me. It is not provided for in any Rules of Procedure. There is no question of personnel. That's what the Bureau says. The next speaker, Mr Kourublis from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Georgiadis, I heard you. Now you must listen to me too. Mr President, the past often surprises us with its topicality. I would like to say to the colleagues of the New Democracy, who refer very passionately to Article 3, expressing their great love for Orthodoxy and the Greek Church, that the Korais was not only an ethnicist. Let them read him a little to learn his views, because they seem to read selectively. Mr President, we are indeed discussing the most fundamental map of the country, which is the Constitution. We must recognise that the civilian staff, despite the overall climate that exists in recent months, has been lifted to the level of circumstances and debates in an extremely serious way this very important process of these days. With regard to Article 3, I would like to say the following. If one attends church history, even from Byzantine times, one will find that rubbish has always existed in State and Church relations. There have been hard times. If he tries to have a distance from the last two hundred years and he is one of the people who truly recognises the important role played by Orthodoxy in this people's lives, it is easy to draw the sincere conclusion rather than the destiny, of feasibility, that Orthodoxy lost from this hug because he does not need to be afraid of Orthodoxy, through a course of two thousand years, if he will have the support of the State. The Orthodoxy will have a much greater confidence and a much greater understanding of citizens' consciousness if it has its own autonomy. Because, Mr President, Orthodoxy has unfortunately been used by the political system. Nation ruler Eleftherios Venizelos some have made the Orthodoxy curse him. And today can one say that this was an act that benefited the nation? From such mistakes, then, we must rid ourselves of the hugging of Orthodoxy with the Greek state. I didn't want to remind you, but I'll remind you what happened with IDs. And I ask all the hierarchs who know what my relationship is with them: did the New Democracy keep what it promised at the time, or did it just take over the rule of the country, with that terrible saliva, where all together, from the then head of the New Democracy, said that once the New Democracy comes, it will restore this mistake? Mr President, we all need to get rid of obsessed and stereotypes because they lead to distortions, because with that logic we have ruled out having a Muslim cemetery in Attica over these years. And what we patriots, the very patriots, who love Greece so much that from our love sometimes, from the mistakes we make, risk drowning it. We're sending the Muslims who die to be buried in Thrace. And we don't just send the Muslims of Thrace, but we send Muslims from any country that may be able to die here in Athens. What is Thrace? Where does that refer? Have we very patriots thought about it at all? I do not think that Orthodoxy should be afraid of this division. It is hypocritical what political parties are doing today, because we know very well that other constitutional reform efforts have taken a different position. And these aren't issues to play. Because I think we all love Orthodoxy. Because we all recognise to the vast majority, with whatever approach we have, its very important role at both national times difficult and socially difficult times. I'm going to Article 16. Mr President, we must start from the assumption that the Greek family has an excellent passion to support her children, she is willing to deny everything to educate her children. I feel the need first of all to refer to people such as George Papandreou, Evangelos Papanoutsos and Luke Akritas when they established free education in 1964. This was how the "social elevator" worked, and the poor were able to become a doctor and a lawyer, because until then the worker became a worker, the worker's child became a worker, the farmer's child became a farmer. We all know what happened until then and what happened from there. We have a debate on the Greek universities and it is wrong how we approach this issue. Of course, there are weaknesses. Of course, we must say that there are issues like familydom in the Greek universities. I believe that many efforts have been made in the past with a positive attitude, but they have not reached the point where the Greek university should arrive. On the other hand, however, there is one issue. Should we see pro-actively and should we at some point exclude the Canigos Square's IEK becoming universities, as has been done in other countries with known results and go to another model? Let's talk about it, let's have a dialogue...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u183	Mr Kurublis, please very much have it completed. You have already exceeded your time by a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u184	Yes, Mr. President. I'd like another minute, please. We should go to a discussion process. I say we discuss the non-profit university in peace and see what it might possibly offer. And I conclude, Mr President, with something that has to do with both Greece and Europe. At the moment, the great vision of a Europe of the peoples, of social democracy, is threatened by an enlarged and dangerous Euroscepticism, for precisely the powers that have governed Europe in recent years have left the social state to its fate. And we come here and file a series of provisions in Article 21 and Article 22 on social goods...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Curublis, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u186	I'm closing, Mr. President. ... for common goods, for a number of provisions relating to health and safety. And I honestly do not know why the Conservative parties do not vote, but I cannot imagine what would add to a constitutional review of the JRC and not vote in particular on these two articles, which are trying to strengthen the social state by contributing to the reduction of economic and social inequalities. It is the only antibiotic in society today, threatened precisely by the phenomena of social intimidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u187	Mr Fortsakis has the floor from New Democracy. As I said before, Mr Baltas will then be followed by Mr Karas and Mrs Kozobol. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that this process which has been under way for so long is disappointing, as is its subject matter, but also as regards the procedure under way. The crisis we are experiencing is not just an economic crisis, it is not just a budgetary crisis, it is not just a crisis of values, it is also a crisis of a political system. And I expected that we would raise issues that will allow us to rebuild the political system, because the political system is the basis for our country's administration and it is very important that the political system can meet citizens' demands. We all know that citizens have been very indifferent for a long time to monitor political life. 50% of the electorate does not vote and we know that gradually this indifference turns into a revulsion, and even in disillusionment towards the political system, and if we do not pay attention, we risk allowing our citizens to go into extreme situations. That is why I would have preferred to have raised bigger issues and to have opened the debate with a view to making real areas. I would have liked - I personally am speaking on my behalf, because, as we know, the Members in this process represent each other and are free to express their opinion - to discuss the President of the Republic, to increase his responsibilities, for his possible direct election by the people. I would have liked to discuss a reduction in the number of Members, who are too great for our country, to limit parliamentary term. It is true that a proposal has been made by SYRIZA, but this proposal, in my opinion, should have been included in a coherent framework which would allow it to function properly. We should discuss the ban on the accumulation of a parliamentary and ministerial status. We should have discussed the strengthening of the regions in order to strengthen the democratic representation of citizens at their level by reducing their number and their ability to carry out major European projects. We should discuss an electoral system which combines the proportionality which is, of course, necessary, but also strengthens the result so that the country can be run, a model of some kind, like the German one. We should have discussed the subject of the referendum in a way that is not communication, as the SYRIZA proposal does, but in a way where the electorate can actually be expressed when there is a very large number of citizens who want to be placed on an issue. And, of course, we should also have placed ourselves on the question of justice in a way which disguises justice from the deadlock in which it has come, because we all know that, in fact, justice has now reached a point of veto. Such is the delay we encounter in the trial of cases. And since there has also been a lot of discussion about education, I should like to tell you that in order to get away from the famous Manhattan dilemma "private or public education", we could have adopted and established a new legal person, the university legal person and have the legislature taken the initiative to define what is a university, so anyone who fulfils the conditions laid down by the legislature, whether it is public or non-state, can establish a university that operates and is subject to the supervision of a state authority. So we would not have, as Mr Kurublis rightly said before, universities in three years' time, nor would we have public universities that we have founded in areas where we have neither students nor teachers. So it would have been a much more interesting situation if we had opened up these funds. The procedure followed in the Constitutional Review Committee was also disappointing, although I must say that the level of exchange of views has been civilised. At eighteen meetings in two and a half months, the majority in general proposals, which were, in fact, meaningless. I heard the conversation about religious neutrality. I do not see who can question the need for religious neutrality of the state, but I do not see what registration will add to the Constitution of this religious neutrality, which actually exists and already applies. I have heard the proposal on non-discrimination on grounds of sex. I have heard the honourable Minister and Mr Katrugalos say that the New Democracy is behind things because he does not want to recognise the ban on discrimination on grounds of sex, gender and sexual orientation. However, this principle goes without saying. It says the Constitution is forbidden. It is true that these discriminations are also banned and this ban is also in force at national and European level and is not questioned by anyone. There is no need for our Constitution, which is already a chatter and is very much a presidential decree, to make it even more enjoyable by adding everything we think can have a communication benefit. The same applies to proposals for the supposedly widening of social rights, which are unclear and unrealistic. It is also the principle of leniency which SYRIZA proposes to introduce into our Constitution in the field of fundamental rights. If it is adopted in the Constitution - because in fact the case-law accepts it and applies it, so there is no need to recognise it in constitutional terms - we will cause serious interpretative difficulties that are likely to lead to even a relativeisation of constitutional protection and a breach of the principle of legality, on the basis of the economic situation of citizens. The New Democracy has tabled a coherent framework of proposals, which I do not have time to remind you, but have been told by colleagues from New Democracy, and I do not need to say again - and if they had been adopted, they would at least allow us to go towards a form of modernisation of the country's charter, in particular by detaching forces that could be productive and helping to make investments in the country. Unfortunately, this has not happened. I would like to close, Mr President, in the minutes that I have had, because time is imprudent, to say that I am surprised that no proposal has been made for justice by SYRIZA, while we have spoken about a whole range of proposals in justice, such as the abolition of the judiciary, the increase in retirement age, the ban on the employment of judges, for three years from when they leave office, in purely political positions, the choice of the leadership of the judiciary by the House, the disciplinary authority that goes to the ADR, the adoption of technologies that will allow the modernisation of the judiciary, the abolition of the financial prerogatives of the public, the modernisation of the Court of Auditors, the reconstruction of the Supreme Special Court in such a way that - by merging in his case and the other courts - we have had a large number of special courts - to act as a kind of constitutional court. It is a pity that these proposals are not accepted. I close, Mr President, by saying that it is totally unacceptable that the debate should continue and that separate votes have been taken in the Committee on Review, with the idea that this House commits the next day to the substance of the revised provisions. I'm not gonna talk about Chacho again, about Manesi and the big lawyers who've explained them. I will say that common sense leads us to understand when the elections take place that the electorate will reflect its will in the new Parliament and that it will decide on the substance of the arrangements. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Aristides Baltas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the revision of the Constitution after a long consultation which took place, with the responsibility of Professor Spourdalakis, who unfortunately did not become more familiar with the media we have and the public debate and the public space we have. I mean, starting with the fact that we are drafting today - it is important that, instead of the substance, the terms of operation of our state, the terms of operation of that country's culture. Today we are drafting this after wide consultation and perhaps it is important to see what exactly this is today, that is, at which political juncture we are compiling this framework. The previous debate in this House, which was of great importance, was the debate on the Prespecies Agreement. There have been great contradictions, major problems - I do not want to go into this - but I would like to link, with an argument that goes back to time, the importance of the Presidencies Agreement with the importance of today's debate on the revision of the Constitution. I'm starting with old times. In the 17th and 18th centuries there was the Enlightenment with its many wings, which changed Europe’s image in substance. This movement of ideas has led to the major urban revolutions, English, American and French, and has also changed politically in this sense the whole framework of previous royal-centered regimes. Then came the Holy Alliance, as we know. What they tried to break on the substance, for the first time on the scale of Europe, with our Revolution of 1821 that relied on the oldest hopes, created the Philatelic movement and brought Greece and its struggle at that time at the heart of the political debate of the time. However, the progress of the liberated, in the way it was made, did not follow the hopes of the struggles of the people in 1821. A foreign monarchy came here because it was thought that the Greeks could not identify themselves, build their own institutions and elect their own supreme rulers. And the country has since followed a long course, some moments with its large parts, but also with many painful periods, such as wars, dictatorships, overthrows of democratic conquests, etc. The climate of these two centuries created, I'd say, a feeling of intolerance. There were hopes that were disproved, there was a feeling that our struggles are at some point leading up, but at the same time some people come along and disprove those hopes. The process of national unification has also been slow. That is, it took about two centuries to complete, as it was completed. In this context, therefore, a wide range of forms of such intolerance have been developed. On these feelings of intolerance began to appear ideologies, and political forces that supported these ideologies, which were related to patriocape, to the sibling nation, with conspiracies that dominate national life, with an idea that was diffused that we, because we have a long history - which we do have as Greeks - are jealous of us and do not want to relive it, etc. So, one picture quite widespread, porcupine. I mean, we're the ones who we are, we've got the story we've got, others are envying us and others are jealous of us. To God, do not open up to new horizons, do not make real areas that will bring Greece into dialogue with its own specificities, of course, with the rest of the world. That is what I think the Prespecies Agreement is answering. The Prespecies Agreement, if you want to see it in such a historical dimension, what it says is: We do not have problems with our neighbours, we do not have problems with our identity because we have confidence in our identity, we have as a nation, if you want, confidence in our identity and we are open to dialogue and debate with every neighbour of our people, even with those who at times of our previous history have been faced. In other words, the Prespecies Agreement is changing the climate. Because sometimes to change such climates that have long history need real political areas. So the Prespecies Agreement is a real political branch that wants to change this climate. And here are the two issues, the Prespecies Agreement and the Constitutional Review. How do they connect? Constitutional Review we are doing today, I repeat, and only two years later, in 2021, we are celebrating the two hundred years precisely since the Revolution of 1821. The House will finally decide on the revision of the Constitution in the same year, essentially, that we will be celebrating these two hundred years. So in the House of Reform and with the provisions of the Constitution, we must measure how Greece gains its confidence and, in some areas where it lacks, issues of democratic rights at least, the same as the other countries of Europe. Maybe better. And so, finally, because time does not allow it - I will say two words for two of these articles, and I could refer to more. Article 3 speaks of the state's neutrality in relation to religion, without apparently ignoring the contribution of Orthodoxy to the previous history. But the neutrality of the state means not only passively unreserved religion, but also active neutrality, that is, protection of all other doctrines, of all other religions, of atheism and so on. Absolutely related to this issue is the political oath. Because our fellow citizen may become Prime Minister, Minister, or whatever you want, without being Orthodox. This means active religious neutrality. I don't have any more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u191	Thank you. Mr George-Dimitrios Karras has the floor from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, in my opinion the debate on constitutional revision raised another issue. It highlighted the deficit in the Constitution's strength during the time of the crisis. And that was a theoretical, but also a practical matter. Why am I saying it? As long as we are in a deep economic and social crisis, the Constitution as the supreme law of the state must meet the requirements of times, even if they are disturbed. The current constitution - and I am talking about the main body of 1975 - was indeed a good constitution for that time. Sadly, however, on the road with bold amendments, revisions, he failed to understand the messages of the times. And we reached the economic and social crisis of 2009-2019, where - even if it refers to exiting the memoranda - the consequences of the terms, the consequences of the commitments remain and it seems that the country cannot deal with them. We are therefore discussing today a proposal for a constitutional review which has important issues, such as the responsibility of the ministers, the immunity of Members, the question of the election of the President of the Republic or the dissolution of the House. But, you know, the proposal has a deficit. It has a deficit in social and individual rights. It does not seem that due attention has been paid to those provisions which can truly shield the Greek society, the political life of the place from the possibility and the consequences of another major crisis, which can never be ruled out in modern conditions, especially in Greece, which lives between deterioration and incorporation, not only today - I will not count today - but many times during its history. So we think that particular attention should be paid to social and individual rights as well. And we had to pay particular attention to education and health. Of course, there is a great debate on Article 16, whether or not we should have private higher education. We will see how the Constitutional Review will proceed. Of course, in my own personal opinion, I do not expect it to develop. I do not expect it to develop for the reason that it is election year. Other thoughts will prevail. The government itself did not convince us that its intention was to bring a deep section or even a section. He only convinced us that he was opening up and closing the issue of constitutional revision according to the political context of the moment, something that we are living in today in the Chamber. When the proposals of the parties came for debate, it attempted to do so very soon, with a reduction in the Members' right to speak and develop their positions. In any case, however, there has been a small regular retreat from the Bureau. I do not, however, think that at the two and a half meetings - even though they said that it is of a long duration - it is either humanely possible from the services or from the Members. Anyway, we'll move on. However, I would like to say something else on this point, because I mentioned earlier that the resistance of the Constitution, the resilience of the constitution during the crisis, was not proven. And at the moment we are losing the opportunity with a constitutional review to give this strength for the future, for possible crises of the future. So I took the initiative and with colleagues from the Change Movement, the Democratic Integration, we sought the day-to-day problem. Do you know what the topical problem of the days is? Protection of first residence. Whether we want it or not, government-banker games are being played. So the famous law on the protection of first residence, for civil insolvency ends. Today we read in the press today that the banks are saying but the government says. The Deputy Prime Minister says the banks will be recapitalised. This means that it threatens the depositors, threatens the shareholders, but it really does not threaten them. It threatens borrowers, those who have red loans and do not have the opportunity to respond. This is a threat which threatens intensifiedly and indirectly because they want to bring, as it turns out, a law - I have not seen it - which will not protect the first residence, at least the size and the level and the duration that has been protected up to now. With the delay in giving justice, four years of peace courtesy have passed. They said they're moving on to the appointments of secretaries and peacekeepers. Peacekeepers come here to the House and tell us they're from the '14 competition and they haven't appointed them yet. That's what they tell us. So what happens in this case? We must now find a way through the Constitution to protect the first residence for the reason that it will be left to its fate. Mr Drasakis not only threatens borrowers by pressing the banks, but he also loaded them with a debt that has not yet been revealed. He made a provision and voted for it by the majority last summer, in June 2018. What was that arrangement saying? If the application for protection is rejected, regardless of whether it is fraudulent or unpaid by the borrower, interest on late payment will be retroactively charged for the duration of the delay. He increased the loan by at least 50% compared to what he would have paid if he hadn't relied on the court. So they're punishing the borrower now and why he went to court! So you understand how this state works. He'll pay 50% more expensive interest, because he went and asked for the protection of the court! That's not my word. They're registered, they're legal interventions by the government. I shall be brief, Mr President. So what did we propose? Article 21 of the Constitution gives a vote to protect the first residence. It says that the State must ensure that there are minimum housing conditions for those who are deprived or poorly resident. What are we asking? One - I want it to be accepted - a permanent institutional law supplementing Article 21 and making it compulsory for the state to exercise its responsibility, competence, to ensure that the red borrower, even the unemployed, is resident. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall give another example and end in 20 seconds, Mr President. When the Occupational Housing Agency was abolished, the 1% resource on private-law pay was not abolished. He's going to the OAED. For four years, OAED has been in charge of the settlements of their work residence. It's not over. The apartments have been booked to the beneficiaries. They can't get them and they're deceived. And the OAED has cumulated 1 billion, which has led the Bank of Greece to provide a pillow. So will these be the policies that the government ensures? I think that in the Constitutional Review we should cover even what may not seem too high politically, but they are practical issues that will alleviate and solve problems and give rise to economic development. Otherwise, we're vain!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u193	Mrs. Panayota Kozombol has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis and the measures taken to deal with it have seriously affected democracy and social rights. At the same time, the constitutionally guaranteed criminal treatment of political persons violates the principle of equality and impairs citizens' confidence in the institutions of representation and in the political system. The need to heal these wounds and restore the credibility of the political system requires the strengthening and shielding of democracy, the expansion of popular participation in democratic functions and the protection of individual and social rights. It requires all this to be done by the attacks of neoliberalism. To achieve these objectives, it is necessary to promote the necessary progressive sections that SYRIZA's proposal ranks on four axes which have been adequately analysed by our general and special rapporteurs. The SYRIZA, in its proposal, does not propose a revision of the provisions relating to judicial authority, Article 88 et seq. of the Constitution. The New Democracy, invoking the immunity of the independence of justice, proposes a ban on the participation of judiciary officials in the government or in political positions for three years after they have left the House, the choice of the supreme leadership of justice by a parliamentary committee among older judges, the reform of disciplinary authority to judicial officers. I shall be brief on them. The judicial inconsistency provided for in Article 89 of the Constitution is intended to defend the objective impartiality of the judges by preventing the development of relationships which may give rise to conflicts of interest. In that sense, the above article provides for projects adopted as being incompatible with the capacity of the judiciary in order to ensure the unaffected performance of his duties in all respects. It is clear that in the case of retirement there is no need for the critical condition for the protection of which the incompatibility, that of the unaffected performance of the duties has been established. Therefore, the New Democracy proposal for an extension of three years after the retirement of the judiciary is unjustified and we do not think it should be adopted. The power, now, of the Minister of Justice to exercise disciplinary action against judicial officers is justified by the need to balance public functions. The proposal of the New Democracy implying the abolition of the disciplinary authority of the Minister of Justice and the introduction of the absolute disciplinary self-control of the judiciary actually tends to abolish the balance of institutions and to create an essentially ruthless authority. It should be noted here that the powers of disciplinary action are only the starting point of disciplinary control. The substance of the case shall be judged by the disciplinary board composed by a majority of senior judicial or regular judges, while the lower judicial officers shall be deemed to be hierarchical. Therefore, this regulation does not mean that judicial independence is affected. Now, with regard to the different choice of the supreme leadership of justice, many proposals have been put forward by the parties and by the judiciary associations without any agreement between these proposals. Indeed, the current way of choosing the supreme leadership of justice has not produced the best results. However, there has not been an integrated proposal that could work better. We believe that, in this particular way of choosing the supreme leadership of justice, the principle of separation of powers and the personal and functional independence of judicial officers could be ensured. When? If it is ensured, i.e. if it is respected and the principle of legality is respected. If justice respects the principle of legality and does not grant it for the sake of feasibility, any vulnerability points in the current way of choosing the leadership of justice shall be balanced. The recent case of NOVARTIS has raised problems in dealing with the principle of legality by politicians and I am explaining. Greek legislation in 2011 introduced the prosecutor's institution and inquisitor to corruption in order to provide special know-how and technical assistance to investigate large corruption cases, while in 2014 the institution of the protected witnesses of the public interest was introduced. Both of the institutions that I referred to in this case were slandered and slandered by the politicians who adopted them. Judges as well as witnesses were slandered, sued and threatened. I am finishing on this matter with the fact that as long as legality declines in favour of feasibility, no way of choosing the supreme leadership of justice does defend the personal and functional independence of judicial officers. I shall oppose our disagreement with the proposal for Article 94, the abolition of the procedural prerogatives of the public, as well as the proposal to strengthen the Court of Auditors' audit powers, because there is no need to amend the powers of this court to the detriment of its jurisdictions, because it will alter its nature. And to go on the road to our proposal for the independent authorities. This proposal includes three interventions. Firstly, to limit the possibility for the joint legislator to establish independent authorities. We're putting an increased majority. At the same time, they are being upgraded and qualitatively, because their democratic legitimacy will be increased, a hundred and eighty Members are required to establish them against the hundreds of one that is currently in force. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. In this proposal, the independent authorities can only be established by a law passed by an increased three-fifths of the total number of Members. The second is to facilitate their formation. Not four fifths, but three fifths. This is where the New Democracy agrees. And thirdly, our third proposal is better parliamentary control of independent authorities. We know it's an assignment of responsibilities. These powers could also be exercised by the state, if it were rule of law. It has therefore allocated these neutral zones, as they have been designated. It has to be more controlled. Today's audit is inadequate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u195	Thank you. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Revision of the Constitution must meet two parameters. The first parameter is linked to the direction it has, progressively or conservatively, since the Review is not ideologically and politically neutral, as is all the political problems since by definition they are at stake. The second parameter is linked to the requirements of the juncture, because the revision is not done and is never promoted in vacant. The context is that the country has come out of the memoranda and strict supervision after many years of crisis and memorial policies. As a consequence, having gained considerable scope for autonomy, she can develop policies which are also ideological - political. On the basis of these parameters, the revision of the Constitution serves the need for changes in the face of critical decisions to be taken both in our country and in Europe that will determine their future. I will focus, on account of time, on three issues which, in my view, identify the progressive nature of the SYRIZA proposal. They concern strengthening democracy through the expansion of public participation, the reconstruction of the social state through the enrichment of social rights and the safeguarding of regional cohesion through the conduct of specific policies for the less-favoured regions of the country, mountainous and island regions. Today democracy, which operates under globalisation, in an environment of rapid technological change and the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few, shows signs of fatigue. They are constantly being removed from the field of democratic political controversy. At the same time, various entities, such as some independent authorities, often impose policies that are even presented as a one-way or a necessity. In addition, principles included in the Constitution appear in practice empty content, lacking substance. The principle of popular sovereignty is limited to the election of representatives either for Parliament or at regional and municipal level. This is because the wider environment does not favour the essential involvement of the people. The legislative initiative belongs to the House, mainly, or rather exclusively to the government, because of the appointed Members in the majority of Parliament. It is therefore proposed that the legislative initiative should also be attributed to the citizens, in such a way as to recognise the possibility for hundreds of thousands of citizens who have the right to vote on proposals for legislation, which will be introduced into this House for discussion, preparation and voting. This reduces the structural deficits of representation, the participation of citizens is not only limited to the rights of election and election, but also extends to the recognition of participatory rights. In this way, the politicisation and participation of citizens in the public are strengthened. This proposal is not an alternative to representative democracy, but an additional one, since the legitimacy of power is strengthened by the active intervention of the folk. In addition, in the same direction, the strengthening of popular participation, both the introduction of the simple proportional system as a permanent electoral system and the proposal for a referendum on a popular initiative and the proposal for an obligation to ratify by a referendum of an international treaty which provides for restrictions on the exercise of national sovereignty. So democracy itself is institutionally strengthened and the representative system itself, and the principle of popular sovereignty becomes essential. Ladies and gentlemen, in contrast to individual freedoms, social rights constitute an important element of the social state. The introduction of social rights is linked to the fact that the social majority does not have access to basic goods, as the financially powerful are managed and fruitful of the wealth produced. Thus, social rights are the expression of the fundamental right in the life of ordinary, average human beings and aim to ensure that the majority of the social majority participates equally in economic and social life as much as possible. The provision and recognition of social rights are guaranteed rights, but also objective legal principles, which is why they are directed not only at individuals and collective entities, but also at the state which is obliged to act in specific directions and pursue policies with specific content. Indicatively and in this case, the workplaces, social security, education, health and other social goods in which the State is legalised to have the first or dominant role in order to protect the public interest are activated. It makes it imperative that social rights should be given a legal commitment beyond the political declaration. At the heart of SYRIZA's proposal to strengthen the protection of social rights are important interventions which strengthen their binding status. It is proposed that the constitutional guarantee of a decent level of living for all through universal social services and income support be guaranteed. This proposed provision on which a general right to social welfare is founded is supplemented by reference to the special protection to be granted to the family, marriage, maternity, children, young people, the elderly, disabled persons and the needy. In addition, it is proposed that the institutional upgrading of the right to health, which is explicitly recognised as a social right and not simply a state duty to care, resulting from the State’s obligation to provide universal access to effective health benefits. By adding a new provision, it is proposed that public control of basic social goods, such as water, electricity and their distribution networks, should be guaranteed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, it is proposed that the articles relating to work, which, during the period of the Memorandum of Understanding, had the greatest influence, resulting in its complete deregulation, should be strengthened. In particular, arrangements are proposed for the general terms of employment and, in addition, for the collective autonomy of free collective bargaining and collective agreements, for the application and unilaterally for the arbitration procedure, for the provision of the principle of more favourable treatment for workers, etc. And I come to something last. It is well known that in our country, ladies and gentlemen, apart from social inequalities, there are also major regional disparities which are mainly reflected in mountain and island regions. These disadvantaged areas due to their distance and difficult access from and from the centre, demographic ageing and their generally desertification are not always easily addressed to general government policies and need special treatment to stay alive. By reducing or eliminating regional disparities, their overall economic and social development can ultimately be achieved. In this context and the proposal for positive regional development policies of a specific nature. For the smooth and uninterrupted functioning of public administration in the mountain and island regions, which require their adaptation to the specific characteristics and conditions of these regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Papaliou, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u198	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the prevalence of neoliberal ideas and neoliberalism has led to the idea that there is a unique economic proposal and a solution at all levels, which is invested in a technology-based cloak that appears neutral. This policy has led to the prevalence of the markets in politics and society. He is addressing and supporting the interests of the economic elite. On the other hand, progressive policy supports the interests of the large social majority, which invest in public goods and in the social state.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u199	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u200	I shall conclude, Mr President. In this context, the Revision of the Constitution provides an opportunity to institutionalise the possibilities of enrichment of democracy and of popular participation, the reconstruction of the social state, the safeguarding of regional cohesion. This progressive direction runs SYRIZA's proposal for a constitutional review in contrast to the proposal of the neoliberal proposals of Officerial Responsibility, the constitutionalisation of neoliberalism and the rejection of proposals that enhance democracy, the social state and guarantee regional cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u201	Thank you. Mr Evangelos Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have had the opportunity to point out at the beginning of this procedure, in the debate that took place in plenary when it was decided to set up the Revision Committee of the Constitution, this is a rare and top-level procedure which belongs to the Parliament's exclusive competence, individual and individual Members of Parliament who are involved in this process, having, as must, a knowledge of the history and the particular weight of his vote, because the revision of the Constitution is not an amendment to a common law, it is a change in the country's regulatory charter that regulates the crucial relationship between the juncture and history. Because, as we say very often, democracy is periodic, it is timely, it is based on the constant expression of the popular will, but there are restrictions on the expression of that will. In majority voting, these restrictions relate to minority rights, minorities, individuals and social groups. There is, therefore, a legal text that conquers modernity, the Constitution, the strict and written constitution, the product of the two major revolutions of the 18th century, the French and the American revolution, which offers this beneficial guarantee to the functioning of a democratic system of governance and regulates the relationship of democracy and the rule of law with history, with long time. This is all based on the strictness of the Constitution, which is now, with the initiation of the review process, being placed under sect. That is why we need the greatest attention to ensure that accidents do not occur during this transitional period of the Review, which is a period of'record' to the strict character of the Constitution. That is why every constitution of a European, continental, such as ours, lays down very strict conditions for a review of consensus in order to prevent the extreme risk to democracy and the rule of law, which is the risk of constitutional populism, of bias, of mystic perception of the Constitution and its Review. These conditions of the review consensus are, of course, primarily social and political, related to climate, atmosphere and political culture. And, unfortunately, we are going through a period of dramatic and miserable in this respect, a period of decline. We see the problems that exist in the functioning of the House, in the functioning of the institution of the political parties, the problems that exist in the role of Members, we see the unreliableness of those who are going on at the political stage, but in addition we see some people rejoicing about it, some people using parliamentary procedures as a lever to solve micro-party problems. And, of course, I am referring to the governmental majority. That is why, apart from the prerequisites for social and political policies, which unfortunately do not exist, the conditions for legal and institutional matters are important. The Constitution demands an increased majority on the revision of the Constitution, i.e. forced consensus between the parties, between the government and the opposition, presupposes the intervention of the electorate, the test of the present correlation of parliamentary forces before the electorate. It also provides for the participation of two Bulgarians in this process, and there must also be a period of maturity of five years in order not to make unreasonable use of the process of revision of the Constitution. This prevents us from the risk of easy constitutional rhetoric or easy constitutional tactics, from creating to the people, the illusion that everything can be solved through the Revision of the Constitution, that all the gaps, shortcomings, the weaknesses of the political system, the weaknesses of society, the weaknesses of justice, the weaknesses of public administration, the weaknesses of the business world, and even the weaknesses of society itself will be solved by magic through the Revision of the Constitution. Instead of emiting this false and dangerous message, we should now have debated the Revision of the Constitution, following the experience of the last ten years of the fiscal and development crisis, discussing the top issue, which is the resistance shown by the Constitution to major economic, social and political pressures, but also the lack of provisions relating to so-called fiscal awareness, namely mechanisms to warn the rulers, the parliament and the public of opinion about the progress of budgetary matters and the risk of derailment that the people are finally paying him, the weaker are finally paying him, the country's economy is finally paying him, because the nation is losing sovereignty and equality within the European Union and within the euro area. These rules of budgetary awareness do not only concern the government and the legislator, the political institutions, but also concern the judge, who, by exercising judicial control over the constitutionality of laws, must also be aware of the financial framework, the possibilities, the risks and do not think that he can, in a purely legal way, resolve issues relating to the economy and, indeed, the economy at a European or global level, that is, even the attitude of the markets themselves. The Review also cannot be interpreted as meaning that the major consensual 2001 review, which has provided the place with huge regulatory deposits, which are largely still untapped. For example, in the chapter of social, individual and civil rights, in the chapter of group rights and rights of group action, in the chapter of modern threats to the information society, in the chapter of problems of bioethics and technology, in the chapter of the digital age and of digital rights and threats, the Greek Constitution is the most comprehensive internationally thanks to the 2001 revision. In fact, there is no need for anything more in these matters. There simply needs to be economic and financial conditions for implementation, the legislator needs to use the Constitution and the judge should also come to correct and complement the legislator in the direction of protecting rights. After all, we are not talking about reviewing a classic sovereign constitution of the 19th or early 20th century. We are talking about the revision of a constitution of a Member State subject to huge international and European restrictions. Because next to the Constitution is European Union law, International Law for the Protection of Human Rights, in particular the European Convention on Human Rights, alongside the case law of the Greek courts is the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the European Court of Human Rights, the Constitution itself, national, subject to international judicial control by the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, sometimes the national review legislator is vain, because there are international levels of protection of rights, international levels of environmental protection, international levels of protection of economic governance, which the national review legislator cannot violate. On the contrary, the national constitution must be interpreted in accordance with European Union law and in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights. That is why we have a radical change in the interpretation of Article 14(9) for the so-called 'basic shareholder' in the media, and that is why we also have a radical change in the regulatory content of Article 16(8) of the Constitution to ban the establishment of higher schools by individuals, because European law requires every country - member to operate the other twenty-seven education systems in the other twenty-seven Member States. The debate on Article 16 is therefore an old-fashioned debate within the framework of European Union law and the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on these matters. As you can see, under the present circumstances there is absolutely no point in discussing the revision of Article 110 itself, which has three structural elements: the increased majority, the intervention of the electorate and the time-limit for an hour, which no one can touch, because if these elements are affected, the strictness of the Constitution is affected. There are, of course, issues that belong to the so-called atabism of the Left in Greece, such as relations between the State and the Church. The debate we have had in the Constitutional Review Committee has shown that it is sufficient to make a point of reference in Article 3 on State-Church relations, an interpretative statement which I have proposed since 2006, which will make it clear that prevailing religion is not official state religion, but descriptively the religion of the majority of society, and that Article 3 in no way justifies exceptions or deviations from Article 13, religious freedom and religious equality. Furthermore, Article 3 protects the Ecumenical Patriarchate as an international legal personality and the relationship between the Greek state and the Ecumenical Patriarchate. It protects the special legal regimes of the new areas, Crete, the Dodecanese. And Article 105 of the special status of Mount Athos. The government is still playing with this, as was shown by today's proposals to renew the notorious Prime Minister's agreement with the Archbishop. This agreement by Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Jeronymou now seemed to be an agreement that has only one purpose: to create the false impression that ten thousand posts for recruitment are vacant in the public interest, which I doubt whether it can be accepted, but the uncertainty about the daily clergy is maintained when his payroll is a product of the state's grant to a special church fund and is not a personal relationship between the pastor and the state to which he has a wage claim as a religious employee. Of course, now it seemed that the top issue suddenly becomes someone else. Neither the universities nor the relations between the State and the Church, but the election of the President of the Republic. Because the initiative of the Officerial Vice-President to say "I am voting for SYRIZA's proposal to disconnect the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic from the threat of the dismantling of the House" has led to the emergence of the problem that we will see tomorrow morning in an intervening debate, as the President of Parliament said today, if the second Parliament is bound by the directions of the first. We will explain tomorrow that this theory of commitment leads to legal and pragmatic irrationality. But now the decision by the Officerial Representation raises this issue and I expect to see the reactions of the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Venizelo, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u204	Our position is too clear. No provision should be drawn up by more than one hundred and fifty votes, that is, practically more than seventy-nine votes in this House. All the provisions must be processed and decided by the next Parliament, after the elections, after the election, with an increased majority of eighty Members, in order to maintain the strictness of the Constitution. In addition, eighty-eight votes are needed for the election of a President of the Republic, from a new Parliament, from a new majority, within another climate of democracy and the parliamentary culture. The proposal to revise the parliamentary majority has not ultimately accepted and has not included any of the proposals relating to crucial issues in the field in which the Constitution has the real initiative and cannot have it in common law, which is the field of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Venizelo, you've been through all 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u206	I shall conclude, Mr President. There are no proposals to go to the next House for discussion, in relation to the control of constitutionality and in relation to the choice of the leadership of justice. This is a very big gap, which we will have the opportunity to discuss from various steps, but it is nonetheless a disability of this process. We had the opportunity to discuss everything in the Committee on Review. The issues relating to the electoral system, the vote on the results, the referendums, the dissolution of the House, the functioning of the House, the responsibility of the ministers, parliamentary immunity, justice, self-government, the independent authorities. But none of this is unresolved without a Constitution revision. The problem of the country is not constitutional. The country's problem has shown itself to be a deep political one since the last few years, it is developmental. If the conditions are met for political change, then the interpretation and application of the Constitution will be done in another way, in a progressive, effective way, driving for the country. It can give the country real prospects, but through the implementation of a national reconstruction plan for progressive, consensual, practical and practicable. The Revision of the Constitution does not replace the need for the country to have an integrated national reconstruction and reconstruction plan. That's what we suggest, that's what the place wants, that's our country's priority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u207	Let's give Aleka Papariga the floor, and then we'll continue on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u209	Here you go. What question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u210	After we've finished the procedure, will you let us know when the intervening debate is going to take place?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u211	I don't know. I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u212	Regardless of the advertising campaigns made by the parties around the importance of constitutional review, one of the main objectives, perhaps the central one, is to ensure the stability of the political system through stable governments that do not stop their lives either for the President of the Republic, for another matter, or for the temporary disappearance of the parliamentary majority, etc. The question is: is this stability of the political system and this preaching of the importance of the stability of the political system being addressed? First of all, in our opinion, it is addressed to the people. They say to the people that "Look to see, we will do everything we can to have stable governments, stable political system...", we call it an urban political system, barbaric, classic, exploiting, "... but you also need to take your measures. You must be afraid of governmental, political instability." We, on the other hand, tell the people that you must not be afraid of it. In terms of a movement, of course, rather than the terms of the SYRIZA Government, with representation, through the polls or through the referendums, without even underestimating the importance of the election campaign as a major political campaign. On the contrary, the people must, with their struggle, with their counter-response, with the exacerbation, as we say, of class struggle, succeed not only in governance but, more generally, in the political system, in turning it into unstable, because only then can it be brought under the horror that it will provoke - because it will not cause - to have concessions, perhaps to impose conquests and, of course, to draw it on the road as far as possible to its radical overthrow. So you have this position and the prevention element. Of course, today the working people's movement is not the same as demands for various reasons. However, you know very well from your experience - because how to do it, the urban order of Greece has long experience, as has been exploited by the ever longer European experience - that many times where the stagnation was taking place, where there was inertia, fear and frustration, preconditions were created to shine the movement, counter-attack, popular uprising. What do you think? In the possession that we are all talking about the movement of the National Resistance, we say that '40 was not the same as '41, '42 was not the same as '41, '43 was not the same as '42. Or if you want to take the dictatorship period. Who waited in '67, in '68, in '69 a riot like took place at the Polytechnic or other local riots? So all this philology by all the parties for political stability also has the element of prevention and fear. But I would be unfair to you if I stood only on this matter. This is something else that the people must take very seriously, so that they can understand that they must take advantage of the difficulties of the system and not happen to pit their problems and wounds. Here now, the system itself - the institutions of the European Union, not the political bodies, its economic staff, the global economic staff, etc. - is not going to repeat it, there is a whole list - it is aware of deadlocks which the capitalist system has in Europe and globally, and even without the popular movement in Europe yet being able to make use of them and counter-attack them. There are huge contradictions. Of course, the political system in our country is well established and only the people can overturn it. For example, in the Constitutional Review there are articles that remain unaware of, they do not change at all. I don't remember all the constitutions now. They may have had a different position, but there are articles that are actually unarmed, immobile. Not to tell you that the 1975 Constitution in force today, together with the revisions, at its core is the same as the Constitution of 1864, 1911, 1952, 1975. Of course, the throne left, yes, because it was overtaken because it was blocking the urban political system. On the substance, however, it remains. But it's even more armored. Take the following articles, for example: Article 48, on the siege of the siege, Articles 27 and 28. The siege of siege exists as an article with other formalities since 1833 and concerned internal risk rather than foreign, foreign. The siege is that when there is a risk, even an external risk, the action of the political parties for a month - then again and again - of the trade unions and mass organisations is abolished. We are going to have to do something about it, and we are going to have to do something about it. Really? In circumstances, i.e. where the territorial integrity of the country is at risk, the action of the people is being abolished. You did not want to add an article to this article 48 which says that it has the right of the government to impose ports, airports, to take steps where there are foreign military bases and we do not know how their owners will operate against him - I will not call it - which makes military intervention in Greece and say "I will check them". There are huge food warehouses and other means. They check them so the Greek people don't get hungry. There is no such thing in the Revision of the Constitution. There is only a ban on the political action of the people. Therefore, Article 120 - the old 114 for which there were many demonstrations - means that the patriotism of the Greeks means that when the interests of capitalists are at stake, then the people must go to save them. And if he doesn't do that, any action will be banned. It's typical. Take Articles 27 and 28. I'll tell you what. These articles, like the whole Constitution, are made with some neutral expressions. Neutrality, after all, is what you want. Behind the neutral is everything. The priority of international law, the powers of international transnational associations to intervene directly within the country and to define things if there is no harmonisation within the country, etc. Do you know what that means? It means the right to military intervention in Greece if the interests of the ruling class are threatened. And don't tell me you don't know that! But it's been signed. The new NATO structure, which was signed, if I am not mistaken, by a government of Simitis - and, of course, no one said 'no' to them and neither do you question it - has changed the following thing: that NATO has the right to send troops within the Member State, if NATO interests are threatened, or if the logic of NATO interests at national level, namely against the people, is at stake. The same applies to the European Parliament. Here the UN has decided to allow NATO to intervene wherever it wants, while earlier when the Cold War was in place, namely the confrontation of capitalism and socialism, there was an article that said that only with NATO's agreement could some intervention be done. We are now living in Venezuela, which is not a member of an alliance bound by commitments. So what is the SYRIZA government doing differently than the previous governments? On the contrary, what you have done is to shield the urban political system, adding the left - with introductory or non-important - with introductory or non-important terms - fear that if we conflict, if we are outside NATO or the European Union, we will go and get lost. That, of course, is what the governments of all the Member States say, even the most powerful. The ones who might make Brexit or leave, they go to other imperialist alliances. Therefore, the Constitution will become more authoritarian, more reactionary. I shall refer to another matter. It is no coincidence that you say that with the changes in the Constitution you are achieving the representation of the people. We are talking about popular sovereignty, people's power. Other representation and other authority. No relationship. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. The more polls, the more the Greek people are represented. But all these years that the Greek people have really done, that is to say, defines the representatives, what has they seen? And I'm not just talking about the memorial period. I'm talking about before. There have been referendums like what Zafe did with the question 'Do you want to join the European Union and NATO under this name or not'. There is also the great phrase of Zafe, which says 'NATO and the European Union mean money'. Yeah, we'll agree. Mr Venizelos, from his side, developed this, the sovereignty of international law. But what is International Law? That's where our differences begin, Mr. Venizelo. I would also like to tell you about previous speakers, even in the 1970s and 1980s, but the Helsinki Treaty was forbidden to change borders. It's International Law that allows attachments, fragmented countries, war, everything. What International Law can Greece rely on? We therefore call on the Greek people not just to question this political system, not only to be afraid of its deterioration, but to seek to overthrow it. I'll say one last. Nationalism, chauvinism, racism, etc. They're generations of this system. They are, if you like, forms of expression of the unrelenting competitions that exist between parts of the bourgeois class or between the ruling classes. So, nationalism in Europe or the protectionism of Trump is outside the system? Really? The nationalists, let us say, of northern Macedonia - so we have to say it, that is her name - are against the capitalist system, against NATO and the European Union? The same applies to Greek nationalists. These are generations of the system itself and at some point, when they are not too powerful, they are very convenient - for the system, for the right - anti-fascist fronts, that is, for the reproduction of false separatist lines. Finally, you did not have the daring to separate the Church from the State. You didn't even have that daring. The new Republic is addressed to a more traditional audience. She also thinks of the extreme right-wing sections that may cut her votes, because I do not believe that younger people in New Democracy are in favour of the non-separation of the State and the Church. That's not a revolutionary slogan. You don't even do that. You're talking about forming relationships between State and Church. It needs a complete separation. To make political marriage compulsory. Another thing is if he wants to do religious. However, it is only legal that this should be the case. That's not even what you can do. In Article 16, if you were consistent with your position, you should abolish all private schools, from kindergartens and nurseries to all that is present. And AEI, private shops you've done, private business. Literally! The fact that they're state-run, we're not telling us anything. So all you care about is that you shield the urban political system from the recovery and counter-attack of the popular movement. Look, you can't make it. The movement may have made many years of abdomen, but things don't stay real estate. And in these cases it will be much more forgiving and much more dangerous for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and two teachers attending from the 1st Gymnasium Tripolis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Mavrota, I'd like your patience for one, two minutes. Before I give you the floor, Mr Katrugalos wanted to announce something in his agreement with the other Members of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been assigned by the President-in-Office to formulate our proposal on how the vote will be organised tomorrow. We met the general rapporteurs and unanimously reached three points, and in a quarter we found inconsistent. I'm reading it to you, as we've come up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u215	The fourth was found to be disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u216	That is what I said, in the fourth, there was disagreement. I read them exactly as they are: The rapporteurs-general agree and propose that the vote should be taken by means of separate votes per proposed parliamentary group or group of Members, which has raised fifty signatures. In this vote each Member shall be placed on a 'yes', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no'. Secondly, by 12.00 p.m. tomorrow, 13 February, each Parliamentary Group or Group of Proposed Members will table the ballot with its proposals to the Bureau of Parliament. Thirdly, each Member may vote on all of the articles of each ballot in his own right. Fourthly, differing views were expressed as to whether there should be direction in the proposal and whether the direction is binding. I just want to say that I find it very positive that we have been able to have a unanimous motion of procedure. It shows a general consensual climate that seems to prevail in the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u218	I should like to inform you at the same time that today's sitting will be closed at about 1 00, so that as many speakers as possible the list can be exhausted. Mr. Loverdos, I would suggest that it was put forward as well by Mr. Katrugalo that there was a consensus on three points, I don't know if the fourth for which you obviously want to mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u219	I will not go into that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u220	If everyone wishes, the Bureau will have to give the floor to all the rapporteurs. But for an economy of time, not to take time from the speakers too, so I ask if the rapporteurs need not intervene so much...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u221	I need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u222	Is that enough for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u223	Yes, of course. Indeed, there are three issues which we agreed on and one which we disagreed on. I do not want to say anything about that. It is simply because, if you listened carefully, by 12 noon tomorrow, the groups and the group of Members who have fifty signatures to put forward proposals, suggest to Mr Voutsis and tell us today that the intervening debate on guidelines will take place at 12 noon, that is to say, once the draft proposals of the parties and the group of Members have been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u224	Since this morning there has been this loose end you've been putting on now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u225	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u226	That's obviously tomorrow, I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u227	Because, we said tomorrow and it might have been understood by tomorrow morning, it's better until 12 noon...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u228	By 1,00' we'll go tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u229	No, I'm saying one more thing. After 12.00 p.m. tomorrow at noon, the parliamentary and parliamentary groups will have to testify to take place immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u230	Good, Mr. Loverdo. The Bureau will see it and announce it in good time. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Mavrotas, an Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. In the seven minutes of my speech, I'm going to stay the most important ones. The constitutional review process is carried out in a charged political climate. The political system, on the occasion of the latest developments in the House, has lost a large part of its credibility, and it is a great opportunity with the constitutional review to overthrow this disgrace somehow. It is an opportunity to show that we can consent to five things, to improve for the benefit of society and the country and move forward further. But there is a danger that can overthrow it all. Who? To vote for some of the revised provisions, to pass to the next House and precisely because there have not been any others that are proposed by the present Census - call me Article 16 - to "burn" the Review as the next government. And what does it mean to burn? To cancel it, so that the five-year time imposed by Article 110 does not begin to count. If, therefore, SYRIZA really believes that certain provisions should be changed, such as Article 86, the law on the liability of ministers, should be passed on to the revised provisions and Article 110 proposed by the New Democracy. Rule 110 - I recall - refers to how the Review takes place. So if it becomes more flexible, it can save the Review. If, for example, as we and New Democracy are proposing, the five-year freeze is mentioned only for the revised provisions and not for the entire Constitution, as now, it facilitates the individual change of provisions. So the New Democracy will not have an alibi to block the Review in the next House because it will not contain Article 16. It will be possible in its own review to put it together with anyone else that has not been proposed in this Review. Article 110, therefore, is the key to the review. And if you want, colleagues of the SYRIZA, to move forward and you don't just want to prey for another ten years on changes that need to be made, we need to change it. Another article on which a lot of talk has been made is Rule 32, which leads to the removal of the presidential election from the dissolution of the House. This decommissioning is right. It will give a political stability signal that the economy needs so much. I would like to see all the parties in the democratic arch if I understood it correctly. Only the way is changed, how, in the final vote, the President will be elected, that is to say, if he or she is to be elected by a qualified majority, by an enlarged electorate or by the people. For Article 16 I have said it a thousand times, I told the committee where I rejected SYRIZA's allegations of continuing to ban the establishment of non-state universities. The possibility of setting up non-profit universities, which will be under the supervision of the ADI, like public universities, and which will have to have, by law, a minimum percentage of importers of 15% to 20% with grants, strips SYRIZA's argument of indecent, uncontrollable, class higher education. It is a necessary change for the benefit of society, but not for your ideological strangles. For Articles 62 and 86, which are parliamentary immunity and the law on the responsibility of ministers, I think there is a cross-party agreement here, so I will not extend it. Let me go a little further to Article 3. As I mentioned in committee, in Potami we believe in the distinct roles of Church and State, for we believe that this is in both interests. So the distinct roles are also expressed as religious neutrality of the state, in the sense, however, of happy neutrality, as the letter of the Holy Synod, sent to us on February 8, 2019, a few days ago. To be neutral, that is, as non-interventional, recognizing the special status and mission of religions and not neutral in the sense of religiously indifferent. The precise content of Rule 3, however, is something that the next House will decide if it decides. The change, however, is dictated by the further decorativeization of the Greek Constitution. Our Orthodox Church has nothing to fear from further modernising our country's charter. The Orthodox Church is an institution of nearly two thousand years old. It's the world's longest institution. It has deep roots. Its roots, however, are in the souls of people and not in the lines of the Constitution. At the same time, however, the Church should in no way become a political tool. Any disharmony usually occurs when the parties see faithful or unfaithful as electoral clienteles. But there is a great 'but', ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is absolutely hypocritical on the one hand to support religious neutrality and on the other, to think that it is a matter of state education, that is, the development of religious conscience, as Article 16(2) says. The development of religious conscience is a mission of the Church. The State's mission may be, for example, the development of democratic awareness So the revision of Article 3 without the revision of paragraph 2 of Article 16, I think it is absolutely hypocritical, not to say ideological, because you are even afraid to touch Article 16, which is the alibi of your leftism. In addition, in the amendment to Article 5(2) on protection against discrimination, we are positive of gender discrimination, gender identity and sexual orientation. The wishes and declarations of rights and equality are well known, but the progressiveity invoked by some seems in practice to be seen in this respect rather than in words. Potami belongs to the progressive liberal center. As much as they ask us, "Tell us who you are, with SYRIZA or with New Democracy or else are in anti-SYRIZA or anti-right front?"Potami does not enter either the left or the right boxes of them, no matter how insisting. Because, for example, it can also support the possibility of establishing non-state universities in Article 16 and the distinct roles of the Church - State in Article 3, which either SYRIZA, or New Democracy, or the Change Movement, cannot express. It is, however, something that expresses an important part of our society. So this is the distinct signal that makes the progressive liberal center, which makes the Potami so special, as well as its consistency. It doesn't stay in easy words and wishing. When his time comes for this, he doesn't change. He stays consistent in his positions, which do not make them elastic to collect some votes. This sincereness is needed in society that sees hypocrisy out of our political elites, either ruling with prosecuting MPs, or having a voter's opposition. We will also agree with Mr Venizelos who said earlier that the specific provisions should be passed at a hundred and fifty-one to seventy-nine Members, so that consensus can actually be sought in the next House to determine the content of these provisions. The constitutional review, and I am closing, Mr President, is an opportunity to change things for the next generation for the better. I hope this opportunity will not be sacrificed to the altar of blind dissent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u232	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Vassilis Tsirkas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional review is a process of high democratic symbolism and political importance. The Constitution reflects the function of democracy in the political system, and that is why any revision should in principle take into account modern political and social needs and show the way forward. We have lived - the truth is - a period of unwilling application of the legal and prosperous institutions by the former governments of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. In our country the political system and large parts of society have been tested, to a large extent, especially during the period of the economic crisis and the memoranda. Especially in the first years of the crisis and in the blind implementation of neoliberal policies and austerity policies, the smooth functioning of democratic institutions went to second degree. The technocratic concept that he had led in these years completely alienated the people from his representatives, creating a reversal of parliamentaryism. We are, however, in the face of a new phase in our modern history, where the recovery of citizens' confidence in parliamentaryism is necessary. The country has managed to stand on its feet and the final exit from the people of Memorandums gives new prospects in all areas of social, economic and political life. It is time, now that we have come to the clearing, to look back and to correct in the charter those distortions which have denounced the quality of our democracy and to prevent phenomena that have affected it. Our experience, therefore, in recent years and the new needs that have been created, create an appropriate juncture for deeper changes in the direction of resuscitation of neoliberalism and the armouring of social structures, rights and social justice. Our proposal is structured in four main axes: the strengthening of civil rights, the expansion of democracy, the distinctiveness of the State - Church and the protection of social rights and common goods. Our intention is for the country to have a modern progressive constitution, which will protect public goods such as water and electricity from the rubbish of private initiative, emphatically safeguards the protection of work and workers and strengthens state guarantees for universal access to health services for all citizens. The attack on social rights in the years of the crisis has been ruthless and intent on us, in our proposal, to shield citizens' individual and social rights. The opposition parties must demonstrate greater political courage and be rid of micro-participatory purposes so that the creation of a modern constitution can emerge as a result of wider consensus for the benefit of the Greek people. Our top proposal is the one that includes changes to Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers, on the abolition of privileged institutions in favour of the political elite, on the way in which the President of the Republic is elected, and on relations between the Church - State where the religious neutrality of the state is guaranteed. These are areas of modernisation and the reintroduction of equality between citizens and policies. No one can seek excuses for not amending the provision on the responsibility of the ministers. If the current constitution is maintained as it stands for eight or ten years and the unacceptable Article 86 is not revised, this will be regrettable for the political world and its credibility. We must not waste any more time. We must root out the client state and protect parliamentarianism. It is time for policy to stop being a place of impunity and covertness and for every citizen to take a step. With regard to relations between the State and the Church, I would like to say the following. The State, the political world, the Church, the citizens, and the believers today have the maturity, the soundness and the sensitivity to accept the rationalisation of these relationships. A wide-ranging consensus can be formed so that we can move on to a new era in the relations between the State and the Church. The time has come to expressly guarantee the religious neutrality of the Greek state in the Constitution and this is an important step towards modernising and liberalising our constitution. At the same time, with our proposal, we are aiming at the proper functioning of the democratic constitution and under Article 54 of the Constitution, we are proposing the application of the proportional electoral system to the parliamentary elections. This excludes electoral systems that over-subsidize the first party, such as the current system, with the so-called 50 seats bonus. Part of this constitutional review is also our proposal by adding a new provision, paragraph 5, to Rule 56, on the establishment of the parliamentary term of office, with the aim of ending the existence of political families who consider politics and the eruption of state-of-the-art attitudes. The aim of our proposal is the greatest possible consensus to proceed with a review - a station that meets the current challenges and will safely lead us to a new era with more democracy, public participation and confidence in the state. Our aim is to put popular participation at the forefront of the political process. The elections must, of course, promote multi-faceted people's participation and help to develop the individual and collective political crisis, but we must create a new political culture by means of collective proposals and by highlighting the dynamics of the people's initiative and collective identities. We therefore propose, in Article 74, that it be amended in such a way as to enable hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, who have the right to vote, to submit proposals for legislation which will be introduced into the House for discussion, preparation and vote by strengthening the popular will. Ladies and gentlemen, we all together have to create the conditions and favourable conditions for the next Review House to be able to vote on a Constitution for a modern, democratic, European state. SYRIZA also submitted and supported, as part of the work of the Committee on Revision of the Constitution, proposals with a timely progressive that enhances transparency in political life, the coherence of the social fabric and the rule of law. With our proposal for the Revision of the Constitution, we are proving that we want to further shield democracy and parliamentaryism, individual and social rights, the rule of law that has been affected in the years of the crisis. This is a popular check, and in this check our proposal obeys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u234	Mr Constantine Hatzidakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the few minutes that, like everyone else, I would like to share with you some good and bad news with regard to the Constitutional Review. I'm starting with the good news. We've got that kind of thing, too. The good news is that we can and do at least seven provisions so far, which will take more than a hundred eighty votes as seen in the vote tomorrow. Amongst these provisions are provisions on the law on the liability of ministers, which is finally changing with cross-party consensus, the provisions on the immunity of Members and the provision of Article 32 for the election of the President of the Republic. You know that in the past this provision has been made to have governmental instability. We do not need the government's instability at all at this stage in the country. The country after ten years of crisis must have strong governments that implement the programme approved by the people. It is therefore important that, starting from different starting points and not colluding entirely to content, we have the common philosophy that the President of the Republic should not be elected to dismantle the House. I therefore think that this is a good news for our country that after the elections the government elected will have a clear mandate and a clear four years. And we must credit this to the political system as a whole in the country, of course, hoping that SYRIZA will not make a new political possibilisation, escaping from the position he has advertised for so many years. That's good. From there on, there are negatives. I could talk about a lot. I could refer to the demagogic approach to social provisions. I have heard various Members' statements today. It is what we call the Constitution of SYRIZA's happiness, various provisions that we all be rich and healthy and not poor and patients. Of course I do not consider that to be serious. Our Constitution has also shown to the committee that it provides sufficient guarantees for social rights. It is also negative - I do not understand why - that you do not adopt the rule that there should be a budgetary balance, that is to say, that the Constitution provides for, as is done in many constitutions of large and smaller European countries, such as Germany and France, that what we receive will be spent, that is to say, just so that people understand it. This is also provided for by Law 4072/14 that you have not abolished. But when we tell you what I just told you, you think we're neoliberal. Decide on which side of the policy you are with. And in any case, you know very well that at the time you refuse this proposal to have a budgetary balance, so that the country does not go to bankruptcy again, you have gone to the other end and you have agreed to have primary surpluses equal to 2060, for for forty more years. In fact, SYRIZA here gives political hypocrisy recital. I would like to close, however, by emphasising the issue that we have been dealing with in all recent years in the country, on the subject of private and non-state universities. Ladies and gentlemen, if no one sees the international reality, it can well be understood that the Left is saying it, the Central Right says it is a normal political dialogue. But, look, I have here in front of me a study of UNESCO 2009 on education worldwide, which refers to non-public and private universities and which on page 8 says contagious - I will submit it in the Minutes - that only four countries on the planet in 2009, as we ban private universities, were banned. What countries? North Korea, Cuba, Bhutan and Greece. I'll submit it to the Minutes. By 2009, we had three countries that were joining us in this particular matter. What happened that way? From there in 2011 in North Korea, Kim Young Eun, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, a U.S. university went and the American universities started in North Korea. I'll testify to that in the Minutes. Then I looked, I was curious to see what happened in Bhutan. The Internet helps. In 2013, then, Bhutan, this mountain state over India, has taken out an ad here that says: "We have a private university, come and study in Bhutan." We, of course, forbid it. And then, we also have Cuba that the Prime Minister visited. And here I found on December 18, 2017, signature of an agreement between Harvard and the university there in Havana at the "Hotel Nacional de Cuba". I shall submit this contract as well. If it does not convince you, because lately you are defending Maduro, I will submit here a list of the top private universities in Venezuela. And in Venezuela there are private universities. Your Maduro came out of the right. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Well, I've just said all of this to talk to your conscience. Do you want to stay dogmatically on the line of Maximus "No, do we not want private universities"? You want to do what? Public opinion is against you, young children are disappointed, families send their children abroad and give foreign exchange, Greek teachers are in England, America, to the four points of the horizon. All these people will be grateful if we change this provision. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] And I want to talk to you with a consensual spirit. You don't want the New Democracy arrangement? You don't want her. Take KINAL's provision, which says: non-State universities. Please adopt it, please adopt it, not partisanly - we party are won by it - national please. See your friendly circle, see your children, see your families, your friends. Put aside your dogmas, put aside the Maximus and the party lines. We need to see the national interest, the interest of young children. If you do, you will be grateful by the great majority of Greek society. You haven't thought about it until Thursday. Please rethink it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u236	We're continuing with Mrs. Jackie, SYRIZA MP. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, as of 2013, it has been possible to launch the process of revision of the Constitution after the completion of five years of the previous unsuccessful efforts by the New Democracy, which has not, in fact, succeeded in gathering the necessary consensus and, more generally, the conviction that its revision is pending as a historic matter in our state history for two decades. And that is for two reasons: firstly, because our institutional relationship with the European Union imposes as a historic adjustment the constitutional review, since our Constitution has basically been drafted by a national state, which has then joined a supreme European institution which has suffered and been enlarged and deepened. Furthermore, for some people, there is still the question of whether there are Union regulations that are super-constitutional, that is whether there are provisions that have more legal effect than the Greek Constitution and scientific and political needs to be given the necessary answers. Secondly, because Greece in recent years has been tested by an extraordinary economic and financial crisis that has tried the citizens and continues to test them, but also by the institutions. Therefore, the control of the institutions, in the light of the crisis which has tested them, is a necessary political project. In this light, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are now called upon to decide how the guidelines for a successful constitutional review should be. A Western democracy finds its most authentic expression of the effective protection of individual and social rights, such as the right to work, health, social security and the legitimisation of minimum wages, equal pay regardless of age and decent living for all, but also the democratic functioning of institutions and the protection of democracy as such. Why? Because the economic and social crisis has resulted in political extremism and the graphicization of politics, but also in a complete depreciation of politics as a public function. In view of this situation, the revised legislator in Greece of 2019 should have as its main concern to raise the credibility, prestigiousness and price of the political system and this is an existential order of intervention for the proper functioning of the institutions. The political system has lost its contact with society and this can have dramatic consequences for the future of societies. The natural space of the injured policy, the injured public space, is the Constitution, i.e. the fundamental law which defines and organises the effective and democratic functioning of the institutions. Therefore, all the individual interventions made to restore the honor and prestige of the political world have been attempted in their natural space, which is the Constitution. Here is the establishment of a limit for a general term of office, which would lead to a rightful blockade both for the submission of a new nomination and for the election as a Member of any person who has exceeded this limit. We could thus hamper to some extent the creation of a political elite, with professional features of a closed guild, and at a time when politics needs those who do not need politics. Only in this way can familial phenomena be eliminated. Because in the old political system we have no phenomena of hereditary monarchy, but we have a large number of phenomena of hereditary democracy. In fact, five families in the last fifty years have been dominating the political life of our country, having even acquired property rights for the state and altering their members to governmental criminals. The establishment of parliamentary mandates therefore help, but not enough alone. The inner-party democracy must also be established in the parties. In the same direction, the proposal to abolish the immunity of the Member of Parliament on the occasion and not in the performance of his duties, which has so much caused society and has become an element of the dismantling of politics by the populists, has given them the pretext to slander policy towards democratic citizens. Here is the provision for a revision of Article 86 of the Constitution, which gives the sense, not unjustly, of the unjustified privileged criminal treatment of the ministers in relation to ordinary citizens and at the same time gave the impression that a protected pouch has been created. Our proposal for a revision of Article 86 therefore abolishes the short deadline for depreciating, providing that for the crimes of the Minister there is a time when the offence that applies to ordinary citizens is dropped. All the above proposals, of course, for the revision of the provisions of the Constitution concerning civil servants and for the restoration of the credibility and prestige of the political system, must be seen in conjunction with the constitutional provision for the democratic integration of the parliamentary and therefore the electoral cycle, because only then will they guarantee the necessary modernisation and rationalisation of the political system as a whole. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the way in which the President of the Republic was elected has until now been an extortion mechanism for the early use of the polls, where his election was falsified as a state matter, while in fact it was a way of circumventing, a way of undermining the four-year government service. Our proposal, therefore, for the revision of Rule 32, now requires an increase of two-thirds of the total number of Members in the first two votes for the election of the President of the Republic, and if this is not achieved, an increased three-fifths of all Members in repeated, if necessary, votes until six months after the start of the election procedure and since none of these votes have been held by the required majority, the President of the Republic is directly elected by the people. This proposal, as it goes without saying, seeks, on the one hand, to avoid the provocation of early elections for political reasons and, on the other hand, to ensure the consensual election of the President of the Republic. In the same direction, of course, other proposals of the Review are being initiated, such as the motion of censure against the government only when a ready-made successor is proposed, so that there is no disruption to parliamentary function and political order, as well as a constitutional provision for the establishment of a more proportional electoral system, which is a constant historical and timely demand of the progressive world in Greece and the West, since it guarantees the most representative political and electoral expression of society, particularly the creation of a political consensus culture on the issues of national life. Coxism and the sloppyness, however, which the New Democracy has faced with the reform process and the neoliberal direction towards which it has proposed that our Constitution should be guided by its proposal to include accounting proposals in the fundamental law of the state and its initial approach to the uprooting of the entire constitutional review process if SYRIZA does not vote for the revision of Article 16 on the establishment of private universities - from which, of course, it has retreated again for reasons of party feasibility - proves rather an acknowledgment of the importance of the historical context that we are currently struggling with and results in a manifest political discomfort and a lack of real proposals and positions on the country's fundamental map, in the most critical historic turning point of the last decades. It is not the last time that the New Democracy consumed and spent the previous review process in 2008 in unnecessary micro-legislative arrangements, which had no impact on society and the political system. However, I would like to end, ladies and gentlemen, with a point of order and a point of order. The finalisation of the constitutional process in two stages, i.e. essentially in two Bulgarians, which ranks our Constitution, established in terms of the reform process, in the tough constitutions, has an interpretative legal and political logic: to confirm genuinely and bindingly by two Bulgarians the historically formed revision will to amend the provisions to be revised with specific regulatory content. If the regulatory content and the review procedure are not specific, it is only about the number and titles of articles in the Constitution, it is clear that the Proposed House may decide in one direction and the Review House should move in the opposite direction. This, however, is a legal absurdum and is not constitutionally tolerated. On the contrary, it exposes the political world and the review process itself, since, for the same reason, the major constitutional issue, which was raised in the Greek people's crisis, in the citizens' judgement in the elections that took place between the two Bulgarians, appears to be two diametrically opposite arrangements. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the vote that will be followed does not obviously concern only the numerical titles of the proposed provisions, but above all their regulatory content and regulatory direction. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now realistic to expect from our political system a constitutional review that would help to overcome it. On the other hand, the tendencies of political extremism fuel them not only the Constitution, but also the real pathogens of Greek society. If these can be brought up, among other things, by holding democratically organised parties, by renewing political staff without heirs, donors, etc., then a constitutional review with these characteristics would simply confirm the democracy involved in practice. The issue for our society is to replace today's hierarchical, feudal pyramids with institutionalised political organisations, representing society against power rather than the other way round. It is also a question of ending the reproduction of a semi-closed class of policy professionals and separating public policy from private economic power. Finally, it is a question of making the transition from a super-democratic political system to a new and more democratic model of state and, above all, the institutions. This is the subject of this Constitutional Review. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u238	Thank you. Before giving Mr Nicholas the floor, I should like to make a statement to this House. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. Mr. Nicholas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Review has all agreed that it is a requirement of society, but also of our times. It is for this reason that the Christian Democratic Party of Greece has, at the outset, tabled its own proposals for the major, necessary radical areas that the country needs, but also the need to reaffirm the fundamental principles and values that govern the Greek state and the Greek nation. The Christian Democrat Party of Greece has tabled concrete proposals and at the same time wants to announce that it is voting on all the major institutional changes proposed wherever they are tabled. In just three of them I'll stand. First, in Article 86 of the Constitution which provides for the short limitation of offences committed by Ministers in the performance of their duties. And everyone finally admits that it must be abolished. Secondly, the control of the funding of the parties should be tightened up and systemized. Thirdly, the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution in order to allow private universities to be set up in the country becomes mature and necessary for Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously - and rightly so - the first thing we need to do is to identify the provisions which need to be changed and updated. I would like to make it clear and repeat that all the changes proposed, which will be put to the decision of the next House to be reviewed, are to be voted on. Why should we not risk any provision being left out of review, as small and minor as it may seem. I have only one exception in this general rule: the changes that can unleash pre-eternal principles and values and lead to the country's delinquency and dismantling. An example is the preamble to the Constitution, which reflects the historical continuity and uninterrupted relationship between Hellenism and Orthodoxy or the provisions that define the Orthodox Church as a dominating religion in the country. Ladies and gentlemen - as has been stressed many times - Greece is a democratic and fully decorative state. Greece has nothing to do with states in which religious and state law is confused or even identified. Only respect and due honor to the Church for its historic struggles regarding the maintenance of national identity are expressed in the current Constitution. And that is why it is recognised as a person of legal law, as is the Central Israeli Council, as well as the Muslim mushrooms of Thrace. It is also noted that in the 1975 Constitution there is reference to the superiority of religion, the freedom of religious conscience in Article 13. So we Greek Christian Democrats, without reservations and asterisks, fully identify themselves with the official and well-known position of the Holy Synod of the Church of Greece, as well as with the need to safeguard the rights of the Ecumenical Patriarchate and Mount Athos. The reference to the distinct roles of the State - Church is impeccable and misleading, since the roles are already distinct. The state legislates freely, unscrupulously and out of the Church, and even several times against its dogmas. I remind you of the automatic divorce, political marriage, the cohabitation pact between homosexuals and heterogeneous couples, the burning of dead and so much more. The same goes for the purposes of education, as stated in the current Constitution, without however implying that other changes, such as those which can ensure substantial institutional and economic self-sufficiency of public universities, are not necessary. On the other hand, apart from the abolition of the provision of Article 86, there is also the need to strengthen the control of funding - as I said before - for the parties and to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the parliamentary elections, it is of course sufficient to find the most appropriate formula to disconnect this election from the early dissolution of the House with the change of Articles 30, 34 and 35. Finally, I regret the fact that there seems to be no consensus on the establishment of a constitutional court, which, in my view, is absolutely essential in a modern democratic country. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a large number of articles and provisions which can be better amended, such as Article 2, so that there is a constitutional safeguard for national identity and language. In Articles 4, 15, 16, 17, 24 and 25, concepts and conditions may be introduced to strengthen individual and social rights, protection of the environment, freedom of the press, the intellectual dimension of property, as well as Articles 44, 54 and 102 in the direction of strengthening participatory democracy and the possibility of referendums, respectively, in Article 78 in the direction of creating a stable tax system and, of course, in Article 86 and, as I have already said, in the other articles up to Article 90, in order to create a new sense in society of a rule of law. I repeat that we are ready to vote on the introduction of a stable electoral system and any other provision which can shape conditions of dignity and justice. And, of course, the changes to the country's Constitutional Charter must be the crown of these necessary cuts and breaches, and we have only in our vote to dare. The responsibility of the next House will be great anyway. The responsibility of this House, however, is to transfer as much responsibilities as possible to the next House. Thank you very much, Mr President, for this provision - for which you have taken the initiative - which I have also signed. However, I will not mention it since time does not allow for it. Of course you will highlight it and announce it in the best way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u240	We shall proceed to the next speaker. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Xydakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the proposals for the revision of the Constitution for the next revised Parliament with a sense of responsibility - I believe - of all the political groups. As far as the ruling majority is concerned and the initiative is concerned, I would like to say that on its own, the taking-up and completion of the initiative with the present totalitarians and those that will take place in a month, shows that the SYRIZA Government is moving from a sense of historic duty to this critical political period - moreover, a revision does not bring any electoral gains - and responds to its sense of responsibility towards the tasks of institutional renewal and, above all, to the strengthening of the citizens' confidence in the Hellenic Republic. The crisis has stirred above all national and democratic self-confidence, has shaken the faith of citizens in institutions and every move to revitalise, strengthen and renovate the state framework is an excellence of care and a model movement. And it is not just what shows the political intentions of the Left. It is a logical consequence, an end to progress with sincerity and boldness, along with the social agenda which, after the end of the memorandum, now sets out to ensure social rights, the rights of the world of work, the rights to insurance, basic social rights and the conditions of living. It is the responsibility of the change in the production model, in addition to the distortions of the past and derailment and the 1990s and the 2000s, which have led us to painful bankruptcy. It is the boldness and sincerity and responsibility that it shows in foreign policy and the recovery of a diplomatic capital that has left us in slandering ways for the Greek people. And the Macedonian was a move like that. It is a move that is not aimed at the election benefit or the short-term party benefit, but a move for the historical and national interests, for the historical guarantee of the region and the Greek people and the Hellenic Republic. In the same way it moves to a renovation orbit of the institutions, the Left and the present Review which we are discussing here and with the efforts being made on a new protocol of coexistence between the State and the Church and on the consolidation in the consciousness of the citizens of an agenda of rights, an agenda of promoted purely political and social liberalism. It shows, therefore, that the Left within these ruins of which a mandate has been received does not only reverse hope, but is trying to rebuild a path of national and social self-confidence. And I think now that the program, nature and the new relationship with the Greek people are being unfolded, the new social contract after the end of the memoranda. With regard to the Constitutional Review, Mr Venizelos in many of the abrasions and debates that we had on articles pointed out that he considered it to be a little too long-sighted, because he framed and tied up European and international law, which, on the other hand, outweighed our own desire for national law, is a few things solved. We don't even have to prescribe them. However, even though this starting point is correct as a first thought for reasons of carelessness of the Greek people, for the sake of the existence of the Parliament itself, we must make these modernisations, these reforms in the constitutional text, even to facilitate the judicial control which Mr Venizelos has been called upon. It is not the judges who are good or bad - in my opinion - who are bad - that these stiffness exists and they are all directly invoking the Greek Constitution. The Vice-President of the Revision Committee, Mr Tragakis, in a sincere abstention, described the 2007 revision as incomplete and unfortunate, from the outset, the 2014 revision. It started and never arrived in committee or in plenary. I think that in this 2019 Parliament, which is ending with the responsibility and historical weight to reach an agreement on a few few few articles, to give a political message to the Greek people who suffered and whoever was shaken against democracy and already, because of a lot of uncompromising demagogy and many manipulations, unfortunately, not only on the part of the democracies, but also on the part of those who flirting with the institutions and the major national issues and foreign policy issues, we again have cries and mistrust and mistrust towards the Hellenic Republic. Article 86 - many people have said so before me, and other colleagues will say so - concerning the honour of the elected rulers, the reason for trust between the citizens and politicians, we will have to restore it in a way that will serve both democracy and the functioning of the state and our existence as hereditaries. The removal of the presidential election from the election cycle is also an issue on which there should be convergence in the next House. My opinion is that we should not harm Article 24 in any way. That's my place. It is one of the most progressive articles, both in the protection of the environment and in the protection of cultural heritage and in the interpretative provisions that have entered into subsequent revisions. What we say about environmental balances and the rest is from the evil. We must not change the substance and the wording of Article 24. In conclusion, even for the oath, I have heard from some colleagues that Greek's soul is Orthodoxy, pre-eternal and all of this and that a vow is needed. There is no single theological argument. Seek it in any paternal text or in the Bible, the Old Testament, and the New Testament. Refer to any modern theological book - study. There's no point in that. There is an argument for religious covetousness and patriocardialism, which is used for the purpose of consulting audiences, who do not even know what they believe and what the teaching of the Church is and, unfortunately, are heard by the Step of the House. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty seconds, Mr. President. In conclusion, we had a good procedure in committee and with a relatively high level, both academic and political, in dialogue. I have understood, like other colleagues, that there is no need to constitutionalise some of the issues which have been proposed either by parliamentary groups or colleagues. That's enough of the standard laws. We don't have to get to extremes. I do not in any way need the constitutionalisation of budgetary policy. He can't get into the narrow corset. We already have many corsets from both the Maastricht Treaty and the Financial Stability Pact, things that are currently being discussed in the European Union. We do not have to put it in the national constitutional rule. There is no need for this formism and, above all, this sovereignty, that a Constitution, a constitutional charter, will constantly dictate to executive power and legislators what they will do. In an observation by Mr Venizelos, I will agree. He said that great international restrictions are enough in many of these things. And we should be more bold in justice. Indeed, what cannot be easily controlled is the conscience of the judges and the whole culture of the judges, when they are dealing with issues that have a financial impact or a great economic impact and ignore the real data, the real potential of the country and are being tried on the basis of an ideal 'leaf tree', which can produce tens of billions and compensate millions of our fellow citizens. Unfortunately, however, neither with the Constitution nor in any other way can you change that attitude and culture. It is an issue that the legislative body, the executive and the judges, must be constantly concerned with, who must differently understand their role in a rule of law and in a state that is trying to develop and survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, too. However, I would ask that we keep the time, because you realise that there are too many Members who want to speak and, of course, the next sitting cannot be extended beyond that. Please have the floor for the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. I have been following this so-called theoretical debate in the last few days, which has opened before the political deadlock created in the SYRIZA, following the vote in favour of the Review both of Article 86 of the Law on Responsibility of Ministers and of Article 32 on the failure to dismantle Parliament in the event of the President of the Republic not being elected. We must not respond to strange theories that solve them and to the theory itself, trying to bind the next sovereign House about what exactly the next constitutional legislators will write in the text, which they will interact. All this theory that this House commits the next conflict to a basic principle. It is the principle of popular sovereignty, which you are saying that you are respecting eventually you want to demarcate, limit, and ultimately fear it because you are sure of the way in which you react that the next majority will not be friendly to SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, the review process is under way because it answers the historical issues that arise. And the top issue that arose between the previous review, and that is clearly the issue of the economic crisis. In the face of these issues raised by the crisis itself, unfortunately, your proposal does not respond. He doesn't even consider it. It does not even take into account the difficult business environment in the country that appears at all levels. There is no care to remove all these restrictions. It does not even appear to be in the unregulated budgetary environment that the country is living to fail to agree to put the limitation we are telling you about balanced budgets in the bilateral that would send a proper signal to the markets, that we would be guaranteed against unwise future governments and, of course, they would show that we finally understood what happened and responded to it. On the contrary, we are coming and discussing issues that should have been resolved in previous revisions again today and, unfortunately, we are faced with the same denials we have heard in the past. I will read you a sentence: "In particular in our country it is certain that if we allow the establishment of non-state higher education institutions, the level of education will rise, the output of education will be limited and finally a Greek scientific potential that teaches foreign universities will return to our country." It's nothing topical. From this step twenty-two years ago, in defending the New Democracy's proposal at the time, Yiannis Varvitsiotis proposed the revision of Article 16. Twenty-two years later you came with exactly the same arguments that PASOK said then to tell us "No, we'll stay in yesterday. We will remain in the junta's provision of Article 16, as the constitution of the junta has shaped it, and it stipulates that HEIs should be exclusively legal entities governed by public law, leaving no margin. You talk about progressivity in your proposal and I, on the contrary, read backwards. Fear the change in Article 16. You fear the change in Article 24, which will release healthy forces in our country, our economy, will make use of our natural wealth. It'll stop being the bogeyman in Article 24 in any major investment at the place. You don't want to! You do not want to change the way in which you choose the leadership of justice, to stop being at last the exclusive privilege of each government. I was struck by the fact that your rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, said that our proposal was not accepted because this matter does not seem to be matured for discussion. But if you do not think that today's maturity for discussion is finally ripe for justice to gain its own physical leadership, regardless of the government's will, after all we have seen and the fact that a war between justice and the government is on the table, what else do you want to see? Let me tell you both the last ones. You have drawn up a review procedure whereby you want to get us into the corner, supposedly, that we are defending the privileges of the political system, while we are the first to come and vote and vote for the proposal for a change and Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers, but also on the issues of parliamentary immunity. But the attitude you take within Parliament itself is inconsistent. This morning Mr Kammenos in the Ethics Committee stated that he was covered by the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers not to respond to a complaint lodged with him by an editor who he has deputized. When will you finally have a consistency between what you are advocating to what you are saying and what you are doing? You are asking for the story of the referendum to be opened when we know that the only referendum that took place since 1975, when the Greek people voted 'no' to new measures of 1.5 billion, you went and brought measures of 11.5 billion - so to enjoy it, for ten years! - and cancel the vote then of the Greek people. Likewise, to tell you the truth, you fear the change in relation to the election of the President of the Republic. It is true that this threat of the break-up of the House led to early elections in 2009. And it is true that this threat was implemented and implemented in 2014, when you led the Samara Government to fall. Do not think of reaching the vote and changing your view on the issue of decoupling the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. The next government will not be hostage to such a threat, which you will probably express in 2020. Let's get this over with. Let us understand that under no circumstances has the dissolution of this House helped, and let us understand one more thing, that the limited powers which the President of the Republic has in any way justified this dissolution. Ladies and gentlemen, I would have been very happy if our proposal for a total vote had been adopted in all the articles under review so that the next House after the opinion and crisis of the Greek people was ready to change the country's charter definitively and catalysts. However, in any case, we do not miss the opportunity of those who have hurt the citizens and have seen how much they have injured the credibility of the political system itself not to change them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u244	Please shorten.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, let us arm the next House with some tools, particularly with regard to Article 86 and Article 32, so that at least we can restore these deep malfunctions of our political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u246	Thank you. Mr Balomeni, Member of the SYRIZA, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution that we have today, in general terms, in and after its revisions, has opened up horizons to newer concepts of democracy, equality and social rights, the protection of the natural environment and natural resources. It is about imprinting the changes that have taken place in Greek society since 1975. In particular, for those reforms that are innovative, modern and progressive, it must be said that these have resulted in the interruption of the overhaul of conservative forces, the rise in the educational level of the Greeks, but also progress in social organisation by the emergence of new movements, of civil society, of rights and of ecology, which have had a decisive impact on these changes. The Left always recognizes the Constitution and the institutions in general, apart from their regulatory dimension, as an area of ideological and political confrontation. It also recognises that legislative and over-legislative arrangements should reflect changes in the conceptions and choices of the social body. In this sense, the main concern of the majority proposals must be to reflect on these reclassifications that the crisis has brought to the consciences of the majority of citizens, which have led to the development of the necessary areas. Equally important is the need to eliminate the risk of repetition of negative phenomena which have emerged and against which constitutional guarantees have so far proved to be insufficient, as has been the case in the area of labour rights. We have already given scripts before the overall proposal of the Constitutional Review, and it is a simple analogue, broadening freedoms with the legislative guarantee of new social and political rights on equal terms for citizens, opening up dialogue with the Church, and it is really time that this orientation came and received constitutional safeguards. As other colleagues have said, the main aim and main purpose of concern, I believe, is to restore citizens' confidence in the country's governance, in executive power. Today this confidence is low, weak, and that is why it proposes the measures proposed in the motion for a resolution, measures such as a simple analogue, a motion of censure with a proposal for distrust with the Prime Minister, the elimination of the four-year period, which is very essential, as is, of course, Article 86 which other Members have already said, which has already gone to total disarmament and, of course, the change in the way in which the immunity of Members will be regulated. There are some other measures. I won't read them because I see I can't make it. What we have to say, however, is that the justification for suggesting the introduction of popular initiatives was precisely that in the crisis and the huge outbreak of popular discontent there was no institution that would give expression and the possibility of a step of expression to the people's forces. Here we must respond to a previous speaker from the New Democracy who said: 'The Constitution has hurt you for the crisis'. It's not like that. Let us consider what the political situation would be if there were opportunities for expression and popular legislative initiative and so many other things, which could have been done by forming a new field in referendum opportunities. As far as social rights are concerned, we have not concealed our intention to shield the individual and social rights of citizens through the Review. There really is a difference in the perceptions between the two major factions and I am referring specifically to the New Democracy. I will highlight a difference in the expressions. The new Republic on the question of the State's obligations towards the citizens is talking about ensuring a minimum guaranteed income, and our proposal talks about a guaranteed level of decent living. It is a concept that is much wider than the minimum guaranteed income, which clearly refers to a reasonable income support, a subsidy, which, of course, when the state does not have, will not give, and our proposal is more comprehensive and is aimed at a flexible social needs coverage. It aims at ensuring citizens of goods and services in education, welfare, health, housing, heating, which are essential at the present level of life, so that there is a decent level. In this review procedure the New Democracy officially had a consensual character. In essence, however, I do not think I will be mistaken if I say that he has tried to undermine any proposal that was'smell' progressively modernising. It is characteristic of a neo-colonialism, with which it has usually rejected our proposals for broadening social and individual rights. He underestimated them as "righteousism", wanting to present them as a result of an idealism. I think that it is ideological, on the contrary, that there has been in some respects its own attitude with accession to the need for there to be as much scope as possible for the free action of the private initiative as well as for insisting on the possibility of narrow interpretation of references to social rights in particular. The new Republic, assisted by this issue and by the KINAAL, has fought a great deal - and here we understand it - in order to introduce, as a clause, the obligation to respect balanced budgets. It would take a lot of time to talk about the substance of the dimension of these opinions. We can say, however, that if there were balanced budgets, there would always be a cut, a super-legislative corps which would prevent a democratically elected government from implementing programme commitments. Household budget, yes, we also proved it in the previous budget that we did not make an unreasonable expansion, but another issue is this and another to make use of the effort to balance the budget, which, incidentally, is not a legal obligation under any circumstances. We have said so in committee too. It does not provide for the legislative framework today strictly balanced budgets, but requires a balanced budget in general, as does the Lisbon Treaty. To conclude, I would like to say that the fact that the SYRIZA proposals were voted in favour, by bringing together more votes from the number of members of the SYRIZA who participated in the committee, refers to the assessment that these are mature and studied proposals, which potentially unite our country's progressive world against the demands for conservative folding. So can we vision a different state, a citizen-friendly state, a state - defender of public goods and a guardian of individual and social rights? Dependence will also be found in the composition of the next House. If we want and believe, and as we will strive to happen, there are the necessary progressive majorities in the next Parliament, the work that has begun will surely come to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, too. Since the matter has been raised until what time this Parliament will meet, I would like to tell you that the Members are divided into circles. We're still in the first circle. We're in number 33 of the first cycle. It follows the second cycle with fourteen MPs, the third cycle that reaches number 28 and the fourth cycle and the thirteenth place is MP Mr. Panagoulis. This is the fourth cycle program. In other words, in the circles of Members, they are not in complete order with figures. That is why there is also a confusion on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the 1st Gymnasium Tripolis Arcadias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember with some melancholy the red background - of course, alas - the House building in the summer of 2016. It was a spectacular subject with his political symbolism, because it was the time when Mr Tsipras meant the launch of the review process, with extended popular participation - another thing that popular participation never came or sought, after all, ever - with invitations to public life figures and outside Parliament - other that contributed from little or no to the review effort - because the aim was, above all, the creation of impressions, the fireworks. After more than two and a half years of re-examination, the Constitutional Review Committee was formed, in December, which passed us. It was a relatively mild climate in its work, a high level of accountability, but time limited. It was very difficult to develop all the issues sufficiently when each Member of Parliament had to be put on thirty articles, for example in the chapter of the 'Organisation and Functioning of the State', all of them being heard and debate exhausted in this limited time. It was also obvious that the majority would be prepared to speed up the debate. The evaluation of the project is rather unreasonable, unreasonable and disappointing, despite the disposition of many colleagues - almost everyone or all, I would say - to contribute substantially to the dialogue. Because something was missing, like something is missing today. And what is missing is the appropriate climate for the review process to proceed. Because the appropriate climate presupposes, firstly, parliamentary normality and, secondly, a relatively mild political climate in order to develop the real consensus required for broad agreement on basic, at least, revised provisions. This does not exist, what Albizat described as reaching the minimum necessary consensus, as a matter of common sense. And it is clear that in recent weeks and in particular in recent weeks the political climate within Parliament, but also outside, has been favouring both common sense and consensus on a useful and functional review process. Konstantinos Tsatsos, Chairman of the Committee on Constitution, in the debate on the first post-government constitution which was drafted - not revised - was written - in the summer of 1975, he said: "After a spirit of suspicion, there is no founding of the constitutions, but only...", "institutionalized" means, "...in a spirit of mutual trust." And Constantine Stefanis, Minister of Justice at the time and expedited but also a key factor in the drafting of the 1975 Constitution, recalled that in that debate the then governmental majority of the Government of National Unity had accepted a hundred amendments to the original text, in order, as he said, to make the original draft more acceptable to minority, because this is the consensus in practice in a revision process. Comparisons with today are rather sad. Why, what are you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? Firstly, you are ideology for the Review and, secondly, you are working on it as a process. And so you find it so difficult to show confidence in your initiative, but you also undermine continuity. You propose a constitution with an ideological mark, and indeed with a negative ideological mark, a constitution that is not neoliberal, you tell us. However, the Constitution is neither left nor right nor neoliberal nor socialist nor Keynshian, of course. It's politics. It is the charter of the state, it is the rule of functioning of the institutions of the state. It is ultimately the institutional vehicle of the functioning of democracy in practice. I have then seen many of your proposals either contradict what is being done in relation to reality, either incomplete in relation to reality or far from the changes that are really necessary in our Constitution. For example, you are proposing religious neutrality in a country where, of course, religion is, in principle, protected, but it does not prevail. No one but religious neutrality prevails, at least in the collective consciousness of the people. You propose after the institutional continuation or rather the institutional strengthening of the referendums, when the Prime Minister himself recently denounced the institution of the referendum, turning "no" into "yes" and defying and reversed the result of the referendum that he had provoked in the summer of 2015. From there on, refuse to revise Article 16, i.e. the possibility of setting up private universities next to wide-ranging public service operators. Your refusal is really a lost opportunity for the country. You refused the New Democracy's proposal on the institutional armouring of the independence of justice, with the removal of the choice of the physical leadership of the Supreme Courts from the will of the executive. The impressive thing is that you didn't even have a proposal. You did not consider it necessary to bring forward some proposals to the section on "The Functioning of the Judiciary", not because the time is not mature, as the Minister, or society said, but because you, as SYRIZA, are not mature to give up the right to constantly try to control justice as much as you can. Of course, you have also refused every proposal from the New Democracy to improve incomplete and many times problematic, as we have seen and admitted, in private, legislative process. On the other hand, we accepted the restriction of Members' judicial privileges on matters of parliamentary immunity, so that it would be limited to acts which have to do with the exercise of the duties of Members and not beyond them. We also accepted the lifting of the distortion in the criminal treatment of the Ministers by equating them with the ordinary citizen procedurally, in agreement with the abolition of the short deadline. We believe, of course, that the restoration of the price of the political system, as very promptly announced in your proposal, does not have to do so much or rather entirely with these two proposals, but it has to do with, for example, eliminating phenomena, such as the opportunistic translations of Members, the statements of parliamentary opinions - in writing, indeed - the changing government majorities in their minds. And they cause injuries to the reputation of the political system. However, the question of the work of the procedure, beyond its ideologicalisation, usually arises or rather arises mainly in what is defined or discussed in Article 110 on the revision procedure, especially as regards the question of the Parliament's commitment to what is decided in this House, namely the proposing one. We must take account of three elements, three words, if you like. Firstly, the need to revise provisions, secondly, the direction of this review and, thirdly, its content, namely, the final content of the provision, the text of the revised constitution. I am referring as an example to Rule 32 on the election of the President of the Republic. In fact, a rumour is spreading that it is withdrawn from the government, perhaps because the government accepts that the content of the proposal does not, as in scientific theory, commit the next House, namely the Review House. Here is the first one, the need for a review by the nominated parliament. Secondly, the direction is also determined. In this direction, let us say, it could be that the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic should not lead to the dissolution of the House, to recourse to the polls and to the early cessation of the life of a democratically elected government. This is the direction, the ratio, if you like, from the proposing parliament. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirdly, the final content of the revised order is formed by the next parliament, which will emerge after elections, the revised Parliament. I shall conclude, Mr President, a little bit of your tolerance. Why should the weight of the final content of the revised provision be in the next House? Because the national elections, ladies and gentlemen, which will take place, will give rise to the provision - the need to revise it will already have been noted by this House - the necessary additional popular legitimacy, which will impose its final review and shape its final content. This is the full process. The principle of popular sovereignty is met, a fundamental principle of the functioning of the parliamentary culture. Two parliaments, the first one proposed, the nominated parliament, the second one revised, the revised parliament and a national election to take place between the two parliaments. This is also the current view of scientific theory, the view of the major constitutionalists, Manesi, Dimitrios Tsatsos and the most active constitutionalists. But you have supported other things here. You submitted the Review to political settlements. In practice, you are undermining the consensus in the review process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This work - and I end here - ideologically charged and not ideologically in the Review is not a problematic, a difficult simple review, but it is also a great - I think - lost opportunity for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, too. We are moving on with Mrs Kerameau who has changed her position, so the issue has already been raised, with Mr Jakkalis. Mr. Jamaklis will talk next. Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u251	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Review Committee has completed its work. Eighteen meetings took place within about two and a half months. Today, we are faced with the first vote. On November 14, this is where the Stepma had swept through the alarm, so that the opportunity for a brave and in-depth constitutional review is not lost. Unfortunately, our fears have been confirmed and the opportunity for a bold revision of the provisions of the Constitution seems to be lost. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has come to the debate on the Revision of the Constitution with due respect, proposing a brave, structured intervention. The new constitution, which the country needs, should serve three key political priorities: it should promote the political normality and balance of institutions. In this context, it should ensure the continuity and effectiveness of the State, strengthen the separation of powers, further shield justice, establish accountability, transparency and evaluation. It should also guarantee a stable economic environment, protect investment, establish the golden financial rule, establish rational, spatial and environmental planning and upgrade education, with the possibility of establishing non-public and private universities under public supervision. The third objective is to promote social solidarity and equal opportunities. In this context, it should ensure equal opportunities for all as a prerequisite for social mobility and prosperity. On the contrary, however, the government had a basic task throughout this process: to block a real attempt to modernise the Constitution by New Democracy for the next 10 years. This, after all, has been cynically and reluctantly confessed by Mr Katrugalos in a radio interview just before the committee's work began. So what does SYRIZA propose? It makes proposals for institutional dissolution, such as the constitutional safeguarding of a mere proportional system as a permanent electoral system, which will lead the country to permanent government. Until first he proposed - because we are not sure whether he proposes, because in the last twenty minutes there has been a disturbance in the SYRIZA's proposals - something specific about the release of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. Let me make a reference to this: there is a debate on Rule 32, that is, if the House is to be dismantled, if the votes necessary for the election of the President of the Republic are not taken. Allow me to make a brief regression. In 2014, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you used this provision to lead to a dissolution of the House and to rise to power. In 2018, you came and said: “Let us think about it. It is not right for the House to be dissolved unless the votes necessary for the election of the President of the Republic are held.’; And you, of SYRIZA, suggested that the election of the President of the Republic be released from the dissolution of the House. We talked about it. The New Democracy is in agreement at the outset that the House should not be dissolved unless the votes are held. That is why we voted in favour of this article so that it is in the next House to be revised. Before twenty-six, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, reports say that Mr. Katrugalos or others of your party make statements that you are retreating, that you are backing up. Why are you back? For the very simple reason: because the New Democracy voted - and it will vote - to be a review of this article, this means that more than a hundred eighty votes are held, which means that in the next House this provision will be able to change by a simple majority. If, then, the publications that you are doing behind show, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, a great deal of two things: firstly, you have anticipated that the New Democracy will be self-powered in the next Parliament. Otherwise, you would not worry at all that the constitutional change in Article 32 will pass. Second conclusion, sad. You will do everything in your power to remain or to try to get back to power and that you will not even hesitate to work on this supreme parliamentary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the fact that this constitutional review does not even include a simple reference on the part of SYRIZA to the major institutional areas that the country needs. That's exactly why we're talking about a lost opportunity. Because the SYRIZA proposal does not touch any areas of public life, such as public administration, education, justice and the environment. SYRIZA's proposal does not touch on the daily lives of the citizen, such as good legislation and budgetary stability. SYRIZA's proposal does not touch the basic features of a favoured state, such as merit, transparency, accountability, evaluation. In other words, all those fields remain intact, which, if they were to change, would give Greek society a propulsionist momentum. SYRIZA, however, does not want Greek society to move forward. He does not want the Greeks to progress, but wants ideological strangles and backward practices to be blocked. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll close, ladies and gentlemen, with one reference to Article 16. We have proposed that non-governmental and private universities should finally be allowed to be set up under the supervision of a strong and credible independent authority. And you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, didn't consent. But you have tomorrow - or tomorrow now - one last chance to get over and vote for the abolition of this regressive provision and for all together to be able to establish non-state universities. If we do that, ladies and gentlemen, we will, firstly, be able to limit the Brain Drain and Students and use this valuable human potential in our country, with the direct benefit of higher education and the economy in general. Secondly, we will be able to attract students from all over the world, with immediate economic benefits for the country. Thirdly, we will be able to help to become our regional education centre. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Fourthly, we will be able to limit the exit of financial resources abroad. Fifthly, we can also enable public universities to improve education and research by introducing a healthy competition with non-states. Sixthly, we will be able to put an end to the irrationality of having private schools, but not private universities. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not let another chance be lost. Let us think beyond and above parties about the good of the country, about the good of our children, about the good of the next generations. Let us fight so that our country is not the sad exception. Let us stand up to the circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, I am a deputy general rapporteur, since Mr Katrugalos is missing and I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u253	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u254	Mrs Keramea said - and I have heard it from others - that SYRIZA is going to withdraw the provision, the amendment we have proposed in Article 32. That's make news. We heard it over and over again. There's no such attitude from SYRIZA. We remain in our original proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u255	We're happy about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Jamaklis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kyrame, if the publications you referred to before it is false, will you withdraw what you said? Mr. Dousinas told you that this is not the case. Why bring it back tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u258	I said 'if they are true'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u259	If they're not true, will you withdraw? Because it's weird. In twenty minutes you have been ahead of us and made a full development of the matter. Bravo! Time, ladies and gentlemen, does not allow for much growth, so I shall confine myself to Articles 86, 62 and the unity of rights. In the top parliamentary and political process of the Constitutional Review we must show the highest consensus, not because the Review is politically neutral, but because consensus is a minimum necessary condition for structural reforms in the functioning of the political system, which in many aspects of the suffering, as are citizens and civil servants, are admitted. These pathogens are the fertile ground to bear totalitarian and anti-democratic ideas in the present historical context, ideas that have cost humanity and our homeland hundreds of victims. We are witnessing the attack on parliamentarianism and democracy. In this attack, the answer in this war is the armouring, enlargement and deepening of democracy and its institutions, the armouring, enlargement and deepening of rights, the armouring, enlargement and the deepening of the social state, respect for human value and dignity, respect for diversity. On this ground they cannot bear any Nazi ideas. Therefore, the Members of the parties to the constitutional arch should, with a sense of increased responsibility, consent to proposals that tend to shield the institutions of the parliamentary culture and deepen rights, to proposals that will protect the political system and the political staff themselves, to proposals aimed at the equality of citizens and to the insight into their conviction that the public is aware of a sense of law and seeks to restore the relationship between politics and the citizens who have been brutally beaten by corruption and because of the economic crisis. In this light, the proposal by SYRIZA to amend Article 86 of the Constitution is rightly voted for by an enlarged majority, that is to say, the abolition of the suffocating amortisation deadline for ministerial offences, which actually leads to impunity, should we also take into account the slow pace of justice in our country. The political system and the political staff must not need similar provisions to protect themselves. It must lay down rules for more moral governance, more diligent choice of individuals, more democratic functioning of parties. In view of the fact that employment with the public is voluntary, service of the public interest by positions of increased responsibility cannot tend to serve the own interests which are "assisted" - in introduction to that word - by provisions such as that of Article 86, i.e. provisions which create a sense of impunity. It is not an occupation for those who perceive it as unnecessarily inappropriate. Similarly, the interpretative statement contained in the SYRIZA proposal, which clarifies that any ministerial offences are exempted from the rules laid down in Article 86. Finally, in the same light, the proposed amendment to Rule 62 of the Constitution for parliamentary immunity should be voted in favour, as it restricts it to the absolutely necessary measure, namely offences directly related to the performance of the duties of the Member. With regard to the unity of "individual and social rights", the proposals of the SYRIZA concern the revision of Articles 21 and 22 of the Constitution. The revision of these articles is absolutely essential because the economic crisis has shown many gaps in the Constitution, the provisions of which must be adapted to the present economic and social conditions. The fiscal adjustments, which the country was forced to make, have primarily hit the workers and the economically weak, both in their incomes and in their ability to access health, insurance and welfare services, thereby increasing the sense of insecurity and lack of protection. SYRIZA proposes to guarantee the state, through universal social services and income support, a decent level of living for all, identified by scientific methods, taking into account the current objective social conditions and specifically protecting family, marriage, maternity, children, young people and the elderly, people with disabilities and the needy. It is a proposal with very specific practices, which is achieved either through universal social services or through income support or through their combination. The proposal shall in any event ensure the right to a minimum guaranteed income by any instrument. The SYRIZA proposes that the State guarantee the right to health and must provide universal access to effective health services through the National Health System. The proposal expressly recognised for the first time as a social right - and not just a state duty to care - the right to health, from which the state's obligation to provide universal access to effective health services while at the same time establishing the National Health System. SYRIZA proposes that all employees, regardless of sex, age or other discrimination, should have the right to equal pay for equal value paid work. This broadens the protection of work, since it will not be possible in future to circumvent equal pay as a result of age. It proposes, on the one hand, the safeguarding of collective bargaining for minimum wages and the right to unilateral recourse by the social partners to arbitration and, on the other, to lay down general minimum conditions for the protection of workers by law, but always with respect to the limits laid down by international conventions and the principle of human value. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. SYRIZA proposes that social security should be a right. It proposes that the State should be required to ensure effective protection against all insurance risks through a single universal coverage system within a public redistributive system operating on the basis of the principles of solidarity and recompense. This proposal is therefore expressly recognised as a social right for the first time in social security. Finally, SYRIZA proposes to add to paragraph 7 of Article 21, as follows: ‘Basic social goods, such as water, electricity and their distribution networks, are subject to public service status and are public control’. The aim is to ensure in basic social goods the continuity of the provision of services at affordable prices and high quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, too. Mrs Bakoyannis, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, allow me to make a comment. The Constitution is discussed among the parliamentary groups. There is no government and opposition. And that is no coincidence, because the constitutional legislature wants to seek the greatest possible consensus. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to recommend to the present ministers no matter how much they need to show that they are ministers, those who are Members of Parliament, and those who are not in the seats of the highest state officials, other than the Minister of Justice, who, in particular, must remain. I say this, Mr President, because in democracy the process is not a type of process, it is a fact. We must remember the basics in this Chamber once. Ladies and gentlemen, three years ago in the two hundred years of the Revolution, three years ago, we are separated from a sign date. It's really time to apologize. It is time to see the good and bad times of the political system that we have created. This House has seen glorious moments, especially when the Constitution was being discussed. Mr Panayotopoulos said before, when Constantine Chatsos spoke from this Step and said exactly that the constitutional review obliges us all to consent. It was one of the top moments when the late Stephanakis accepted almost all of the amendments proposed by the then opposition. I would remind you that at that time collision had 54% of the Greek people. What does that prove? It proves that if you really want to make cuts, if you really want to take responsibility for the next generations, we must, for a moment, at a time when the Constitution of the country is being discussed, get away from the party and party hat and see the future of this country, for which we are all legislating here. I would therefore like to appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: to make an effort to get into this logic. You have the majority today, as Constantine Karamanlis once had, who acted in a way. Please behave at least accordingly in your efforts. And I now come to the point, ladies and gentlemen. We have lived for eight years of crisis, eight years of crisis that the Greek people experienced and experienced and suffered. By making the account, we shouldn't say by their name, what led us to this crisis, and also by making our self-criticism, we, me talking to you right now. Is it certain that this crisis was created by the high deficits primarily, Mr Stathakis, from communism, from the client state, from anxieties? Do we agree on that? Because in our private debates we are almost all agreed. So now we have a great opportunity, a unique opportunity: to make the great reform and to be able to implement this reform and not send it ten years later. And, unfortunately, because of a party perception or, if you like, ideological mist, deny it at the moment. You're wrong, ladies and gentlemen. New Democracy's proposal for justice has no party hat. You know that very well. And you know very well that we, who will be government tomorrow, do not want to appoint the heads of justice. We want a board to do it, as we suggest. If you have a better proposal for independence, Mr. Philly, bring her in. We're ready to hear it. But should we decide that justice wants to be cut short, that justice wants modernisation? Let's go to environmental issues. But is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, to be the only country in the world, which thinks that it will be reviewing the constitution and not touching the issue of the environment? Where do you live, gentlemen? Where do you live? One step to take outside Greece, there is no other discussion. You experience it yourself. When you were crying about Matty, you said it was the environment. Is it not time to have a word and to be able to protect this environment more? Don't you understand? Why do you deny it? I'm coming to growth. Is it neoliberal to be a housewife in your finances? But if these deficits led us where they led us, is it neoliberal to want to protect the Greek people from an upcoming, possible similar crisis? Is it neoliberal that we want to have economics, which are balanced? Where did you find this, written, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this? Why do you have to stick to a argument that belongs to yesterday, a argument that does not say anything, to any Greeks at the moment, whether you are neoliberal or all the other crap we hear against the coroner lately? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Is it really that there should be growth in the country? Do we all agree on that? Do we want to do everything we can so that we don't have the anemic growth we have today? Why do you deny the universities? Why do you deny them? Do you feel what the percentage of GDP will be added if private universities operate today in the country? It's gonna be 1.5 percent. One hundred and fifty thousand foreign students who will come and our people will not leave. Who are you laughing at, ladies? Half your children are studying abroad. Why now are we saying things we don't believe? Because if we start to see where everyone's kids are going, you'll be sure to do that, as I do. So let's not be fooled. Refugee what PASOK refused in 2007 and comes today and vote for it and acknowledges its mistake. The greatest disappointment was then George Papandreou, who believed there should be private universities, but in the face of the possible internal political cost, he refused it and we fell back ten years. And right now, you're coming to tell us the same thing about twenty-five years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the world is changing, the world is moving forward. You have an opportunity to vote consciously - and not during the assigned conscience to the party's leader - and see what you really believe and do not stick to yesterday. Give Greece the opportunity to develop and develop fairly. Give the Greeks the minimum social income. Give us the opportunity to disembowel from yesterday and, at least, to enter together in a tomorrow which we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, ten students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Argostoli. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u264	The Minister of Justice, Mr. Kalogerou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u265	With your permission and without any intention of creating any area of confrontation, especially in today's debate and in this process, which, of course, has been in search of political consensus, but on the subject raised by Mrs Bakoyannis, let me say that, in accordance with the provision of Rule 66, which is known in this House - both the Ministers and the State Secretarys can enter each sitting and ask for and take the floor, too, in every procedure without any explicit exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u266	Except for constitutional revision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u267	No, Mrs Bakoyannis, there is no provision at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u268	We've lived through previous constitutional revisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u269	It's not even provided for in the Constitution, which I told you what it says....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u270	...and the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u271	... nor, of course, in the Rules of Procedure of the House, without separating the constitutional review procedure and without separating the ministers into parliamentarians and non-parliamentarians. On the contrary, Mrs Bakoyannis, the procedure with Parliament's Rules of Procedure - 119 - which stipulates the present procedure - provides that Articles 95 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure, namely those which the Bureau and the House apply to the normal legislative procedure, are applied mutatis mutandis, and that the competence of the Minister for Justice, which I am also grateful to you for, is also applicable. From there on, the President announced this morning that, for all these reasons, the Minister for Justice and the Deputy will have the floor for twenty minutes, the ministers exceptionally and in order for the process to run smoothly and have plenty of time, as far as the representation of all the parliamentary groups is concerned, will speak as parliamentarians, while the Ministers and the State Secretarys, who are extra-parliamentary, will not speak at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u272	Why did the President say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u273	In my opinion, therefore, if you would like us, or those of my fellow ministers who are out-of-parliamentary, respect for what is foreseen and in 66 and 119, and also ask for the floor. This is not, in the opinion, a matter of this kind. If, in the end, the issue you raise is spatial planning,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u274	It's a substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u275	...I think these issues have been solved since 66 and since 119, and there's no need for this controversy whether the ministers or the Deputy Ministers will sit here, down or next. In any case, Mr President, if that is the case, the Bureau will tell us. And he should have told us since morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u277	Here, Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, it is no coincidence that Mr Voutsis, an old parliamentarian, said what he said this morning. I've lived three Constitutional Reviews. It always worked. And why was it always true? I repeat: it is a matter of parliamentary groups. The question of the Constitution is not about the government, it is about the Parliament, the majority and the minority. But it's never happened before. And what I said is not a matter of spatial planning, as I have heard from a high point of view. It's a matter of substance. If we are talking in this House about the revision of the Constitution, if anything, to stick to the formulas. Do you want the rule to be unwritten? You want to prove it in practice? Let's call it that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In any case, in democracy - I repeat - the process is not a type. That is why Mr Katrugalos sits in the parliamentary seat and does not sit in the cabinet, because he knows something from this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u279	There's Mr. Katrugalos, who's a rapporteur. Would you like to express an opinion on this matter, Mr Katrugale?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u280	Why, Mr President? Don't waste time...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, it is clear - and indeed it is one of the elements that differs from the constitutional reform of republics by monarchal regimes - that in the democratic regimes only Parliament and no one else, any element of it, any factor of executive power, is not involved in the Review. For this reason and the revised resolution is published by the President of Parliament and not by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u282	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u283	From that point on, however, it does not mean that a Minister who does not want to participate in the parliamentary procedure has no right to monitor this procedure from the ministerial offices. Others. Therefore, respect for the House must be attributed. We have never had a different attitude on this. Although I did not attend the previous debate, I was coming anyway for a statement. The last half hour, an hour, I've received a lot of calls. It appears as a fake news that I have said that it is the SYRIZA as a whole or as a certain number of its Members to withdraw his support for Rule 32. As long as this was at the level of make news, I thought that, in any case, it is one of the issues that should be dealt with in the way false news that undermines democracy. Hannah Arndt said that democracy cannot function if the facts themselves are disputed, because on what basis is the conflict going to take place? But I was very surprised to hear that the New Democracy has been placed on these make-ups. That's a lot bigger sliding. When the New Democracy does what I have described at the outset - because I wanted to be mild - parliamentary vulgar, that is to say that it will vote on a provision which does not agree and supplements this atom with the worst, it will be placed on a statement that has never been made, so you can see whether it is a position of responsibility to Parliament. I would like to say to you, therefore, that the debate in committee - and so far in plenary - has gone well, because we respect each other, because we do not resort to make news and because we always speak on the basis of parties' positions. I would ask you, therefore, to have the elementary parliamentary morale, which should not make you fit into make news.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u284	No parliamentary morale, Mr. Katrugale! Are you going to teach us parliamentary ethos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u285	The make news is make news. So I say to you that the same respect you are calling on us to show against parliamentaryism, we are showing it with our attitude. We respect you as parliamentary women and parliamentary men and ask you for the same. It seems totally paradoxical to me when I give you this honour to return it to me in this way. Therefore, Mr President - to explain - this is the highest point in a country's legal culture. We're changing the Constitution. We must change it responsibly, seriously and not make news and above all by not humiliating ourselves as parliamentary parties, by commenting on statements that do not exist. We all need to show the responsibility that fits in the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u287	Mrs. Bakoyannis, please don't have a dialogue. I would ask that we do not have a debate and that this matter be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u288	For just a minute, Mr President. Mr. Catrugale, when we put it in place, we did it very seriously. When too many instruments talk about your own statement, Mrs Keramos carefully said 'if they are true'. We were told by your colleague, Mr Doussina. We told him that we thank him very much and we are pleased about that. And the conversation is closed. I would ask you, therefore, to learn a great deal of parliamentary ethos from a party which does not even understand what the meaning means, because you tried in your first answer to match the two, the New Democracy does not accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u289	Please close this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u290	Revoking the New Democracy Members who have been placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u291	Please close the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u292	With the revocation from the side of the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u293	Mrs. Christodoulopoulos is waiting to speak. He's a Vice-President of the House, and I apologize to her personally. He came to talk and, you see, he sat next door and that thing isn't right. I give the floor to Mrs Christodoulou to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u295	Mr Papatheodorou, we will open the matter and ask others for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u296	No, Mr President, let's close it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u297	I'll talk for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u298	Are you asking for a personal reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u299	As a parliamentary representative, because he was placed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u300	Please don't open a new subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u301	We are not opening a new subject, Mr President. On the subject of that particular case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u302	All right, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u303	In other words, after the general rapporteur of the Government, we remain - because this is what I want to confirm - that SYRIZA, by means of his general rapporteur, confirms the position that nothing has changed in relation to Article 32 and the proposal of the SYRIZA. If that is the case, Mr Katrugale, welcome absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u304	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u305	Listen to it, because what matters isn't... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] As you can see, SYRIZA's colleagues do not want to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u306	There's no question of talking. Let's close this thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u307	What matters, Mr President, is not whether the journalists have taken SYRIZA's position well or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u308	Let's close this thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u309	Listen to me, please. I'm done. It doesn't matter, then, whether the journalists understood this well. It is important what the rapporteur-general says. If, therefore, the rapporteur-general confirms that Article 32 does not have any change in relation to the proposal, I think that is the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u310	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u311	Please, Minister, this is an end. Don't open it again, please. Let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, I fully respect you and I would not have placed it if the previous position were not followed. It's like leaving the topic open, meaning - by implying - that there was my previous statement, while I was clear, referring to take news.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u313	You've been denying that. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u314	And I must say - although I do not see Mrs Bakoyannis - that when something is said to the detriment of my fellow Members, the hypothetical reasons are not enough, it must be denied, withdrawn, which I did not see. Otherwise remember - you are old, older than me - the old tactics of lawyers to write unsubstantiated phrases about the opponent and then have a reference and say "seven words are deleted", so that they may read, but they may not be revoked and there will not be recorded to move against them. We must be honest in our conduct and be honest. That is why we should have mutual respect not only to each other's faces, but to the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u315	Mrs. Bakoyannis invoked a customary topic. However, the Rules of Procedure do not differ in the constitutional debate. The Rules of Procedure of the House are not different. It has been made customary, but the Rules of Procedure are clear. Here, Mrs. Christodoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u317	Look, Mrs. Christodoulopoulos is waiting half an hour. I'll give you after the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u318	All right, Mr. Jawara, wait. I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u319	I can't understand that. Poorly it goes to the Step when it comes to the issue and there is an open debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u320	I've been up to Stepma long before, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u321	I'm addressing the President. I am a parliamentary representative and, finally, everyone should know their rights in this Chamber under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u322	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u323	You were represented by others.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u324	That's your assessment. It's not about anyone except you. I don't want to comment anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u325	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u326	Please, let the tons fall. We are talking for no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u328	You'll have him right after. You'll have him. Mrs Christodoulopoulos is waiting so long.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u329	Good. Well, I respect him, and I'll have him right after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u330	I think we all agree that the debate on the Revision of the Constitution is an excellence procedure. Why is it an upheaval procedure? For there is neither the interpretation of time nor the interpretation of the place the House discusses the subject of the Review. So we need to think about what happened yesterday, what is happening today and what we are looking forward to tomorrow. With these three parameters we can talk seriously about his Constitution and Review and stand on solid legs. So what happened yesterday and how should it be answered? They have all said - and Mrs Bakoyannis said before - about the eight-year experience of the memoranda. So, what happened during the memorials? He bears the Constitution? Did many colleagues say that he could withstand the Constitution? Is it really lasting? I'll put it differently. The memorials were imposed, a savage coercion and discipline of society was imposed, within one hour there was a violent wage and pension cut, a number of public sector sectors were privatised, the crisis that emerged in this House was so manifest, that they went away, MPs were deleted and there was a dynamic process in this direction. So tell me where did the Constitution last? We therefore think that the Constitution is a proclamation text, but it is also a substance text which regulates the issues of state and public administration, the relationship between citizens and civil relations between them, we think we should discuss the extreme phenomena that have occurred during the memoranda, because for us the memorials were a trauma, it was not an opportunity. It was a trauma for us that he became the prime minister of a banker who had no parliamentary status. It was a trauma for us that the creditors decided how to move, how to live and how to breathe. It was a trauma to us that there was no possibility of social claim, so that this regime could be overthrown. So, on that basis, we are making our specific proposals for the revision of the Constitution. I shall mention, for example, three, four provisions, to explain what I am saying. First of all, we are putting the provision of Article 28(2) under review, which provides that, in cases where international conventions are concluded which deport or reduce or eliminate national and popular sovereignty, a referendum should be held. It is not possible without a referendum for a country to be so suffocating pressure, such economic barbarism, without the people being able to express themselves. So the first thing we suggest is that. The second thing we are proposing is that politics belongs to politicians, to those who have democratic legitimacy and who are elected by Greek citizens. A banker, a technocrat, out of nowhere, cannot become a prime minister so that he can take steps that the political class at that time dared not take. Thirdly, it is not possible for Members to view the House as a career. It must be limited for the number of terms to be higher than twelve years, so that Members really leave a political footprint, but do not have politics, because we see the various phenomena that happen either by succession or by any media platform or business elite. Finally, we experienced as a trauma that there could not be a reason for its independence in this country. You remember that for the Memorandum some citizens resorted to justice and that the Council of State had given an opinion that the memorandum was compatible with the Constitution. You will also remember - because most of you were Members of Parliament at the time - that there had been dozens of objections of anti-constitutionality and then the government and now opposing civilisation claimed that what was happening in the country was absolutely constitutional. Now, with what credibility can we discuss yesterday and what we need to do to ensure that the same phenomena are not repeated? But let us come to today and, indeed, to the recent one. They are mocked, slandered by MPs who practice, vote and express their opinion in accordance with their free conscience. This, ladies and gentlemen, is provided for in Article 60 of the Constitution. And yet, you call them 'Curriculans', 'apostates', 'extortionees', 'payers'. So what do you think? Does the MP have freedom of conscience to do and say anything? And, if so, why are you making all this fuss? Why are you mocking the Members who sent the letter to account for the government majority and creating such a doro, because you think SYRIZA cannot rule? So, for the time being, we can understand that neither the Constitution respects nor has any proposal for a way out of the crisis. I must remind you here that in the first Review House - fifth in a row - which took place after the fall of the junta, a proposal was made by the Member who leaves a party to lose his parliamentary status. And even though the memories of the '63-65 period were fresh, with the apostasy, this proposal was not accepted. Recurred in 2008. Nor was it accepted then. What exactly do you want? If you want to talk about today, make such a proposal so that the House can deal with it and regulate it. Otherwise, please respect the Constitution, not insult people, not mocking policies that rely on freedom of conscience. And we're coming to tomorrow. Tomorrow in what way can it really be checked so that the same things are not repeated? On what proposal? The proposal of the New Democracy is balanced budgets. What's that supposed to mean? It means that the policy of redistribution of income is being abolished, that it is forbidden. What is at stake will be there, since the budgets are in balance. This issue means that the Constitution itself abolishes social competition, the class struggle we used to call it. Because there are struggles to increase social rights. We shall say: 'No, do we not increase wages, pensions, because we want balanced budgets?' This proposal also provides for the retroactive legitimacy of the memorandums. For these, the memorials were the great opportunity for lenders to make the difficult and the political cost. Nevertheless, they accepted it, but the Greek society understands exactly what was played during the memorials. I therefore believe that, today, if we need to reflect, it is on these three dimensions of time, yesterday, today and tomorrow. The SYRIZA proposals respond to these three dimensions, because we believe that the political system is in a transitional phase. The New Democracy cannot understand the liquidity of the political landscape as it stands today. We have understood it, and that is why we voted on the simple analogue, and we want to establish it in constitutional terms. He does not understand what is hidden and what are the underground routes of society towards all these issues that have been raised and which have really destroyed it and economically and existentially and socially. On the basis of this, then, I think it is time to really speak and say that the Constitution and the review process are not a legal exercise, it is not a matter of experts. It is a very lively political process - and so the Greek people must follow it - which highlights the political issues, the political gaps, the lack of institutional counterweights that have led to this tragedy - because a real tragedy was the time of the memorials - so that we can ensure that it will not be repeated. So proposals that even give the highest education on the market - because that has been what you have done for seven years with the memoranda, all in the market, all in private capital - and even this, to understand what political framework it is, so that it can understand that, like social security, you want it, in the spirit of Chile, you want it to be private, so you want it to be private, as you have tried to do with water, with energy, and that we are reinstated as public goods in need of protection. So here, we're going to be confronted. You should understand that the discussions on the process and on the issue of whether or not the revision articles in the Constitution are directed is about the terrible insecurity of the New Democracy about whether to win the elections. You should know, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the only review procedure that does not have the confidence that the House will be the same as the House proposed. In all previous revisions it was the same government that made the proposal and the same government that voted for it. That's what they're fighting for, that's why they put all these issues in place. It has been defeated and panic about the challenge of the elections, because the only trauma that New Democracy has experienced these years is that it was not in the government. This wound has experienced and this is trying to heal and, as long as it takes, they lose their temper and lose the possibility of serious treatment and serious dialogue within Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u333	As soon as the Minister of Justice has finished his speech, Mr Kalogerou, I had given the floor to Mrs Christodoulopoulos, who came here. Mrs Bakoyannis asked for the floor, this prolonged dialogue took place and waited. You're noble. It's logical he spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u334	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u335	I didn't remove your word, Mr. Javarra. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u336	I have the right to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u337	Of course you do. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u338	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a good thing, however, that we are not talking about injuries in this Chamber, because if there is someone who carries a wound over time into this place, that is the trauma that the Left is always trying to heal, a revolution that he is pretending to have not realized that he has already been and failed. That's the one. The second: I respect and appreciate the Minister for Justice, but because the question of who is the sole body of the review procedure was put at the beginning of today's debate and, indeed, by decision of the President of Parliament, it has already been clarified that only Members are entitled to take the floor. Why? For precisely this procedure is a procedure which, firstly, is provided for in Rule 110 of the Constitution and in Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of Rule 119 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the proposal and the report of the committee, which has drawn up the proposals in their entirety, is precisely on a special agenda. All general provisions are known to apply on specific agendas to the extent, of course, that they are adapted or can be adapted in the context of the rules in force. The framework of the rules in force, I repeat, is that the exclusive competence of the Constitution is in Parliament, so only the Members of Parliament, and not the ministers who do not have a parliamentary status, are entitled to speak. This matter is unsolved. Now, if there is also a question of the presence of the Minister of Justice, this is also a problem, and no one raises such a problem, because, although it does not result from any explicit provision of the Rules of Procedure or of the Constitution, the Minister of Justice has introduced a traditional parliamentary tradition which none of us can conceive of questioning. That is what I believe was the spirit of the debate that took place at the beginning of the procedure, and in that spirit the debate is still taking place. Now, if some people in the Minister's capacity feel that in this sacred process that we are going through today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, their presence in the government headquarters will give them something about their communication image, this is their issue and it is not about the process that we are going through and which we are going on in a perfect way. So Mrs Bakoyannis wanted to point out and did not want - to God - to raise the subject of Rules of Procedure. Now, as far as I am concerned - and I am finishing - the fact of the fast news is, it is obvious that my colleague has actually been informed, either by a website or by a newspaper, but perhaps also by discussions that have taken place in the Chamber, that this possibility exists. On the basis of the fact that Mr Dousinas, with all honesty and honesty, said that this is not the case, that there is no question of debate, and from that point on, I think that the matter is now over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u341	Because the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy spoke, asking for the floor beforehand...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, I have spoken...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u343	You don't want him. I'm saying this so we don't get any misunderstandings. Mrs Vakis will speak and then the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, who has asked for the floor. Please shorten. Mrs Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr President. I did not intend to speak because the matter was resolved before and the Minister for Justice spoke in detail. I think that if there should be a field and a point of confrontation right now in this Chamber, it is about this leak that has occurred and what is said on the site has been leaked from your party... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Wait a minute. Fake news, literally take news about Article 32. So when a leak on a site is reproduced by the Step of the House in the leading act of democracy, which is the Constitutional Review...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u345	What's the problem? Do you charge a lewdness to my colleague? Say it boldly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u346	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u347	I describe and record what happened. This, Mr Javarra, will allow me to say that we need to be a little concerned about our democracy. In any case, because I think it is a process - I do not think it is the Constitution - which has to be carried out with consensus, with respect for each other, with confidence and calmness, and because it is a real shame to disturb this good climate, I would like to say to you - you referred to the matter beforehand for the ministers - that it is indeed a process that is taking place between Parliamentary groups, that only the Members - and quite rightly so - take the floor. If, of course, there are extra-parliamentary ministers who have not taken any of them. If the problem, which is an old parliamentary method, concerns where they have to sit, and we believe that this affects the procedure, whether they are sitting in these seats or in others, then let them decide. I believe, however, that adequate explanations have been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u348	Please, Mrs Vakis, I think this issue has been resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u349	It has been solved and it is a pity to disturb a good climate of calm and consensus, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u350	Please, the President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u351	I do not want to talk about these issues. I just want to make a statement about the procedure to be clear tomorrow. But, by the way, I have to say that I wonder how this conversation even took place. This morning, we solved everything. As the state keeps up with, the House has to do with it all the time. It is not, that is, everyone at a time when we come to repeat ourselves. It is therefore clear that ministerial seats can also say that it is also their duty to monitor Parliament's procedures when they are allowed by their Ministry and by their jobs, all the ministers, whether or not they have the right to intervene in the procedure. I am telling you this because, in the procedure for the Rules of Procedure of the House and in the procedure for the budget of the House, which are completely autonomous and only for the groups in Parliament, it is fortunate that there were interested ministers, women and men who were simply following the procedure when they did not have the right to speak. So, too, it is absolutely unsolved and it has nothing to do with anyone's communication attitude, as the dear Mr. Javarras has made a hint. I just want to say - because I have heard a speech earlier - about tomorrow's procedure, that, as we said this morning, at 10 a.m. tomorrow morning, we will also discuss the incident that has been raised and on which Mr Katrugalos and Mr Lovers have been briefed following the meeting of the rapporteurs. The debate will take place, in accordance with the relevant Rule, from five minutes to the Members of Parliament or from those who wish to vote on this question, so that tomorrow's procedure will also run to the end with a fully clarified landscape. I'm telling you about 10 a.m. because it sounded earlier that it was best to do it at 12 noon, and that was related to saying that until 12 noon tomorrow, but that's not accurate either. They can all be at 13.00 hours or at 11.00 hours the parties can give the ballots, how they want the articles to be written. That's technical. It's not a political matter. The other one, the politician, will be solved in the morning at 10:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. We are on our way with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u353	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in the final straight line of the Constitutional Review process from this House. Through the meetings of the committee, it is now understandable what the Civic Opposition has said since the beginning, that the ruling party has progressed consciously to an incomprehensible review exercise, while the political life of the place is being muddled with your responsibility for decommissioning and election polarization, without the necessary political consensus, which is the foundation of the longevity of the constitutional texts. You have chosen to proceed with a review process that is cut and stitched to the measures of your election planning. There is also a condensation of the work of the committee responsible. For the last four years you have been stirring up the undermining of political institutions, turning the economic crisis into an institutional one. This is your sad account, for which you will soon be judged by the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution is the leading democratic process. The 1975 Constitution was the foundation of political and democratic normality in the country. Any attempt to revise it must contribute to the expansion of democracy beyond micro-party games and political purposes. Unfortunately, the emblematic points of the SYRIZA review proposal are, with the exception of exceptions, a few more communication vacancies. I will mention features of the ruling party's proposal for Article 3 of the Constitution to guarantee the State's religious neutrality. Article 3, ladies and gentlemen, serves the historicity of the Greek State's relations with the Church and regulates the relations of the Greek state with the Ecumenical Patriarchate. It is therefore wrong to claim that its possible revision can regulate differently the relationships of State - Church. The most important thing is, however, that no restriction on the exercise of religious freedom is founded on the current Constitution. So the debt of this House is not to let these tricks become a brake on the real needs of the place. The task of this House is not to allow your dissolutionist logic to prevail. It is in this direction that your proposal for the introduction of simple proportional to electoral law, defying that insolence and political instability have often led the place to fatal errors. This is what modern history teaches us, but also the political deadlocks in which we have been found. The bill, however, is always called upon to be paid by the Greek people. In attempting to restore your lost contact with the people, you are resorting to the work of the Constitution. The place needs no more referendums to be cured by poor political decisions. I would remind you that in 2015 we were almost out of the European Union with the misleading referendum that you held to make the Greek people co-responsibly responsible for your edict. Strengthening citizens' participation in the political decision-making process means no more referendums. It means strengthening the people's confidence in democratic institutions and the efficiency of governments. Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of parliamentary stability, the immunisation of the concept of isology, the modernisation of the justice and functioning of the independent authorities are some of the basic common guidelines that emerged from this process, of course, as the revised House clearly does not commit itself to the content of these guidelines. There was a lot of talk about Rule 32, in which we agree on the direction, namely the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the early dissolution of Parliament and elections. For what Mr Katrugalos said at the end, we can't exactly know. What we can say, though, is, after the outcry, we have avoided total humiliation and you can, ladies and gentlemen, here and now promise to vote on all SYRIZA Members...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u354	What are you talking about? Please! It's a lie. The man said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u355	What are you talking about? But where did you get these?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u356	Please, ladies and gentlemen, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u357	... all the articles of your review proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u358	When a Member speaks...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u359	Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, you will remain in history as the party that voted against itself. We're warning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u360	Here's who's leaking them. It seemed who's leaking them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u361	Did you find them in non paper? We had a whole conversation before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u362	Mrs. Vaki, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u363	Another issue we should raise is that, unfortunately, once again, a historic opportunity for a radical reform of higher education is lost, a reform that would mean upgrading public universities, more academic freedom and more opportunities for investing in human capital. The Greek society, under the responsibility of PASOK in 2008 and SYRIZA now, has been condemned for a long time to the state monopoly of higher education, which has been merged daily with the signature of SYRIZA by the immunity and declining images, as the other educational steps have been taken by the complete depreciation of the concept of excellence and progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u364	Atrocities! To be so supportive of lies, you must leak them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Igoumenides, please! Don't interrupt. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u366	Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs the political will for unity and renewal, which will promote economic and social progress. Greek citizens need proper political foundations to restore their confidence in democratic institutions again. We have a historical responsibility to fight together with society to resist the rise of populism and demagogy. Our group, which has long been faithful to its liberal democratic principles, has recommended a revision proposal far from ideological verbalism. We propose the constitutional protection of the country's European orientation and the need for social prosperity through development, modernisation of the state, justice and parliamentary institutions. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] We place in the crisis of all the democratic forces of the Greek Parliament all of the articles of our proposal so that the next Review House - and after the crisis of the sovereign Greek people - decides on the content of the revised articles. The country needs a great collective effort to get back on its feet. A institutional guarantor in this effort can be a more democratic and modern constitution, the Greek Constitution and not a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u368	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u369	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u370	Mr President, I wanted to say about Article 3 which I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u371	Then you'll talk and you'll tell them. Mr. Psychogios, SYRIZA MP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u372	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the completion of the work of the Committee on Constitutional Revision, which I myself have been a member of, we now come to plenary, a leading process for democracy and parliamentary reform. After a thorough dialogue, which took place in the committee, the views of all the parties on the proposals and provisions under review were expressed. Of all this fertile, in general, we had the opportunity to see some convergences with the rest of the orders, but of course the Nazi Golden Dawn that is seeking is to abolish both the Constitution and democracy. But also with the other forces on several issues, unfortunately, we remain two worlds with different priorities, different values and targets. We have heard of a Constitution of Happiness by the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, I think a little improper and misguided, for the level of Mr Tasoula, but, in any case, to prove himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u373	I also put in quotes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u374	All right, then, all right. In any case, however, you may say transportly that the institutions will be happy with these changes with which we are strengthening them or that the marginal social groups and social groups will be happy through them. You might mean that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u375	Then I wouldn't put in quotes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u376	Okay. Or on financial terms, to which you have referred, where we are actually in place to institutionalise neoliberalism, and that is not out of date at all, I will be allowed to say, our criticism, because, at the moment, the consolidation and consolidation of the so-called self-regulation of the market and of course the logic of profit and damage to everything has led to an increase in inequality. Finally, we have heard from the General rapporteur of KINAL that we have no idea or have no picture of what citizens say about constitutional reform. I think that the citizens are saying - and in the constant contact I have with them - that they want to raise their wages, they want collective labour contracts, which have been done in several branches, even in OAED programmes with allowances, they want to have full access to the National Health System, whether they are insured or uninsured, with well-paid hospitals, with clinics and staff who have already increased and less involved in medicines. They also want a state and a state that is consistent with its obligations towards citizens without discounts, but they also respect the customs and traditions of every place and see the work of certain priests there, but also their role as religious officials. There is no controversy between one and the other. So the provisions which we are proposing make it clear that the political and institutional tops of the SYRIZA on 'the fairness of policy', as has been described by some in the Constitution, are the highest national legal text. These peaks and final proposals have not been made vacant, which is why they are not fireworks, but mature demands, primarily of society itself, such as what I mentioned earlier. They are proposals reflecting the sad experience of the Greek people in the years of the crisis and the memoranda. And that the Constitution may have acted as an impediment or a bulwark for some freedoms and social guarantees, but it turned out that there were serious circumventions and gaps of protection. So in our overall effort to heal wounds, restore injustices and defend the most vulnerable social groups affected by the crisis, in our efforts to strengthen democracy and national sovereignty, we listen very carefully to the needs of society and the movement, which has strongly resisted all these years against neoliberal austerity policies and achieved significant victories. What, then, are these proposals and peaks? Firstly, the strengthening of social and individual rights through the explicit reference to the universal access of the population to healthcare and health, the guarantee of public control of social goods such as water and electricity, the defence of labour rights through collective agreements and collective bargaining. Ensuring the guaranteed income and a decent standard of living for all, protecting life, honor and freedom, without discrimination on the basis of sex, gender identity and sexual orientation, as reflected in all international texts. Also, the religious neutrality of the state, with respect for the distinct roles of State and Church. The establishment of a proportional system in the national and self-government elections, which has already started to release forces and strengthen participation. We are also defending the ceiling for Members' term of office, so that it no longer produces the Greek political system of professional politicians. Of course, the change in Article 86 about 'the criminal liability of the ministers', so that we do not see any more political factors using their position to cover scandals, conflict and corruption in the future. These are the main axes. On this point, however, I would also like to focus on one of our specific proposals, which I have also developed in committee. It is our proposal to explicitly include in Article 102(2), among other things, the possibility of electing and being elected to the self-government elections for foreigners who live permanently and legally in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, after I have made it quite clear that this will be done in the next Review House, because we have also seen the take news that we are talking about these elections, at which point we have reached the Greek Parliament - I want to stress the fact that there are many of our fellowmen who have lived for many years in the country with full legalization documents, with participation in the activities of local communities, with a significant contribution to the development of the country and who have married Greek and Greek women. Despite this substantial linkage and integration of local communities, they do not have the right to co-decide on the administration of their city and thus lack the opportunity to exercise fundamental rights and the obligations arising from this right. Of course, this issue does not concern us for the first time. There was - as you well know - and Law 3838/2010 predicting the participation of foreigners in local government I degree, with specific conditions and differences, but it was considered to be unconstitutional by the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State with a strong minority, which it considered, using the minutes of the 2001 Review Committee, that, on the basis of the provisions in force, foreigners' participation is not excluded, but is equally included. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is also noteworthy that, in other countries of the European Union for many years now, it has introduced this right in their constitutional law and I am talking about Ireland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Spain and other countries, which proves and constitutes a necessary treaty to include such an explicit addition to Article 102(2). In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of our proposals for the Constitutional Review, in order to create a constitution that is alive and modern, which has been taught - in introductory form, I too, Mr Tasoula - and is facing the wounds of the past. It is a Constitution that will respond to the needs of the social majority and will pave the way for equality and social justice, but without exclusion, without invisible groups of people and without privileges for the few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, too. Mrs. Thalerite, SYRIZA Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by answering a key question, in my opinion: why did we choose and proceed with the constitutional revision now, at this juncture? As is well-known and mentioned by many speakers, the economic crisis has not only built up the country's socio-economic life, but has made the paths of the political system manifest, marginalised the constitutional bodies of the state and, obviously, made the state's structures change. Apart from the sufferings of the political system, therefore, it has brought about depreciating the right to work, deregulation and the labour market. It has caused serious breaches of rights, which in many cases have been abolished or lifted a few days or hours, and most importantly it has created the crisis of representativeness, by jeopardising citizens' confidence in the political system and in the institutions of democracy, with all the risks it entails. So today we must meet this need - and because we have talked a lot about injuries - healing the injuries and adopting institutional counterweight to this new reality. It is important, therefore, today in this Review to form consensus, not because there is a common ideological concept, and not because we need to leave this aside, as Mrs Bakoyannis said, but because we need to look particularly at the removal of the factors that have eroded the democratic and legal character of the civil society, we need to restrain and see exactly how we should deal with them. What are we doing and what are we planning? To deepen democracy and strengthen people's sovereignty, strengthen and broaden rights, restore the relationship of confidence, which has come to ruin, that is, with the political system and democracy and strengthen the decentralisation of the political and administrative system. I begin with the first one, the deepening of democracy and the strengthening of popular sovereignty. Here we attach particular importance to greater representativeness, with the introduction of mere proportional nationally and locally. We are strengthening direct democracy both at national and local level, and especially at local level with local assemblies, referendums and popular initiatives. We are giving the possibility of legislative initiative for both the citizens who have the right to vote and - why not, I would say - for the institutional representatives of local government, on matters of responsibility for local government. Secondly, we strengthen and broaden rights and protect public goods. Mrs Christodoulopoulos referred to this. I will not go into the way in which we protect public goods, water, energy, education, health, etc. I consider, however, extremely serious the strengthening of the rights for Article 102 to which Mr Psychogios referred, that we must recognise the political rights of citizens of third countries who live and work in Greece, namely the right to vote and stand in local government for foreigners who live permanently and legally on Greek territory. It is an important issue of democracy and it responds to the objective of their effective integration into the respective local communities. Here, let me remind you that this right of citizens of third countries to elections to local government does not concern us for the first time in Greece. Already under Law 3838/2010, they were expected to participate in the first degree local government elections. These provisions were applied only in the 2010 self-government elections, as they were then decided, as you know, to be unconstitutional with the decision of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State. So I think it is very important that we should be able to talk about this vote. We are now coming - and I shall refer more specifically to local government. In local government, then, we can say that the 2001 Review has changed a great deal and there have been significant institutional changes in the functioning and organisation of local authorities. However, they did not solve key functions of the administrative and political system. So here we come today and say that, in order to solve and deal with these malfunctions, we need to talk about a brave change, the restructuring of the political and administrative system. And why are we talking about a brave restructuring of the political and administrative system? Because we think it is time that the central administration should have an effective role and the first and second degrees should be able to fulfil its responsibilities. It is therefore very important to see the revision of Article 101. So what is foreseen there? It is predicted that the central government will be able to legally define the way of regional organisation, and that is what we say, so that it can be possible either horizontally or vertically to organise central administration at regional level. However, what is important is that local government should be an institution of local decentralisation. This should be the intersection - if we want - in this constitutional review, and that is what we need to pursue. The second important thing we need to do, if we want to have a cut and move on to the 2001 Review, is that local government agencies must have a presumption of competence for all the public affairs that suit them, based on the principles of proximity and subsidiarity, as laid down in the European Local Charter of Autonomousity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What does that mean? It means that we are coming and expanding, giving and defining the concept of local affairs and public policies, and so we can deal with all these functions and duplication of responsibilities that we are currently seeing, experience and face up to our everyday lives. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And here, let me refer to Mrs Christophilopoulou, who called SYRIZA's proposal on local self-government "CLISTEN" and "to work on the constitution". I assume that it is only about the introduction of a mere analogous, although I find it difficult to understand KINAL's disagreement on the introduction of mere analogous - it was a constant request for self-government, than I remember - but I find it even more difficult to understand where it disagrees with the presumption of competence in public affairs in Ottawa when Mrs Christophilopoulou herself says that the exercise of exclusive powers can be carried out from the first and second degrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u379	Please finish, Mrs. Thelerite.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u380	I can't understand the disagreement. I think that Mrs Christophilopoulou does not have the same approach as her colleagues who participated in the Committee on Constitutional Revision and therefore did not vote for the revision of these articles. Therefore, since we agree that the 2001 Review has strengthened local government with new responsibilities, it has introduced extremely important institutional guarantees, this Constitutional Review is called upon to deprive local government of its centralised tendencies, upgrade it and make it an equal component of the country's administrative system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Christoforos Papadopoulos, Member of SYRIZA, 2nd Athens, has the floor for seven minutes and with respect for time if you are kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u382	Ladies and gentlemen, there are at least three reasons why we decided to initiate the constitutional review procedure. They are not the same reasons as Mrs Bakoyannis, for example, because we have a different reading of the crisis and the memoranda, perhaps because we have a different assessment of the priorities of the Greek society. For us, first of all, one element of the crisis is the crisis of politics, the crisis of political representation, a crisis that now concerns all party systems around the world. This crisis is seen by the abstention of the citizens of elections, by the indifference of political integration from small trade union participation and by the establishment of anti-political parties, a disease that we have met in our own country. In Greece this crisis was so great and so intense that forty years of strong bi-groupism were dissolved in a few months, in a few years. Of course, we know the suffering and extent of the memorials. But even though we are done with the commission, the wounds in democracy have not been healed. The feeling of trust in the political system has not been restored and, unfortunately, the citizens are right. For us, the primary is the relegation of politics and culture. In order to do this with our own assessment, with our own proposals, it passes through a series of changes, through a series of transformations, such as religious neutrality and political oath, such as the safeguarding of social rights and civil liberties, the prohibition of discrimination, including sexual orientation and gender identity, the introduction of direct democracy, the change of the law on responsibility of Ministers, the change of electoral law to a mere analogue, the limited traditions of MPs and other articles to be reviewed. The second reason why we must lay the foundation - because this is how political competition is becoming, consciences are earned, a tendency to transform - is that all these years have been expressed through the collective action of the citizens and the participation in the social protest of mature social perseverances which we are not entitled to write, we are not entitled to overlook. We are obliged to legislate. You know, in our constitutional and legal context, it is not only the will of the above, the will of the powerful but also the correlation of power, the struggles and beliefs of the bottom-up, the working class, in other words, the popular strata. That is why we have a social security system, which is why we have a social protection system, so we have public health and education, when we know that thirty years of neoliberalism the first concern that existed was the delivery of every public service to private profit. We are told by colleagues from old bipartisanism that they have nothing to do with neoliberalism. One single figure: six hundred four thousand jobs were lost between 2009 and 2012. Do you know what a shock is? The two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. This demolition of the social state, with a small number, can only be understood in terms of bienniality. There is also a third reason why we are making the constitutional review. It has to do with the expectations of our people, if you like. Despite the losses and the distortions and drawbacks we have had because of the memoranda, we want to give the country a progressive democratic heritage worthy of dignity, equality and freedom for every citizen. That is why we do not consent to the deeply conservative and neoliberal constitutional pursuits of the Anti-Population Officer. We are not reviewing Article 16 to establish private universities proposed by the Opposition, namely to increase inequalities in the educational world. We will not weaken Article 24 for environmental protection. We will not constitutionally establish the balanced budgets proposed by the New Democracy with the KINAL nor will we attach social rights to budgetary objectives. We want - on the contrary - to clarify the concept of leniency so that justice becomes more flexible, more human and more just. We want to safeguard the autonomy of local government. In short, ladies and gentlemen, with the constitutional review that we are proposing and with the public word that we support, we are creating the political material that we now want to be legal material for a society of equality and prosperity. And that's totally useful. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute. Indeed, it is useful at the time when far-right smiling across Europe, while the failed and deeply reactionary doctrine of neoliberalism defines the decisions of the European Union and, at the same time, makes the disastrousness of citizens to a structure that cares less and less for the needs of many. And these at a time when war and the threat of war are scaring people's hearts. In this landscape we want to be the city of peace, the place of progressive, social and economic policies, the territory of equality and civil liberties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u383	Thank you Mr. Christoforos Papadopoulos, MP SYRIZA in 2nd Athens. Mr. Thodoris Dritsas, MP SYRIZA I Piraeus, followed by Mr. Ioannis Theochemistos. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. I must admit that I was very surprised to hear Mrs Bakoyannis say that, for the reasons of bankruptcy, we all here, in our private debates, agree and must have what she said, since it is common to admit and imprint them both in our policy and in the constitutional review. I do not know in any private debate that I have participated with many of SYRIZA's colleagues and comrades to find a common place with New Democracy for the interpretation of the causes of bankruptcy. We, where we are also in public and private life, have supported as causes of bankruptcy in combination, and I will not say them hierarchically and with a prioritisation the preoccupation and anarchy of international financial markets in synergy with their domestic partners, deficient democracy, social inequalities and weak social state, tax evasion, a lack of basic productive planning, the disseminating of public wealth and engulfment of public spending on private enrichment, and, finally, the fragmented state bureaucracy. I may be omissioning something, but I think these are coherent elements of a painful adventure and of the well-being period and then of bankruptcy. If Mrs Bakoyannis thinks she agrees, because that is what we are saying in our private debates, we can indeed have a good starting point to see what needs to be done. It is certain that the Constitution cannot give any answers to all of this on its own. Politics will give answers. Society, participation, programming, struggles, all that will give answers to the post-accident period for the reintegration and the country's new perspective. We cannot, however, say that the experience of pain really of all the elements that make up and form a reality experienced will not take into account it in order to revise the provisions of the Constitution, rather than move to a kind, in a constitutional assembly where we propose everything. When you propose everything, you do not propose anything, you simply create a landscape, so that it can be discussed and you do not plan real changes that are sustainable. The Constitution may, in fact, be strengthened in its critical areas, in its critical capitals, to give antibodies to everything that has happened in the past, so that they do not happen again and open up new roads. From this point of view, the debate in the committee was very different from the debate that is taking place here today and was of far higher quality and deeper depth. It is also the different way in which a debate is held in a committee. The Committee's architecture is different. However, there was dialogue, there was deepening, there were clarifications. There has been an attempt to create creative convergences, not welding, and from this point of view we must point this out in plenary because I do not see this reality reproduced. Let everyone who is interested, and the citizens and those who sit, look at the minutes of the committee's meetings and I think that such a conclusion will come to light. We were told by my colleague from New Democracy, Mr. Panagiotopoulos, mocking, that it was a fireplace for Alexis Tsipras' initiative in 2016 to hold a social consultation ahead of the constitutional review. Some people, in fact, talked about 'constitutional populism' at the time. However, this debate has taken place. In fact, it did not take the generalised dimension because it did not take part first of all in any opposition party. They mocked it and everybody snooped it. But not everyone. Selfgovernment, representatives of productive classes, universities with a spirit of independence and not integrated into political orientation and many others participated. With the chairmanship of Professor Michalis Spourdalakis, a great project has been carried out and even had an element of originality, because there is indeed a need for social consultation and social dialogue on constitutional reform. However, the view of the "specialists" was that this is only Parliament's work. Of course, it is Parliament's work to revise the Constitutional Revision. What does that mean? Does it mean that people cannot participate and have their own contribution to the reflection and shaping of the solutions to which we should be guided? Therefore, SYRIZA's proposal is just consistent, thought out, without purpose, without consumerism, bizarre constitutional consumerism as the New Democracy's proposal, which, in addition to three, four, five points, is an endless quote of proposed articles and, of course, with clear ideological and class orientation. New Democracy does not reflect the experiences of Greek society. When he tells us about the revision of Article 16, which is indeed a debate that is taking place, he must tell us and that GDP will be increased by 1.5%, as Mr Varvitsiotis said or whoever said so. Is paradox involved in GDP growth? The schools, which abolish at least two classes of high school and eliminate them from the middle school, are participating in the growth of GDP? The young people who leave abroad go to Harvard? If all of them go to Harvard or MIT, we can see that Harvard and MIT are missing from Greece and see how public universities can cooperate such a way that they can provide opportunities. However, can we hope that Harvard and Mit Universitys will be founded in Greece? Colleges will also be established, as Mr Yiannis Tsironis rightly said in a previous debate, whatever it may be, to have the child a degree in this insurmountable competition. Well, that's not planning for education! It has nothing to do with traditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u385	If you're kind enough, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u386	I shall conclude, Mr President. In the same sense, the balanced budgets are the same. If that's possible! It is an attempt to abolish the environmental safeguards that have been conquered by Article 24 and much more. For the leadership of justice, in fact, a lot of discussions can be held. But they haven't. The debates held in the House, in the committee responsible, with the representatives, the top representatives of the Council of State, others wrote down. I don't have time to get into details. To this end, a proposal, such as that of SYRIZA, which raises questions of democracy, which raises issues of undivided religion and the enthusiasm of the state, which raises questions of non-dissolution of the House in view of the election of the President of the Republic, which raises questions of referendum in the event of major real decisions that are really linked to the assignment of national sovereignty and not this debate that took place on the Ambassadors' agreement, which had nothing to do with the assignment of national sovereignty and all the social proposals for safeguarding the social and democratic rights of the Greek people, is the quintality of the proposal of SYRIZA, which is indeed linked, not to the painful dates of the last decade but also to the hopeful prospects of the next decade and future of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr. Thodoris Dritsa, MP of SYRIZA of Piraeus I. Ioannis Theocrat, MP Kozanis of SYRIZA, will now speak and then the Minister, Mr. Fotios, will speak. Mr. Goddess, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the Constitution, about the highest, supreme law of the state, which is also the greatest disguise, the largest and safest refuge of every Greek citizen. The wording of Article 1 of the Constitution is entirely festive and characteristic. Article 1(2): The foundation of the culture is popular sovereignty. Article 1(3): All powers come from the people, there are for him and the nation and they are exercised as defined in the Constitution. The major question, therefore, raised by other colleagues and by all the parties: if everything happens to the people, what was the result of the bankruptcy in 2010, which has shocked the country for eight - nine years, which has reduced GDP by 25%, which has increased unemployment to 28%? Come see what unemployment we have and we have in western Macedonia. What about youth unemployment, which sent thousands of immigrants abroad, which reduced pensions and wages? After the Constitution protects the people, how did it enable them to suffer all this, to go bankrupt and to suffer all this? Difficult to ask: First, could the Constitution prevent the causes that led to the crisis? Secondly, could the Constitution prevent the consequences of the crisis, namely the memorials and adverse consequences? The answer to both questions is yes, there was institutional shield. The Greek constitutions were and remain progressive and philosophical, and we want to make them even more progressive and philosophical. From the payment of the Greek state, the Greek Constitutions had such characteristics. So who's to blame? He's hitting 'em? We had bankruptcy again, the same question posed by Charilaos Trikoupis. He's hitting 'em? Political responsibilities are too heavy. The New Democracy and the PASOK are to blame, which ruled the country in the wilderness of the Greek people and exercised the powers not for it, as the Constitution defines, but for themselves. Those who finally exercised them, most of them, got themselves rich and the people went bankrupt. Of course it also has the fourth power, the press and the media, because instead of checking and demonstrating the mistakes made, it has been seized with the other powers and so we have reached the cliff and bankruptcy. So democracy did not work properly either before the crisis, as all the political forces saw the categorisation of the country against the Greek people and did nothing about it, nor did they do anything about it in the early years of the crisis, as the rulings at that time - the New Democracy and the PASOK - retreat unnecessarily, without any application of the Constitution, in the face of the fiscal threats of our lenders. These are, then, the most serious criminal political responsibility - criminals - is another issue - of the New Democracy and of the PASOK that destroyed the country and then loaded off the catastrophe to the Greek people, saying 'it is your fault and you will pay it'. Now they're talking about responsibility. The New Democracy rapporteur, Mr Tasoulus, speaks of constitutional responsibility. Mrs Bakoyannis and many speakers from New Democracy say that if we had set budgetary discipline, we would not have failed. So it wasn't their fault. They want to rinse their criminal political mistakes with the footnote that we should have budgetary discipline in the Constitution, as if we did not have institutionally regulated provisions in both the Constitution and the laws, so that all the criminal errors that brought the country into bankruptcy are not made. So we now have the opportunity on the one hand to have a democratic lesson about how we have come here and, on the other, to shield our Constitution further by strengthening popular sovereignty and social rights in order to avoid such adventures in the future. That's where SYRIZA's proposal for constitutional revision is moving. I'll also talk about four, five key, symbolic articles, which are the most important: Do not tell me that you do not agree that Article 86 had to be changed about the responsibility of the ministers, in fact about the non-responsibility of the ministers, and also about the limitation of the immunity of the Members of Parliament. Everyone knows that these articles have created the feeling that the political staff of the country and, in particular, the ministers are never to blame for anything, because of the slightest limitation. Do not tell me that this feeling has not contributed to the growth of economic scandals throughout the 2000s, which has made a decisive contribution to the country's bankruptcy. Do not tell me that it should not be protected constitutionally, as we are proposing, the public control of basic social goods, such as water and electricity, which were so at stake during the memorandums. This is not something simple and people need to know, because in the national elections to be voted on, the question will be: 'Do you want the protection of electricity and water', as we propose? “Yes? You must vote for SYRIZA. If you vote for the New Democracy, it means that you do not propose the protection of electricity and water." Likewise, there must be a constitutional recognition of the guarantee of a decent standard of living, as we propose and, as we are proposing, as a government, we have implemented, with the humanitarian crisis card, with the minimum guaranteed income, etc. On the contrary, the Samara - Venizelos government decided that for the crisis and bankruptcy, which was caused by the few who are on the various Borgians, Lagard, etc., many had to pay. Likewise in the positive direction is the constitutional recognition of the right to health, as we propose, and the obligation of the State to provide universal access to health benefits. Well, people should know that. He will have a constitutional recognition of health if he votes SYRIZA in the national elections. He won't have, if he votes for the New Democracy and they've proved it. We have proved it in legislation with the two and a half million uninsured people who have health care. On the contrary, the Samara government - Venizelou what did it do? Their first period was out, like dogs in the vineyard - to say it clearly - without any health insurance at all. Then, as soon as they understood their mistake, they were put in hospitals, but they were sent after the tax account. "What did you do? Bypass? EUR 10 000.’ It is also very important to encourage direct-democratic institutions and local referendums. Anyone who has lived in popular assemblies in villages, towns, neighborhoods, knows how strong democracy is and how bright it is in such processes. It's in a very positive direction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I close, Mr President, by making two comments on relations between the State and Church. We do not need to be fearful, ladies and gentlemen. See also today's positive announcements on the State-Church agreement, with the full assurance of the clergy and with the full agreement of Archbishop Mr. Jeronymou, who is obviously certain that the rights of the Church of Greece are protected. Greece finds itself on a number of issues, such as the relationship with the Church, at the threshold of the West and measures its steps carefully and well, as we have our own selfishness and tradition. That's how our proposal moves. In other words, we are proposing the introduction of the neutral state and the political oath, but maintaining both the front of the Constitution and the term of the prevailing religion. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece, when the Left collaborates, collaborates and finds it - so to speak - with the church and the 'e', that is to say, with the people of the Church - and that is what we are trying to do - an explosive mixture of democracy, popularity, racialism and altruism is being created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u389	Thank you Mr. Ioannis Theocratic, MP Kosanis of SYRIZA. Mrs Theanos Fotio, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u390	Ladies and gentlemen, it is the historic moment that we come out of the catalytic crisis for the country and the Greek Parliament is moving on to those constitutional reforms that are needed to restore the credibility of the political system and of the state, which has been raised in the consciousness of the citizens, in order to strengthen democracy and popular participation, which have been affected in the crisis and in order to strengthen social rights, which have been tested and effectively challenged with the monuments. Our proposal concerns only seventeen articles, avoiding New Democracy's constitutional pillowing that has led to two failed constitutional revisions in 2001 and 2008. But there is an article that we do not want to review. It is Article 16 for public higher education institutions, which strictly defines the protection of the public university, which was passed in 1975 by a large majority of the government of Constantine Karamanlis. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 16 has a surplus because, while it stipulates that universities are public, it at the same time prohibits the establishment of private universities. Because the legislator then wanted to shield the public university and exclude scientific teaching and scientific research from market competition and the influence of self-interest and self-interest. Article 16 founded the new Greek public university and contributed to its development and blooming even in the difficult years of the crisis, a bloom that is internationally recognized. It is worth pointing out that the constitutional legislature has placed this article in the chapter on individual and social rights, in order to highlight the nature of education as a constitutional right. However, since the early 1990s, with the New Democracy Government, the struggle to abolish the exclusive public character of the HEIs, when the scientists opened colleges and promised university degrees against money, while at the same time the government promised friends and sponsors of the New Democracy that either they would abolish or detract from the constitutional ban on private HEIs. The second systematic effort of the leash referred to in Article 16 is again made by the Government of New Democracy in 2006-2007, in which case the fight resistance and the multi-month protests of students and teachers led to a shipwreck of the attempted changes and to a naughty retreat of the New Democracy and the PASOK. The public nature of HEIs, ladies and gentlemen, is not a left-wing obsession, but the only way for the free development of science and research, for the dissemination of knowledge and for the free access of the people to it. What for? Ladies and gentlemen, the university by definition produces and reproduces knowledge, as well as the teaching body that manages knowledge and research. Otherwise, it's not a university. I insist on this: otherwise, it's not a university. This is enshrined in the Constitution in two ways: first, the freedom of teaching and research is guaranteed in Article 16, without which the production of knowledge is impossible. Secondly, in Article 16, too, the self-employed, i.e. the university community itself, elects its administrative bodies, chooses its scientific staff on its own criteria, within the framework of the law. The public university, that is, reproduces the same. It can't be appointed from outside. Both of these elements cannot exist outside the public sector in private universities, whether they are profitable or non-profit-making. And I'm gonna talk a little bit about this candy, about being non-profit-making. The private university is run by an owner - whether it is a private company or a non-profit establishment - that is, it is not the university community that runs it. Scientific staff shall be recruited by the owner or institution respectively. The owner or institution shall determine the content of the teaching and direction of the investigation. While, in Article 16, even the establishment of new university departments, it is evident that the establishment of their cognitive objects is by decision of the State, i.e. in the light of the public interest and the social benefit, unlike private HEIs, or the speculative interest of the businessman or the aims of the non-profit institution, as determined by the same. In other words, private HEIs are non-democratic educational institutions and, I insist, they are of poor quality. And finally, tell us, you of the New Democracy or of the PASOK, an institution, private HEI in Europe, which is a source of concern. Tell us what it's all about. Comparison with the private sector of education for the first two steps is unmanageable. You say: 'After there are in the first two degrees private schools, why should we not have an EHS?' Because at the first two levels of education, the school programme and the curriculum are defined by the State. This cannot be done at the EITs, because that is where knowledge is primarily produced. And this production of knowledge is not capable of such interventions, otherwise the production of knowledge itself is cancelled. University education, ladies and gentlemen - and you know it - is very precise. Even if tuition were to be entered in the EITs - which is the other secret pursuit of the New Democracy, which does not say so, but that is the problem - revenues could not cover expenditure. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. Whether private HEIs are profitable or non-profit-making, they will be addressed to rich people. Profits, of course, will be directed at multipliers or a large part of them will have to be financed by the state. And listen! This is the objective, the low budget for higher education, the low corps to share, and to disperse to private institutions as well. I have experience - and you all know it - from other sectors, from non-profit-making institutions, namely welfare. There, therefore, private institutions, public utilities, non-profit-making purposes, do not go beyond without the state subsidy. And you know that very well. All these private non-profit-making legal persons are financed by three state-owned pockets: by EEAY, the Ministry and so on. When they're not financed, they're suffering from what happened to the Elderly of Athens. So what private HEIs are proposing is state institutions without the freedom of the public HEIs to satisfy speculative or supreme interests without visible educational control. Often you ask: If a large wealthy foundation or a rich benefactor wants to build an EHI, can he? Of course, he can. This is the example of the Panteion University. This is the example of the Polytechnic. These universities were founded by very large benefactors. However, in recent years a coordinated effort has been made to reap the public university. These go together. And this effort has your seal, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Decide, finally. Is it good or isn't the Greek university? Because, on the one hand, you cannot cry about Brain Drain, that is, that all of our graduates have left the institutions abroad and on the other hand, that you are cheating on the universities. Our graduates left abroad because they have very good degrees and therefore very good exchanges. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Excuse me. This is the second time Parliament has discussed the abolition of the constitutional protection of the public university. The first time, the strong PASOK was almost broken. The attack on higher education was disgusted. Now fortunately, the majority of this House is opposed and the publicity of higher education will be saved. That's the left hand hold for the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mrs. Theanos Fotio. Mr Charalambos Athanasios, Member of the Lesvos of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like briefly to refer to the procedural limits of the Review, as regards the competence of the two Bulgarians, the present, namely the Parliament proposed and the next, of the review. This first House, in its decision, after finding the need to revise the Constitution, shall specify in particular which of the revised provisions may become revised, not only in an article, but also in paragraph or even in a subparagraph. This decision must include the need, but also a fundamental one, for a general approach to the revision which is, in fact, nothing more than the reason for the need to revise certain provisions of the Constitution. The precise content of the revised provisions, however, belongs to the next House, the second, which is equipped with a revision, namely the exclusive competence to define precisely the regulatory content of the revised provisions that the first Parliament has decided on as such and only in respect of them. In other words, on the one hand, the second Parliament cannot decide to revise any provisions other than those which the first Parliament, on the other, has decided, on the other hand, with a recent people's mandate to regulate and on the pending issue of the Review, to decide at its first meeting on the content of these provisions, without being bound by any decision of the first Parliament, of this House. I shall set an example. Let us assume that Article 32 of the Constitution states that the announcement of the parliamentary elections should be disconnected from the election of the President of the Republic. That is the elementary direction. If he does not say so, then the second House may not go that way and the provision will be more stringent. Likewise, the election of Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Courts. Why do we say that? We are talking about this in order to guarantee the personal independence of the judges. If we do not say so - if only we remain in the necessity of changing Article 90(5) of the Constitution - then it is possible for the second parliament to say: 'A, the plenary of the legal associations will decide' or only the Prime Minister. These are theoretical examples, extreme, but that's the way it is. So you realise where independence goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u393	Just to understand, if the first House says so, the latter commits itself to the extent that you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u394	It is committed in the direction, but not in terms of content, that is, that it will move in a context. It is an elementary direction that is not binding on content.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u395	We say so, that it commits itself in the direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u396	In other words, Mr Minister, it is what we say because of necessity. That's the point. It does not mean that the direction is exclusively binding when determined from now on. That's completely different. First of all, it seems that the two Bulgarians are taking part equally in the review process, since the majority on the proposal for a revision of the first Parliament and the majority on the decision and the revised provisions of the second Parliament are, in accordance with paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Article 110: an absolute majority of the total number of Parliament in the first, a hundred eighty Members in the second, or vice versa, a hundred eighty Members in the first, an absolute majority in the second. Secondly, the first House decides on the necessity of the revised provisions, while the second is freely made up of their regulatory content. I believe that the burden falls in the second House, because this is the Reform Parliament, with the recent popular mandate, which will specifically define - I stress it - the precise content of the revised provisions. Finally, with regard to paragraph 6 of Article 110 of the Constitution, which prohibits a review before the five-year period passes, this will have a basis and must therefore be interpreted and amended. It must be stated that this provision applies only to the provisions that have been revised. In other words, when there is a decision or when public opinion or society has accepted a change - let us say to private universities - we cannot commit ourselves for a whole five years. This space may not be five years. Depending on when the Review will take place, it can be seven and eight years. So the next House cannot, before that time, bring for discussion a provision which had not been revised. This restriction should therefore only apply to the provisions that have been revised and not to those which have not been put into effect. Ladies and gentlemen, following my general position, I must then, because of the limited time available, make the essential remarks on the basic articles, which, in my opinion, need to be revised, based on the positions of my party, in my firm views, but also taking into account and commenting on the findings of the committee. I begin with an issue which I consider to be an undeniable necessity. It is the critical review of Rule 62, of the irresponsibleness of Members and of Article 86 for the persecution of members of the government. It is clear that there has been abuse of these articles and we have often reached the point of political persons to evade the control required and to act unaccompaniedly, hiding behind the immunity and amortization deadline under Article 86. We must make our self-criticism and admit that Parliament has sometimes created impunity. In Article 3 it is clear that the New Democracy is opposed to its review, even with the introduction of an interpretative declaration. The current form of Article 3 has historically achieved an important balance. It is in line with the historical course and traditions of our country, as they have shaped in the centuries, and has in no way harmed anxieties. There are no fundamental issues of discrimination based on religious orientation in our country, particularly regarding the state's attitude to organised doctrines, their representatives and their loyal ones. I therefore consider that the provision should remain the same, because it is absolutely a success. Moreover, Article 13 of the Constitution establishes freedom of religious conscience. Every known religion is free and its worship is done unreservedly under the protection of laws. With regard to Article 16, I think it would be a historic failure if we were not able to revise it either now, allowing private universities to be created, maintaining nuisances that kept the level of public education established due to a lack of competition and sent to the outside hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens, many of whom did not come back, as they found better conditions abroad, academics and professionals. With the revision of Article 25, we are introducing the constitutional guarantee of minimum guaranteed income for Greek citizens. It is also very critical to disconnect the challenge of national elections, as I mentioned before, from the issue of the election of the President of the Republic. The New Democracy has felt twice the distortions caused by the existing wording of Article 32 and, unfortunately, by the country. The fact that the government today supports the amendment of this article, regardless of whether we disagree with the wording we have to adopt, is a recognition of its opportunistic attitude at the time that it caused the anti-institutional fall of a successful government. Of course, Article 41 also needs revision. The practice of the dismantling of the House on national issues, which only pretextfully refer to the reasoning of the dissolution, must be stopped. Our view is reflected in our proposal for the revision of Article 52, elections on a stable date. In Article 51 we must all ask ourselves why in the year 2019 we have not yet given the opportunity to vote on the remote Greeks, the Greeks abroad. We must finally give a solution to an issue that has been successfully dealt with almost every country, apart from our own. Our president, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, talked about institutional omission of the state. We have also tabled a proposal on this which has not yet been introduced into Parliament. The choice of the leadership of the Supreme Courts is shifted from executive power to legislative power. That is an issue that the next House will determine. Our proposal for the appointment of members of the independent authorities is important, in accordance with Rule 101a of the Constitution, which now leaves the Conference of Presidents, and we say that it must go to a parliamentary committee. The other provisions will be made after a month, in the second debate, as provided for in the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be easy for us to vote against all the committee's proposals to ensure that a 3/5 majority is required to review all articles in the next House. But we do not, because we believe that the country's constitution needs a bold review. We are also firmly in favour of SYRIZA's proposals on the revised articles, without committing ourselves to the final wording of the revised provisions that will be put by the majority in Parliament's crisis and you can be sure that our prolongation to the next Parliament will do what is in the interests of the people and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u397	Thank you to Mr Charalambos Athanasios, Member of the Lesvos of the New Democracy. Mr Ioannis Maniatis, Member of the Argolis of the Democratic Partnership, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u398	Ladies and gentlemen, the Revision of the Constitution is undoubtedly the top moment of democracy, a moment when it has to be outside the present party confrontations, populism and demagogues and treated as a process that has to be taken with national self-awareness to look at the depth of historical time. Today more than ever, we need to protect the dignity of citizens, the credibility of institutions, the honour of the political world, the reversal of the country's decades of decline. The Constitutional Review may not obey short-term priorities. It has to do with historical experience and national, patriotic duty. Today's Charter endured the long economic crisis. However, it seemed weak on the issues of the election of the President of the Republic. It is precisely this historical experience that creates the democratic obligation for all of us to support the change in Articles 30 and 32 for the election of the President of the Republic, with the complete disconnection of his election from the dissolution of the House and the holding of parliamentary elections. Today, the political context has to discuss with the timeless historical experience of institutions and society. No article under review should be voted on with more than one hundred and eighty votes so that the next House will not be taken captive, which will, in fact, have the fresh people's mandate. We, as Democratic Reconciliation, have proposed the revision of thirty-three articles in the Constitution. I will only refer to three of them: Article 16 for universities, Article 24 for environment and climate change and Article 25 for human rights and artificial intelligence. I am addressing all my fellow Members in particular to the last two articles, to the issue of climate change and artificial intelligence, because they are two issues that have never had the place to be considered and deserved in the public debate. So I start with Article 16. We are proposing that the possibility of setting up non-governmental, non-profit universities by means of strict certification, control, permanent state supervision and evaluation procedures should be provided. But this is one side of the coin. There is the second and, in my opinion, the most important one. And this second side is the liberation of the public Greek university from the blockages of stateism and idealism. And I repeat the term 'liberation'. Released from the prisons of the respective Minister of Education, Statement and Idealty, which with the SYRIZA Government has led to total disdain, the effective impoverishment of academic institutions through the immunity of mechanisms of illegality and arbitraryity. The public university is the largest unexploited new national source of public wealth. Statement clacks and excludes the public university from contributing - such as, for example, in Cyprus - by 2% to the increase in Gross Domestic Product, a prospect that will result from the economic use of research, know-how, applications developed in the Greek academic world, an intervention that can reverse the Brain Drain and make it Brain gain. And we at the public university are saying in every direction that we are not only afraid of competition at any level, at any level, private university, but on the contrary, competition will help to improve the Greek public university even more. I now come to Article 24 of the Constitution, which refers to the protection of the environment, forests and monuments, as well as to the sustainable town and country planning organisation. The wording mentioned above was correct when it was formulated. Today, however, they are not sufficient for a modern climate change framework, the greatest challenge facing the human species ever. A much more holistic approach to this incredible multi-factorial risk is needed that must cross horizontally all human actions, perceptions and social priorities. In 2014 by the Ministry of the Environment, in cooperation with the Bank of Greece, we entrusted the Academy of Athens with an assessment of the possible damage to climate change in Greece over the coming years. Do you know what the conclusion of the Athens Academy was? Our country will be damaged by EUR 700 billion. It is a shocking amount which, in my opinion, obliges the constitutional legislature to provide for specific legislation. At European level, the only intervention made was by the French Government in April 2018 for a revision of Article 34 of the French Constitution. I note in particular that, despite the fact that Greece is taking part in the emissions of global pollutants by only 0.21%, our moral obligation towards future generations requires us to take the lead in constitutional terms. I come to Article 25 of the Constitution, which refers to the social rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. We propose adding a specific amendment to the effects of artificial intelligence and the fourth industrial revolution, both to safeguard and protect human rights and to a fair social distribution of the wealth produced. It is no longer possible for the elite that owns the wealth, which is the information and algorithms of the applications, to belong only to twenty-six people. Twenty-six people, billionaires, own 50% of world wealth. The intervention, the real intervention for the benefit of societies, would be for them, with the leading owners and shareholders of Facebook, Google, Apple and Amazon, who are based in tax havens. To provide for the Greek Constitution - and to ask other European countries to include in it - the question of social justice, namely the fairer distribution of the wealth produced, but also of transnational, international solidarity, so that, in fact, these technological colossians, who are able to overcome the tax systems of the favoured countries, can no longer find the solution they have found so far. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I conclude by saying that I consider that in our Constitution, the issue of take news and the issue of post-truth, post-truth policy and behaviour should also, together with issues of cyberterrorism, be included in order to oblige the joint legislator constantly to provide for these actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u399	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u400	Ladies and gentlemen, I think, by closing that the integration of these three non-publicists - particularly the two amendments - from interventions, we are able to give the institutions the opportunity to shield all our academic, economic and social actions so that as a society, with vision and national self-confidence, we can move forward for tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u401	Thank you. Ilias Kasidiaris, MP at Attiki of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u402	I will begin with a few historical elements, particularly important, which, unfortunately, the majority of those present may not know. We're on September 3, 1843. The movement is erupting with a request for the concession of a constitution from Otto. The cinemas, rightly thinking, break the guardians of Medresse, who were in Plaka - somewhere in the street of Aiolos - take out the convicts and tell them to create a turmoil: "Get up on the palaces..." - that is, this building, in today's Syntagma square - "... and you're shouting." ‘For whom to yell?’. ‘For the Constitution’. "Who is the Constitution?" the convicts asked. They didn't know then. They had no knowledge. "It doesn't matter. You are shouting.’ And they shouted "Have the Constitution". This happened on September 3, 1843. All the knowledge of the Constitution was of the then convicts of Medresse prisons, who had gone up to the square here and shouted out, and they too have the same knowledge from the government of this proposal for constitutional revision, which I dare say is that it is for garbage, because, of course, this proposal for constitutional revision violates the basic principles of the current constitution. The constitutionalist, Mr. Katrugalos, professor and President of Parliament are here. So I ask them: do they know what it says, what does Article 4(1) "provision of equality between the Greeks" explicitly provide for? It predicts that all Greeks are equal before the law. I mean, if a citizen makes a crime, the police arrest him, prosecuting him, going to court and being tried. Does this provide, as far as the Ministers and Members are concerned, for the proposal on constitutional revision, which has been tabled today by SYRIZA, and which, of course, has the partnership of the New Democracy? On the issue of the perpetuation of political corruption, you are hand-to-hand. On the question of continuing to comply with the obscure Article 86 - which is the Venizelos law, of course, to say things by their name, it is the 'demand of Ministers' law that has led to the chaos of Greece - you are hand-to-hand. As far as Article 62 is concerned, which is the most infamous parliamentary immunity, what happens in this case? It is SYRIZA's proposal that the New Democracy is voting for. When a Minister makes a crime, it is not justice that is prosecuted, but the House. We need a proposal for prosecution, which is submitted by thirty Members. If no thirty Members are found to sign a proposal for prosecution, there is not even a debate. As for the criminal politician going to justice, it takes a hundred and fifty Members there. In other words, there is one possibility that there will be justice in Greece, if that is what the majority wants. If the majority don't want it, the criminal politician goes home. And I don't generally talk. I have specific examples for the people to understand why you are in this great crime of perpetuating political corruption. A few months ago, a request from the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office came to the House, and the prosecutor was asking to prosecute former Prime Minister Samaras for the infamous phones he made to prosecutor Doyako, for the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group to be imprisoned. So the prosecutor asked for an investigation of criminal responsibilities, Samara, to induce a crime to be committed when he called the prosecutor. The government gets this file, Tsipras, locks him in a drawer. I am sending all Members of this House - the request from the prosecutor - and I ask for thirty signatures. And we can't find thirty signatures, because the Golden Dawn numberes sixteen Members. And so, this crime is locked in a drawer. And when SYRIZA was elected, and when SYRIZA defied the Greeks' vote and spoke about the moral advantage of the Left, he said he would abolish the law "no duty of Ministers". And today what does it say? Something about the abolition of the amortization deadline. What kind of nonsense is this? At the same time, you say that in order for a Minister to be prosecuted, this can only be done with the permission of the House and only if the majority have voted. If the majority don't vote, he'll do the crime, and he'll be at home. The same is true of parliamentary immunity. Is the D.A. asking for the prosecution of a congressman? Only if there is a vote in this House and a majority will the Member be expelled. Otherwise, to the unavoidable Member! I too have the honour to speak as one of the Members for whom parliamentary immunity has, in practice, been abolished. Because the Members of the Golden Dawn are the only ones, all these years of post-multiple activity, for which - and this is an honour - there is no parliamentary immunity. And we have so many waivers of immunity - I personally have a two-digit number, I have lost count - not even half of all the Members of all the parties from the relocation to date, so many decades ago. And, of course, we ourselves are asking for the waiver of our immunity, for the court to go and get innocent in everything, because all our persecutions against us are set and come from political intervention from above. So I talked about a very critical issue, the issue of the perpetuation of political corruption, where SYRIZA is identified with New Democracy. And, of course, they do not only identify these issues. Politics is the same. It seemed clear - I am speaking again of the Constitution - when we documented the unconstitutionality of the betrayal agreement of the Ambassadors. And then the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy was abused because he said 'no' to the proposal of the Golden Dawn, because he expressly stated, in substance, that the confiscated Ambassadors' agreement is lawful and in accordance with the Constitution. And it's not just your partnership there. Tsipras and Mitsotakis are hand in hand on the issue of the name. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Dora Bakoyannis say "yes" in the composite name, they say they will talk about "North Macedonia". Together you voted to create a mosque, to create Islamic mosques in Athens. Together you voted for the Mouzala amendment, which gives unconditional asylum to those illegal immigrants who are entering Greece from Turkey. Together you voted for the anti-racist law, which illegally considers the aggregations of Greek citizens. It's okay, even so, it's acceptable. Together you voted to abolish the state financing of the Golden Dawn, a law beyond unconstitutional, with which you thought the boom and rise of the nationalist movement would end. And together today you are voting on the immunity of criminal politicians. I would like to say a few words about the case of the President of the Republic, for which there is a great deal of discussion. Our position is stable, of course. No vote should be taken in this House. We are talking about more direct democracy, we fascists - who say we are plunging, nazi, extreme right-wing - are talking about more direct democracy. We are talking about referendums and we are talking about the election of the President of the Republic directly from the Greek people. And since many neo-democrats often ask the question "Who brought SYRIZA into the matter in 2015?", I will give a definitive answer from this Step and revert a little back in the days that Dimas was voted for. SYRIZA was brought to him by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who at a television interview had then said that even if Golden Dawn voted for the President of the Republic, then he and others from New Democracy would vote against and so Samaras would fall. That's to the knowledge. With one major issue I will close, on which the President of the Parliament has also taken a position and made a major historical mistake. We referred to the vote of the Greeks who live in slain homes. And we specifically talked about the Greek national minority in Northern Epirus, which is recognized by international conditions. When we say that the Hellenism of Northern Epirus, which, from the international conditions, has been recognised as a national Greek minority, must have the right to vote and elect its representatives in the Greek Parliament, then how can one consider that we are talking about albuminism? These things are unacceptable, they are incomprehensible and should be revoked - I think the President of Parliament. And let me remind him historically that in May 1915 the heroic Spyros Spyromilios was elected to the Greek Parliament. He was a MP of the Silvrokastro, honoured the Greek Parliament, was a fighter who fought in the Macedonian struggle, fought in the Balkan Wars, fought for Himaras as leader of the Himaras in the northern continent and elected MP of the Silvrokastro. And we would like, yes, with the Constitutional Review, that there should be a Greek elected representative of the Greek National Minority of Northern Epirus in the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u403	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students, as well as four educational sessions from the 12th Municipal School of Xanthi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform the disciples that they are attending a sitting in Parliament at which the Revision of the Constitution is being discussed. Today Members are speaking, and tomorrow, and tomorrow evening or tomorrow we shall finish the procedure with one vote in Parliament. We move to the next speaker, who is Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, MP for Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u404	Thank you very much, Mr President. What is the basis of the Constitution - each constitution? The basis of each Constitution is nothing more than the safeguarding of the power of the sovereign order. In this case, in the system in which we live, the basis of the civil constitution is the safeguarding of the power of the bourgeoisie, i.e. the science of the "capital dictatorship". Is there a common denominator in SYRIZA, New Democracy and other parties' proposals for review? We say that, of course, there is a common denominator in the provisions that you are proposing to be revised. Who is this common denominator? First, the necessary adaptations to the Memorandum Laws are necessary. A number of Memorandum laws have been passed, so there must be a reflection of the revised Constitution. Secondly, the necessary adaptations to the new requirements for the reproduction of capital following this very great capitalist crisis are needed. Thirdly, there are adjustments to the further shielding of the political system, namely, the continuity, stability of the governments of the urban political system, namely the power of capital. Your confrontation is callous. You have a number of articles, for example Article 16 on the prohibition of the establishment of private universities, while at the other levels of education that is not prohibited - there are private schools, schools and high school, even technical education - and much more so when the current government is turning public universities into universities - anonymous companies. She said Mrs Fotou: 'Stately the university community defines the programme'. Really? Which university community today defines the curriculum when you are even more close to universities with business groups? The association of universities and business groups is unprecedented and is constantly expanding. Are research, the production of new knowledge, innovation not directly interconnected and linked to the needs of business groups? For what public, free education are we talking about at universities, when parents bleed, and for children to go to university, but much more so that they can study? For what public, free education do you talk about when you themselves multiply tuition in postgraduate programs? What kind of public education are we talking about when you yourself, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - the SYRIZA Government today - have lowered the value of diplomas, turning them into, essentially, high school diplomas? As a government, SYRIZA has raised the lie in science. Raise the flag that through the Constitution you will secure the simple analogue. What simple analogue? With 10% excluded, with thirty bonus seats? Is that just proportional? It's called reinforcement. No relationship to the simple, unadulterated proportion proposed by the JRC. In this respect, therefore, you are entangled in the essence of one another - because the New Democracy wants the stability of the system - in the name of the caging of the popular conscience and its manipulation, creating false separatist lines. It is clear, then, that you are harming nothing from the sanctums and figurines of the Constitution. We would not, of course, expect you to harm the constitutional safeguarding of capitalist property in the means of production, from which the exploitation of human beings comes from, where precisely because of capitalist property accumulates the wealth produced in less and less hands. And, really, do you claim that here you want to broaden equality between citizens, as you say? When there is economic inequality, can there be a level playing field? This is nothing but a typical equilibrium, which is an empty shirt. Does the rich have the same opportunities and opportunities for access to health as the unemployed, the poor, the impoverished? Of course not. He's got a lot more. Another thing that you do not harm is Greece's participation in the transnational alliances, in the international imperialist alliances, as we call them. Through this participation, the bourgeoisie of our country and the governments have voluntarily transferred a number of rights to these transnational alliances. And you have divided them voluntarily, precisely so that you can, on the one hand, shield the power of the bourgeoisie through these transnational alliances and, on the other, support the pursuits and interests of business groups. Article 27a, Article 28 itself. With Article 28 you have enabled European law even the national constitution and laws to prevail. And the end of the rift is the controversy made by the SYRIZA MPs in the proposal of the New Democracy and the PASOK on accession to the revised provisions of the balanced budgets. Are you serious? Do you disagree with this when you allow European law to prevail over Greek? Is there not a set of rules in the European Union that impose budgetary discipline? ‘Single European Governance’ is called. Aren't there the cutters you've ever legislated on? In fact, you are not talking about balanced budgets, but about surplus budgets by 2060. And until then, the formal constitutional safeguarding of the balanced budgets will also come. You don't mind Article 18. Under Article 18, mineral wealth, archaeological sites, mountainous volumes, shores, saints and forest systems may be used to exploit mineral resources to business groups. Keep undisturbed, in all constitutional revisions, the constitutional prerogatives that ensuring foreign capital activity and the tax-free essentially of shipowners. No party dare to hurt those that ensure and shield foreign capital and the scandalous privileges of shipowners. You maintain the public work hostage and you claim that the Constitution does not allow you to convert fixed-term contracts into fixed-term contracts into fixed-term contracts or unlimited-term contracts. You do not, however, review this article. Keep articles that shield and defend the system - such as Article 48 - on the siege situation that turns against the enemy people, against the internal 'risk'. What are you changing? Firstly, you are compiling the memorials and making the necessary adjustments to the insurance, putting the term 'efficiency', which is the womb of the overturns in the insurance system and the abolition of the social character. You're prescribing it as a basic principle. Secondly, you are constitutionalising the logic of management and the redistribution of extreme poverty. Thirdly, you say - and well - that you are keeping the water and electricity distribution networks under public control. This means that the state, the public sector, is being guaranteed the liberalisation and privatisation of water and electricity. This is what business groups working in water, electricity and other sectors want: there is a guarantee of access to networks, which are too expensive to make. From this point of view, you are finally moving towards further stabilisation of the political system. A SYRIZA speaker said that people's confidence in the political system must be restored. Really? What political system? What imposes all these anti-grassroots measures, which abolishes the rights of the working class and the rest of the people's strata? Does this urban political system have people trusted? We say 'no', why does political stability help? It helps to enforce anti-population policy. We say that the people through the organized struggle must create cracks in the political system, weaken their strength from above, so that they can win and have a dynamic overthrow of the system itself, which is the uterus of the sufferings faced by the people's family. This is the JRC's view and attitude to constitutional A - to consider.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u405	Thank you Mr. Karathanasopoulos, MP for the Communist Party of Greece. Mr.Ioannis Saridis, Member of the Association of Centres in the First Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u406	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I changed my suggestion because this morning, following the procedure, I found that we had a very important issue before us, which should have been discussed before and not during the process, namely tomorrow at 10 p.m. in plenary, as set out. And that is the incidental issue. I have said many times here that if it is to blame for everything that happens, if we accept, namely, that for all the suffering in Greece one thing is to blame, then this one thing in no way can be - and it is not - democracy. I have said this many times, and I have supported it in too many ways. Today, however, there is an opportunity to prove it once again, at the same time showing the real responsibility. I'm starting to comment on the process itself. We have all decided together to review the Constitution. No objections to this. We all agreed, each for his own reasons. The Constitution does indeed need changes. I believe it, too. This consensus on the need for changes has opened the way for today's debate. I note that according to my experience, when the citizens were informed of this consensus we had on changing the Constitution, the first thing - believe me - was this: in addition to all others who have been levelled, they will now put their hands to the Constitution. That's what Greek citizens thought. Unfortunately, this suspicion of citizens is neither unfounded nor unjustified. We have given rights as Parliament and in words and in actions to rightly challenge both the seriousness and the validity of the parliamentary authority. Unfortunately, in this same conclusion, those who try to understand exactly what we are going to do today and in what way we are going to do it. Each political force defines the articles that it wants to change and the changes it wants to make to each of these articles on which it submits its proposals. Each proposal refers to a specific article. These proposals are put to the vote. What, though, really gets into that vote? What is actually judged, from the day after tomorrow, by the process of the day after tomorrow? Is it only what articles will have the right to change the next House, or are there other important articles, perhaps? I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: what are we voting on today, what are we going to vote on tomorrow, Thursday, for what? Only on what articles will we change or give in our vote - as it eventually appeared in the morning - and on what directions these changes will have to take and what content will be made to ensure the nature and extent of the changes and directives binding on the House that will arise in the next elections? Are we therefore voting on the articles? If this is the case that, in other words, we simply decide which articles we will change and that the next ones will make any changes they want, then we should explain to the citizens and a very specific point in this process. Today we are not only deciding what articles will change, but also what the power of the next government will be on these changes to the articles. In short, after choosing what articles we will change, we also choose some of what the next government can change as it does, without having to agree with anyone. We will have authorized it, in other words, to be able to do whatever it wants from today, on its own and without having to listen to anyone afterwards. How will we have done that? But with our vote. Any article that raises a hundred and eighty votes in this House does not need to raise a hundred and eighty votes in the next. A hundred fifty-one. It will, in other words, be at the absolute mercy of the next government with our signature, with our vote. On the contrary, any article that does not collect a hundred and eighty today should collect it next, and if it does not find it there, then these changes, however necessary, will have to wait for the next twenty years to take place. In short, what is being judged today is what articles in the Constitution will do what the next government wants, which is based on the fifty-seat bonuses of electoral law. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very afraid that soon Greek citizens will be looking again for the person responsible. Soon they will once again express the question 'but, well, what right does the government do?' Because don't play with words. The government will do it, the House will discuss it. The government will. They're still wondering about the memorials and the press. So the right of the next government to be revised and not the next Parliament will have it from us. That is what the citizens understand about this process, which we all accompany in our speech with resounding aggressive determinations: the top process, the dominant process, the gravity of the process, the institutional process, the openness of the process. So what I'm saying is that it's a, as I see it, an "expressed" process, because otherwise, if it was our most top constitutional process, the most powerful initiative of our democracy, with a sacred purpose for its self-improvement, then the first thing it would ask is: What do the Greeks think about the quality of our democracy? What do the Greeks answer, namely, the question: do we have democracy in this place, yes or no? For the same reason that we do not dare to ask ourselves, for the same reason, because of fear of the answer, we have left those who hate democracy free to invoke it and defend it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is those who are to blame who play with democracy, those who tease the rules of democracy, those who know how to hide the devil in the details, those who know how to write and read behind words, are the same ones who care for Greeks to be busy while they do these. They either make sure that the daily lives of Greek citizens, who simply do not have time or thought or mind or soul to understand what is happening and react accordingly, are either to be eaten by each other. Yes, the Constitution needs changes. No, it must not be possible for any future government, since it takes fifty bonus seats from the electoral system, to be able to make these changes with a hundred and fifty ones. No, this House cannot commit the next day for the kind, direction and content of the changes. Before I come down from the Step, I personally have a proposal to strengthen the consciousness of the vote: to abolish in practice the parties' lines by introducing roll-call votes for each bill, regardless of its origin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u407	We proceed with SYRIZA's MP Mr Stavros Kontonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr President. I am going directly to the articles, of which several have dealt with the plenary at the Revision meeting. First and foremost, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to Article 110 of the Constitution. A scientifically unacceptable approach has been heard by the Qualified Opposition to the way in which it is revised, and it does not find any ground in the letter and spirit of the Constitution. What is New Democracy telling us? That this House should only be confined to the inclusion of the articles of the Constitution which are being re-examined. Ladies and gentlemen, why is the people, the electorate, involved and involved? Why does the editorial legislator require in this case a judgement of the electorate on the provisions to be revised? We are not taking any response to this issue. In fact, this view, unfortunately, is also expressed by authors in everything - not otherwise - of constitutionalists. It is a completely wrong view, which wants to limit the work of this House to the listing of numbers of articles in the Constitution, which will be put to a final judgment by Parliament following the election. However, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this approach is not right, which says that the next Parliament, which will emerge after elections, is bound by the views expressed by the previous House. I do not think that this view is correct either. It is not a blatant mistake, such as the previous one, but there is a serious problem here, because this opinion does not take into account the fact that there is an intermediate link between the Parliament which it proposes and the Parliament which it decides, which is the electorate, the people that it judges. What does the Constitution and the editorial legislator require in this case? It requires that the articles of the Constitution be referred to which will be reviewed, but also the proposals of the parties and Members of Parliament on the revision of the articles in question, because that is how the people will judge them. Otherwise, how will he judge what view is correct? How will he indirectly judge the Revision of the Constitution? So, ladies and gentlemen, these two points of view I have described I think they are at both ends and they are both wrong. We therefore need to move on with seriousness and observance of the constitutional text in what it describes, namely that opinions should be made. The people will judge and finally decide on the composition of the new parliament, that is to say, in substance, the decision on the revision of the Constitution. The second thing I wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen, is this. I'm saying it a little quick. I am referring to Article 88(5) of the Constitution, which concerns the term of office of judges. You know very well that I had a, I would say, quasi-public controversy with the former President of the Ice Bay, Mr Thanos, who, at the time of her term of office, had sought to increase the age limits of the judges. It was an unacceptable legal view, because it conflicted with an explicit provision of the Constitution, and that is why I was publicly placed and I had given my opinion. I said at the time that if we want to increase the limits, it can be done through constitutional revision. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, horizontally and at the same time, I believe that we can move on to an increase in the age limits of judges, that is, from sixty-five and sixty-seven years to sixty-seven, because this period of judges, especially the highest judges, is the most productive period of a judge or judge, with increased experience, which is on the verge of his spiritual creation. We can't override that. Another thing, therefore, is how the limits will be increased, another thing that was then sought by law contrary to the explicit provision of the Constitution. I would also like to mention that no change should be made to Article 90 of the Constitution and that the way in which the supreme courts are elected remains the same. Ladies and gentlemen, because time is running, I would like to say that the way described in the Constitution for the election of the supreme courts is absolutely right and I would like you to take into account a nightmare scenario, only through the justice process and at some point - it is unlikely that we have seen it many times - the establishment of a corrupt leadership in a supreme court, which will be reproduced in this way, without anyone being able to interrupt this situation. What's gonna happen then? However, with this type of intervention and by energising the principle of popular sovereignty, which is the supreme constitutional principle, the people are also involved at this level. Ladies and gentlemen, I am of the opinion that no relation should be made to the election of the President of the Republic with the intervention of the people of the electorate. Those who say that the President of the Republic has no powers are making a big mistake. What, for example, is Article 42(2) of the Constitution? Direct involvement of the President of the Republic in the legislative work. It is another thing that happened in '85 with the deprivation of the President of the Republic of superpowers established by the Constitution of '75 and, in particular, that of the unacceptable provision which the President of the Republic could unilaterally dismantle Parliament if he found out - in what way and means had never been clear - the dimension of the composition of the Parliament with the moods of the electorate. The President of the Republic shall be elected by Parliament. Let's see how the election will be disconnected from the dissolving parliament, but if the electorate is involved to choose the President of the Republic, know that the form of the culture is now being altered. I don't think anyone wants us to live in situations that will trigger tensions. In fact, many times these tensions may be tragic. Ladies and gentlemen, the revision proposed by the Government has one emblematic feature: the amendment, not to say the abolition, of the provisions of Article 86 of the Constitution. Here, in fact, there must be an absolute consensus on all sides of the House and on the democratic parties to finally stop something which discredits not the political system, as Mr Karathanasopoulos said earlier, but democracy and parliamentaryism. This is an obligation, first and foremost, to the left government, because we have said in this Chamber that we do not need this type of protection, nor do we need the government nor any left-wing MEP. Ladies and gentlemen, the process, which is currently under way, seems to me to be the top process and top initiative taken by the government to modernise the country's Constitutional Charter. In this sense I have spoken to you today and expressed opinions which can be regarded as heretical in terms of the views expressed by the rapporteur and by the parliamentary representative of our party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u409	Thank you Mr Stavros Kontonis, MP of SYRIZA. Mrs Eleni Stamatakis, Member of SYRIZA's Board of Directors, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u410	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution, the foundation stone of the civil society, reflects the state development that is permeated by the struggle between rival interests and conflicting ideas and values. Since the moment is historical, I would like to make a special reference, since in my region we have the honour of linking ourselves historically to the first Constitution of Greece. Over ninety years have passed since the Third National Assembly of Troisena, in which the first definitive constitution of the free Greek state was decided, the most liberal and democratic for its time. The Convention, seeking to give the country a definitive city, inspired by democratic and liberal ideas and, of course, by the Greek Republic of the King, declared the new constitution for the first time the principle of popular sovereignty, enshrined the distinction of the state's powers and entrusted it to the parliament, the executive to the governor and the judiciary in the courts. It has properly protected the freedom, basic rights and equality of citizens and has banned slavery, torture and the retrospectiveness of laws. Today, in different political conditions, conditions of peace, national independence and democracy, but counting many wounds after a period of suffocating budgetary committee and after a dense political period of claim and change, we are at a central moment for democracy. The importance of today's debate is reinforced by the fact that, throughout Europe, democracy is threatened by the rise of extreme right-wing perceptions. That is why strengthening democracy is interlinked with the resurgence of neoliberalism. Our proposal is set out in four axes that broaden the main axes already introduced by the first joint constitution: Enlargement of democracy by establishing mere proportionality and the limitation of parliamentary immunity and term of office. Discretion of State and Church. Introduction of institutions of direct democracy to strengthen the role of the citizen. Strengthen the protection of universal public services and social rights. Today the introduction of mere proportionality is essential for the revival of the political system. After a series of elections, which resulted in governments of cooperation, there is an urgent need to develop a culture of cooperation and consensus on the basis of programming agreements. Besides the need, it is also our duty to give each vote equal value by abolishing the system of the first party's premium. At the same time, we propose that the Greekism of the Diaspora should be given the opportunity to have an expression and a reason, which we have been promising for many years with the election of a representative. We must also bear in mind that in the last thirty years the cultural composition of the Greek population has changed. Greece, from a country of origin, has become a host country. Modern societies are pluralist, and in this direction of harmonious coexistence we need to talk about integration of migrants and refugees, and it is a very essential performance of civil rights. This is why the right to vote and to stand as local government institutions is being proposed for foreigners with permanent residence in the country. Today immigrant and immigrants or refugees, economic oppressed, LGBT people, victims of racial violence are not an invisible minority. Institutions are therefore needed to protect diversity and train society in acceptance. These are issues of democracy. We are proposing the constitutional safeguarding of the absolute protection of life, honour and freedom, without discrimination of sex, gender identity and sexual orientation. It is a heavy obligation to restore the absolute value of human life and dignity, physical integrity at this very last political moment, to talk about protecting basic social goods: health, education, social protection and the environment. Against attitudes that they want in the context of the free market to become the social goods north of the capital, we propose a fundamental constitutional guarantee for the social state. We propose that the state should guarantee a decent standard of living for all, as well as the universal access of all people to effective health benefits. We are proposing to guarantee public control of basic social goods, such as water and electricity, so that their distribution networks are subject to public service and are subject to public control. We propose the constitutional recognition of equal pay for equal work and the prohibition of the qualification measure to deal with the consequences of the strike. There was a lot of talk about separating State and Church. For us it is a worthwhile matter for this division to go ahead. A modern, democratic, pluralist state must also be religiously neutral. Of course, religion is guaranteed, but rationalization is needed in relations between the State and the Church and the liberation of political life from religious criteria. In this direction we are proposing that the political oath be established for the President of the Republic and the Members. We want a state that protects religious freedom and worship and is not bound to the religious feeling of a particular part of society. SYRIZA's proposals stem from the experience of the crisis. We want to make it clear that the proposal for the Constitutional Review is a proposal to strengthen the protection of individual and social rights and strengthen political life. It is a proposal to strengthen democracy itself. At this critical state time, we should all stand up to circumstances and defend values over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u411	Thank you Ms. Helen Stamatakis, SYRIZA MP at the 1st Piraeus. Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios, MP Kilkis of the New Democracy. Mr. Christoforos Vernardakis, Minister of State, will then speak. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr President. I was wondering, ladies and gentlemen, whether society is following this top parliamentary procedure, whether it is part of the procedures that have been carried out in the committees today in plenary, a decision and a direction that should change the lives of our fellow citizens. The Constitution is always an opportunity to develop a country and to monitor historical developments. It is an opportunity, even more so, to provide individual rights and civil relations with the state, but at the same time - and above all - it must be an opportunity to develop, an opportunity to update the environment and the conditions to be offered by the state to citizens, the businessman, the young man, the student, the student, to all citizens, so that they can create a better and safer environment. Unfortunately, however, society is absent from this debate. And the responsibility is usually - and above all, here it is, and I would say only - the government. The Government did not dare a review that would really monitor developments and would give a signal to all citizens and a direction which would indeed create conditions at all levels of faster development of the citizens' essential participation in social and political life, a safer framework for the business world and, more generally, would not safeguard all the demands which have arisen in the period of the crisis. The first revised article, for me, is 110. Article 110 is what defines the procedure for a Review. It is right that the New Democracy's proposal to abolish the five-year period between the launch of the new Review procedure and the former one should be abolished. When I speak outside with the citizens and tell them that if today, in this House, it is not acceptable to amend articles in the next few years, then it has to be a whole decade. A decade, in a time as we live it, it's a century old. You can't watch either social or economic or political developments. So the first thing we should accept - and I think it does not hurt anyone in relation to their ideological starting point - is precisely Article 110. To maintain the strictness of the revisions, because it is a top-level process, but at nothing would bother us that the five-year period between the revisions should be abolished. And you know why? This is even more essential today when we hear government ministers say that with this Review we will be able to encroach on the revision of Article 16 on the creation of non-state universities for ten years. If Article 16 - and I am going to refer to this, because I believe that it has a flagrant character throughout this process - it is not voted on as one of the revised articles, we will wait for ten years for our students, who go abroad today, to be able to study in Greece, so that our researchers, our academics, who are seeking work abroad, can work at universities in our country, so that a new development pillar can be created with the attraction of foreign students in our country, as it could very easily be linked to an academic work in the country with culture, which our homeland offers. So this possibility for the entire Greek population, but above all for our young people, you are depriving it of it because, while it is inconsistent with any practice, no given in the world, we are the only country in UNESCO in which non-state universities are allowed to operate. And, of course, I will not ask you to answer how you see that even Cuba is allowed. I don't expect to get an answer to that. It will be assessed and judged the success of such a reform, such a review through its implementation and implementation. But here, not for ideological reasons, but basically ideologically deny this major reform. At the same time you are doing something else in some articles that you evaluate as a reviewer today, but your practice of even these days, even a few months ago, was disgraceful. Today in the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics you have once again supported the protection of people under Article 86 of the Constitution simply because they have the status of Minister. This alleged article, as you have said, does not provide any horizontal protection to anyone who is merely a Minister and commits a crime, but even this article, as is currently the case, does have to do with the alleged offence in connection with the exercise of ministerial duties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But you, in repeated and systemically speaking, are using - I am ending in half a minute, Mr President - this article and protecting your own ministers. This is a missed opportunity for the Review, if you stick to your positions to this day. And I'll tell you something else. Twenty days ago in this Chamber, you bound the country with the Prespecies Agreement, the harmful, in my humble view and in the view of the great majority of the Greek people. Today you are committing the country to a regression with the audacious and ideological review you prefer. For all this, however, you will be judged by the Greek people, because his assessment is the only one you cannot avoid. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr Georgios Georgioda, MP Kilkis of the New Democracy. Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, Minister of State and MP of Athens, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there are four key questions that arise in connection with the constitutional review. Question first: Is a constitutional review necessary today? The political system, which was established and established after '74, has already exhausted all the promotional dynamics involved in the 3rd Hellenic Republic since the mid-90s. Since the mid-90s, policies to reduce the State's regulatory role and to increase the privatization of state policies have led to a reduction in the concept of public social good and democratic social contract. At the same time, they were accompanied by increasing political dependence on economic interests. The state of structural authoritarianism has been intensified by the imposition of the memorial class policies, by the symphony of the old partisanism with the major economic interests, as well as the corruption that has come to become a methodology of the country's governance. Therefore, without the Constitution of 1975 as such being responsible for developments, the new reality does not cease to require a deep re-orientation of the regulatory frameworks of public interest, as well as the modernisation of the basic institutional functions. It is also necessary to remove those paraconstitutional rules that especially in the years of the crisis have emerged strongly, taking advantage of either the gaps or ambiguities of the 1975 Constitution and subsequent revisions. Question 2, is there any need for political consensus to revise the Constitution, or is consensus a dynamic process that has a historical maturation? I am referring indirectly to the previous speaker. The 1986 Review focused on the lifting of the powers of the President of the Republic, proposed and imposed unilaterally by the then ruling party, and indeed in a context of great political polarization. However, it has created a acquis and has never been called into question since then even in subsequent revisions. The 2001 Review was carried out in a completely consensual context between the two major parties at the time, PASOK and the New Democracy, and took up a very large number of articles in the Constitution. However, it did not touch on the core of institutional functioning, it did not leave, as the New Democracy itself admits in its explanatory statement, any institutional footprint was a revision of a zero sum. Finally, the 2008 Review, also in a consensual institutional framework, was limited to secondary issues, leaving also an institutional footprint. So what does the review process show? It shows that when consensus is a supposedly technical governance, it is unreasonable and pointless. The institutional union is productive and dynamic when it puts the main political and social dilemmas and the main strategic differences at the centre. Consensus is not an ideological regulatory procedure that can be controlled by legal formalism. That is why the review we are debating today will prove the most powerful and serious review process that has ever been done, because there is a wide difference between the political forces, but through this difference what has been revised it will have resulted from strong and real convergence and not from institutional micro-educations. Question 3: What are the major differences, as recorded in the positions and proposals of the parties? The main difference lies in the direction to be taken by public regulators in the years to come. Our view is that the radical upgrading of the social state and the recognition in the Constitution of State guarantee through universal social services and income support at the level of living, the strengthening of universal access to the National Health System, the safeguarding of social security as a single universal coverage system, the definition of the social goods of water, energy, networks, the integration of new rights into the Constitution, such as those relating to disability, the strengthening of labour rights and collective bargaining is the way to go. On the other hand, we are in the direction of the smaller social state and the smallest possible regulation. The view expressed throughout the New Democracy proposal is a view that is far away from even the liberal model that the state must intervene by regulating inequality of interest when these inequalities may be painful for state or social cohesion. The most clear case in the New Democracy proposal is the constitutionalisation of control mechanisms against fiscal derailment, i.e. the constitutionalisation of the budgetary cut at all levels of the'state organisation', as stated in its explanatory statement. The other characteristic proposal concerns the revision of Article 16, which proposes freedom to establish private universities, which affects the core of equal and open access to a public asset, such as the provision of education and education. Question IV: Are there any of these consensual changes which will give impetus to the country's institutional political modernisation? Although the proposals conflict two completely different ideological choices for the future of our country, there are also mature convergence points, which is the present Review very substantial. The first convergence relates to the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament. Let us make it clear here - I am opening a parable here - that our own constitutional proposal has as a central thread the strengthening of the role of Parliament and of Members as a decisive decision-making centre, which is reflected in the constitutionalisation of electoral laws and in the constructive motion for distrust, but also in the duty of the Prime Minister not to be a non-parliamentary. A second convergence relates to the overtime change in Article 86. Finally, a third convergence relates to Article 101A and the selection of administrations to the independent authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, one final comment. The constitutional review process is central to the country's deep institutional modernisation. But it is parallel and must be organically linked to the country's national plan for productive reconstruction, with the development strategy. In fact, it's the twin tool that puts the country in the new memorial era. Productive reconstruction and Constitutional Review by common denominator of the emergence of work at the main advantage of the country are the fields that will define the new era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u415	Thank you Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, MP and Minister of State. Mr. Ioannis Tsironis, Member of SYRIZA in 2nd Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is really a very important, historical process, and that is why I would ask everyone to stand up to the circumstances and not to try to confront other ideas and similar things. They're not helping dialogue. It does not help dialogue a counter and an acidification at the moment. I'll start, first of all, from Article 24. It is a historical article that has also become a model in European legislation on how to have a sustainable economy and sustainable development. Unfortunately, we are again aiming at Article 24, the article on the protection of nature and our forests, from people from whom I have just heard a moment ago at the meeting called by a colleague from the Officerate of Anti-Population the heavy characterisation of being a brake on development. So again, with fresh blood in Matty, to talk about growth means some more villas, a few more cement in our forests! And if it doesn't fit somewhere else, let's put them in the woods. I will only give one example of what forest wealth is developing. At the moment, without counting our only mushrooms, our only medicinal plants, our only trees that do not exist elsewhere in the world, only from the narrow foresting, from logging, should Greece have 4% of GDP, namely 7 billion more wealth. We don't have him right now. We have 0.1% of GDP. So why, ladies and gentlemen, do we not use this forest wealth and sit down, saves and well, to see the forest as a wheelset, as a dead spot? In Greece at the moment, all the time, when we talk about nature, we mean something far-reaching, something that we'll build. It's the wrong attitude. It's a disastrous mentality. It's disastrous for our economy, not just for the environment. I'm moving on to Article 16. I will begin with a very simple example. Today in Germany to become a farmer, not a farmer, it takes three years of study, one year in school and two years in the field. I will not mention here what these studies mean because time does not allow for. I shall mention a very simple result. The German farmer often makes much more money than the philosopher, from the chemist, from the doctor, from the lawyer, has prestige, has dignity, has social familiarity. And of course, the one who wants to be a farmer wants to be a farmer. He's not looking to go to Bulgaria to find a dubious quality university to get a paper. In Greece, then, at the moment, we have the opposite. We keep saying our kids are leaving outside. But do we need private universities? Let's see if we need it. What are these universities? What is missing from Greece? First of all, let us make it clear that, in the world, we are talking about serious institutions - we are not talking about institutions of dubious quality - no university is profitable. There's no businessman who makes money out of this story. Only scientific magazines to get, to which you have to be a subscriber, not to talk about campus, not to talk about the stadiums, not to talk about the labs. There's no way. Look at the budget of any university. Tuition does not cover 5% -6% either. In practice they are institutions living from sponsorships, such as Harvard, for example, that some charities were founded and still maintained by charity of some donors. Let me remind you that Metsovio in Greece was thus founded. From Metsovites. The Averof Tositsa, Stournaris, put the money, but they didn't have the money to support it. They gave it to the Greek government to support it. It's a huge cost to keep a Metsovio. But here in Greece do we really need seats? Does anyone know if they're missing university posts right now? So let me tell you that Greece has a record of university positions right now. We have too many positions. And doctors and lawyers and trainers and any other specialty. And where do we get when we have so many scientists? They're studying the kids and we've got Brain Drain. They're leaving. They can't stay in Greece. The population is not enough. Not just the crisis. Brain Drain is an old story. It's not now with the crisis. And our kids used to go out. A lot of my classmates came up and went out. They couldn't get a job in Greece as chemists. That's just what I'm saying. But why is this obsession, while we know that, many times, plumbers or craftsmen make much more money and are looking for a scientist? Why are we insisting? The reason is simple. Historically after the Civil War because there was a great deal of pressure for our children from a state of abyssele which, in fact, did not let anyone advance, which the world was leaving outside, which the world was rooted out, the only confidence of the citizen was the "paper". This was the historical reason why parents insist, so that we do not have proper professional orientation. But what value would they have a few more degrees? Could our children with degrees of these doubtful universities go outside and compete? Could they be in Greece? In Greece, it's just the paper that counts. If we go to England, where there are these kind of colleges, you'll see that for a chemist to work from these colleges, he'll have to have a professional familiarity. I mean, he's going to give other tests to work as an accountant, as a teacher, as a lawyer. That's not good enough. It's another model of training there. But that's not what you say when you talk to the kids who want to leave, that's where they don't count the degree. So it is, in fact, micro-participation to exploit the agony of our children on a very critical issue. And I'm saying very simple. If we want to discuss what we need as a country in studies and see how many doctors we want, how many lawyers we want, really see what we need to professional, see how this country's going to go ahead, what we need there in farmers' specialisation, then we need to discuss if there are no jobs left. I can assure you that if there are no seats, there will be those philanthropists, the great people who have wealth and will, in fact, go to the foundations that we already have and provide another seat that the state does not have money to build. We have the famous Niarcheo. Right now, there are institutions that if we told them we needed a hospital, we need IT positions, yes, they would. I'm sure they would. It is not whether it will be a private or public criterion, but I insist that we talk about proper professional orientation. That's what we have to offer our children and not felons of the type "go outside and if you don't leave, we'll make ten times as many lawyers as you are unemployed as a majority". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u417	Thank you Mr. Ioannis Tsironi, MP for the 2nd Athens of SYRIZA. Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, Member of the European Parliament Larissa of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Constitution should be at the top of the country's political life, because it is the constitution that regulates the core of the civilisation. The more complete the constitutional provisions are the more positive and long-term they have. Stronger proof of this reality is the 1975 Constitution, on which our democracy, the longer-lived of the modern Greek state, was built. However, times change and the Constitution must respond to the new facts, especially after the years of the long crisis, which the political system has suffered severe damage and its credibility has been damaged. A new dynamic of strengthening confidence in the institutions is therefore needed, but also of highlighting new legislative tools that will open roads to education, economic activity, environmental protection. The Constitution, of course, is not the fountain of solving all the problems. It is, however, the foundation for the necessary reforms. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Revision of the Constitution, which requires consent, takes place with government responsibility shortly before the curtain of the merciless tragedy that we have been experiencing over the last four years. It is undoubtedly a temptation to discuss changes in the Constitution aimed at restoring the credibility of policy in such a parliamentary environment, with what is happening to rescue the government majority, phenomena that favour political life and Parliament. However, it appears that SYRIZA uses the process of Revision of the Constitution as a means of promoting ideals, in order to confirm its left-hand identity, which, of course, due to the signatures it has placed in the memorandum and the way in which it is governed. That is why his proposals are not accompanied, as he should have done, by a spirit of consensus, but by a dissatisfactionful, pluralistic and disgraceful speech for his political opponents. Everything is subjected to the altar of elections, which come wanting or not. At the same time, with arbitrary interpretations, it attempts to give the impression that, apart from the revised articles, the content of the changes is now agreed. In other words, it seeks to force the majority of the next House on how to revise the new articles. Evidently, government arguments have no precedent and can withstand any criticism. For us, the Revision of the Constitution is an opportunity for the political forces to find a common place to achieve the best. That is why, in addition to our own proposals, we are prepared to vote on every proposal that we believe is in the interest of the country, such as the decoupling of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of Parliament and the proclamation of national elections. We have recently experienced the election of the President of the Republic twice: in 2009 and 2014. This tool of overthrowing of governments must be stopped. The same positive view is taken of the revision of the articles on parliamentary immunity and of the responsibility of Ministers, which have in the past blurred the image of parliamentary function. It is important, however, to revise the notorious Article 16, which requires the State monopoly in tertiary education. It is a pity to lose another ten years for a truly radical change in our educational things. Unfortunately, this seems to be the government target. But this irrationality must be stopped. Not all of our neighbouring countries can have jumped, Cyprus has become an educational podium attracting tens of thousands of students, having five private universities and we have to rupture staggering stains on the left of the 1970s, as the previous speaker did. Finally, it is out of place and time that any change to Article 3 that regulates relations between Church and State. SYRIZA may wish to sell leftism, but history does not change with desires. The Orthodoxy is intertwined with the Nation and its struggles for freedom and for this reason by the first constitutions, what was written in the fields of the battles of the Revolution, Orthodoxy and the Church had this special place. Nothing has changed since it imposed a change in the article. Orthodoxy is the religion of the overwhelming majority of the Greeks. Nor, of course, is any wording necessary about neutrality. Article 13 clearly safeguards religious freedoms, which are fully respected. So what's the big deal? Who benefits a State breach with the Church of Greece and the Ecumenical Patriarchate? Unless there's some other design we don't know about. I hope, however, that the recent visit by the Prime Minister to Agia Sophia and Halki, next to the Ecumenical Patriarch, made him see the "light the true" and put to the end the aristocratic turbulence. After all, in his opposition to the Patriarch, Mr. Tsipras himself mentioned St. Fotios, the Beast of the Halki Monastery. Is it therefore worth studying the memorial letter of the Great Light “What is the work of the prince?” To Michael the Lord of Bulgaria, where he describes the ideal model of the leader and rightly considered an antidote to the machibelic view of the unscrupulous ruler. I fear, however, that the life to date shows that you are followers of Machiavelli and the end that sanctified the means. Unfortunately, your proposal for the revision of the Constitution has not escaped either. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u419	Thank you to Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos, MP for the New Democracy and for the consistency in time. Mrs. Panayota Dritselli, Member of the SYRIZA Trikalon Law, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u420	Ladies and gentlemen, the process of Revision of the Constitution is a leading institutional moment, which defines not only the state's function but also the protection of social goods, rights and freedoms of citizens. The real challenge of the Constitutional Review is how they will safeguard themselves with increased formality and as fully as possible the socially acquired and how democratic institutions will be further strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we consider every moment at what time this debate is taking place. Can anyone say that this dialogue is standing or could stand neutrally against the experience of the multiannual crisis in the face of the wounds and consequences of this crisis, the violent fiscal adjustment to austerity policies? Or can we also be entitled to whistle indifferently against the appearance of ghosts of fascism and racism, the extreme intolerance and action that seems to be becoming increasingly gaining ground and taking place at all levels of public life? Are we entitled to whistle indifferently on the continuing depreciation of the political system and the institutions? Should the democratic political parties, which are the cells of democracy, or should they be actively responding to these forms of degeneration, contributing in the best way possible and in all possible parliamentary means to this topical process? In this context they do not, in my view, fit any kind of intentions or parliamentary terminology, which, at the end of the day, undermine the process itself and ultimately democracy and parliamentaryism itself. The Greek society is demanding - and rightly in my view - that we stand up to this historic moment and time. We must respond - and each party separately and every parliamentary group and every Member of Parliament - in a clear and clear way to the perception of what articles should be reviewed and in what direction, in order to respond to these new challenges and new data. As regards the proposal by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, I would like to remind you here that a Special Dialogue Committee on Constitutional Revision had been set up on the initiative of the Prime Minister. This unreasonable process had been quite obscured by the New Democracy and by the PASOK, although from the outset it had been clear that this finding would not be binding, but it was intended to give social added value and to convey citizens' thoughts to critical issues that affect their lives. The result of this dialogue is to a large extent the proposal of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, which draws on its social references from the world of work, from those who are fighting hard for justice, democracy, human dignity, for the protection of social goods. This proposal is on the side of those who want more direct democracy, with those seeking more fair growth, emphasising the protection of the goods which respond to the fundamental needs of human dignity. Water, energy, networks, access to health, mountainity and insularity, the State's commitment to ensuring a minimum acceptable living are social goods and acquired which the SYRIZA's proposal wants to put under the protection of the increased formality of the Constitution. In addition to protecting social goods, this proposal includes important initiatives towards deepening the social protection of individual and democratic rights and freedoms and ecology. The protection of labour acquired, collective agreements and minimum wages, the upgrading of social welfare, are crucial fields for the social nature of the State. In the field of individual and democratic freedoms, SYRIZA's proposal on constitutional revision includes a number of measures, such as the institution of the referendum on a popular initiative, the possibility of submitting a motion for a law also on a popular initiative, compulsory recourse to a referendum on ratification of an international agreement granting national sovereignty, popular assemblies and local referendums. These are some of the important state-of-the-art innovations included in this proposal. At the same time, in the field of individual rights, it is proposed to protect freedom of sex, gender identity and sexual orientation, while in the field of environmental protection the issue of the constitutional safeguarding of animal welfare is raised. The religious neutrality of the State is guaranteed, while at the same time recognising his historical relationship with the Church. State's relationship with the Greek dispersion is strengthened. The possibility of a parliamentary representation is also introduced. On the crucial issue of protection against corruption and the complexity, the point of top of the proposal is the abolition of the amortisation deadline for investigating criminal responsibilities of the ministers. No corruption case will be able to enter the drawer, thus affecting society and the credibility of the political system. All these initiatives, ladies and gentlemen, were not accidentally included in our proposal. On the other hand, they are ideological fields on which social and political struggles have been given over the years. The conflict with the neoliberal and maintenance forces on these issues was lasting, with considerable wins and wins for society, such as increasing the minimum wage, restoring collective labour contracts, social income of solidarity, and accessing uninsured citizens to health. As in those social battles, of course, and today, we are confronted with the ideological references and political positions of the New Democracy, which are all the proposals to amend articles that broaden social goods and rights, but also with absolute ideological insistence on measures of constitutional consolidation of neoliberalism, the introduction of market immunity, the abolition of all protection of labour, private universities, and the fight against all proposals for the protection of health, water, public control over the social good of energy. The Revision of the Constitution in the progressive direction will mark, without reservation, the fair development and democratic reconstruction of the state after a difficult time of crisis. With its proposal, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group is trying to give answers to all these critical issues, trying at the same time to guarantee everything the people have gained with their sacrifices and efforts in previous years. These conquests cannot stay in the middle. On the contrary, they must be given the widest possible consensus so that in the new era for the country, man and needs can also enter a constitutional level in the face of the demands and wishes of the markets.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Ms. Panayota Dritsel, SYRIZA MP of Trikala Prefecture. Mr Nikolaos Friend, MP SYRIZA I Athens has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, is the bankruptcy constitution responsible? Is the Constitution for Corruption, Compromise, Customer State, People's Party and Nationalist Demagogy responsible, the destruction of the coasts and forests, the explosion of deficits, unemployment? [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] They were the creditors who framed the Constitution and I heard the same thing reproducible in this Chamber today. Economic bankruptcy, however, was the result of political bankruptcy, of the crisis of the country's growth and political management model by the once-in-a-half majority bipartism, which gradually, especially after our accession to the euro, was sealed by the inequalities created by neoliberalism between the countries of the North and the European South. The indictment of the Constitution has been an anti-democratic trick, a political engineering, in order to impose the memorials on fire and iron. After all, the Constitution has been tested - and sometimes it has been bogged down, it is the truth - by the method of the troika, as a state of emergency has been imposed and the democratic right of the people to choose between alternatives and opposite economic and social policies has been challenged. One-way and a constitution are opposing concepts. As torture and gradually come out of the monumental adventure, we have a duty to reconstitute and broaden the social and political rights of citizens, strengthen popular participation and change politics, giving it democratic and moral content, in line with the citizens' hopes for fair growth, focusing on work and the social state, but also with respect for the environment. This is our patriotic duty, while at the same time seeking one - as far as possible - an equal place for the country in a Europe that needs to be changed in order not to be dissolved. The Constitution is the backbone of the country's democratic regeneration and its productive reconstruction. Obviously the Constitution must be the result of consensual procedures, of creating conditions for popular unity and progress, but consensus is not achieved in a vacant manner. Conversely and at the same time promotes the existing political and social relation. In this sense, there is no neutral constitutional revision. The New Democracy proposes its own identity, that of the constitutionalization of neoliberalism itself, namely the acceptance of inequalities as natural phenomena and the attachment to conservative concepts of nation and religion, which devour Greece to stereotypes of ethnic strife, religion and racism. It proposes the constitutional adoption of the balanced budget. This is a Memorandum of Memorandum of Memorandum of Understanding, which limits the scope for conducting public policies and unbundling space for the great private interests. It's not a household, it's a dive of the state's silvers. Article 16: Private universities and not non-State, non-profit, formerly said by the New Democracy. It is important to shift to terminology from New Democracy, because in fact the road to privatising downgraded private schools is at the bottom of all international rankings. Read the study of the NRP on the international classification of universities. The NRP is in position two hundred and seventy-one in that list. And the colleges that New Democracy suggests to us to do universities are in positions from twenty-two thousand to twenty-three thousand in the ranking table. So much, then, you believe in excellence, gentlemen of the New Democracy! You blame us for ideology because we do not want to trade higher education. Did Constantine Karamanlis, the National Chief in the 1975 Constitution, have he been ideoleptic when he also refused to move on to what you are now adopting and entering? A university has operational independence, postgraduate and research leading to doctoral qualifications. In these private universities, who will designate the teaching staff and the curriculum? Will the owner, the market? What is the meaning of the independent supervisory authority? What university in the world is supervised by such a principle? Will we have a repetition of an independent authority, such as the caricature of the Broadcasting Council? Which university foreign institution will come to Greece under such supervision? Apparently, none. Therefore, as is the case in Greece, it concerns precisely those undergraduate and low academic colleges, whose owners have actually written the relevant proposal of the New Democracy. It is a completely different thing to work with Greek universities with formal institutions of foreign affairs, as well as the operation of foreign language programs in Greek HEIs with foreign students and tuition fees that will highlight the scientific advantages of our universities, attract foreign students, take advantage of a schooler today. I now come to the question of the relationship between the Church - State. After many years, SYRIZA has attempted one - in my opinion - limited and relentless change, although the request for the separation of the State - Church is welcomed by a large majority. According to polls, separation gathers from 54% to 74.5%, while not being priests' civil servants wants 78%. In favour of burning the dead is 73%. Also, 53% agrees with the direction of a worldly state. The figures are from surveys of companies such as ‘RESEARCH’, ‘BRIDGING EUROPE’ and others. The separation of State-Church is a mature social demand with which both the freedom of the religious conscience of all citizens and the democratic neutrality of the state are guaranteed. This mature social demand has caused the risk of the conservative circles, the lentils' foods, literally and transportly. Any agreement that comes with the Church must obey the principles of public interest. We do not want a religious state and a state-run church. We do not want religious leaders to be turned into political and state actors, nor political leaders - ministers willing to overthrow the government if the Archbishop allows them. As in 1975, the great turning point in post-multipleism laid the constitutional foundation of the national and social path, so today there are new possibilities for broadening democracy with this Review, only that we are now on a political transition path and will need a great deal of effort to finalise the country's new state profile in relation to development, democracy and social cohesion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr Christos Karagiannides has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr President. The Constitutional Review, as well as the Constitution itself, results most of the times in social and political directions that come out of these social and political relations. This means that a Constitution, as Nikos Friend said before, is not neutral, as New Democracy wants to show it. The Constitution is not a regulatory framework within which the Greek state is called upon to live. The Constitution also has shades and obviously also has ideological appreciations. The constitutional review we are attempting this time reflects demands and political directions that should be discussed and, if judged by majority vote, voted in favour. What are the guidelines, however, and what are the demands of our constitutional review? Here, there is a dividing line, in which we can also see clearly the political geography of plenary as it stands today, but also the demands of what people and what social classes each political group wants to serve. I will give you a few examples of what the right side of the House supports and what the left side of the House supports. In Article 21, we call for an addition, paragraph 7, to guarantee public control of basic social goods such as water, electricity and networks. What did you vote for with the Change Movement and the Golden Dawn? You voted 'no'. You do not want there to be public control over these basic goods, because you are in favour of the free market, and you are very little interested in having these goods in the possession, therefore also in the control of society. Article 22(1): Equal pay for everyone with the addition and clarification of age, so that we never again see this indulgence of the under-paid wage that you spent in the years of the crisis and only had the separation of people because they were under the age of twenty-five years. What voted for the Change Movement, the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn? They voted 'no'. Article 22(2), (4) and (5) refers to employment rights guaranteed by constitutional law and leave no margin to any government to stalk them. In fact, we are talking about collective rights for workers, as in paragraph 4, where, in a very clear way, workers will be banned from being recruited, a completely inappropriate piece of legislation that you have managed in previous years and cannot exist in a favoured state. But even in articles that do not have such a clear political sign, such as Article 56(5), to restrict births, what did you, the PASOK, the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn vote for? You voted 'no' because you have a career in politics, you consider it your property, and you do not want to restrict the terms of the terms, as the entire Greek society has discussed all this time. I will go through two cases, which I have signed as amendments to the Constitution. The first relates to Article 5(2), which states that the Constitution must focus on human beings. The safeguarding and protection of individual and social rights must be reflected in the country's constitutional charter. Every review process like this, which wants to serve the democratic course of the country, must return to society and reflect its multiplicity, photograph society as it is at the moment and look at the future not fearfully but progressively. Especially at today's juncture, where fascist and neo-fascist behaviors undermine the right of every person to the free development of his or her personality and his or her personal freedom, this becomes even more imperative. Article 5(2) defined this right in terms of nationality, race, language, religious or political beliefs. The human identity, however, consists of all the social and individual designations that create the uniqueness of each person. They belong to gender, gender identity and sexual orientation. The recent legislative initiatives, the symbiosis and gender identity pact and the assumption are partly in response to a gap in acceptance of these people from the Greek society and the Greek state, a gap that not only returned but also fuelled the manifestation of racist, sexist and homophobic behaviors, sometimes fatal. Events of homophobia, transfusion and sexism continue to affect the daily life of many of our fellow citizens. Stereoty ideas, but also a lack of a legal framework, create obstacles to our fellow citizens on simple and daily issues such as work, trade, social and personal relations, ultimately the social recognition of important aspects of their identity. The constitutional safeguarding of the essential equality of independent sex, gender identity, sexual orientation is not just a need, but a precondition for a constitution that wants to be a protection shield for human rights. It also recommends correcting an important constitutional shortage, but also imprinting on the constitutional text of a request that is increasingly employing social actors, institutions and the scientific community in Greece and elsewhere. Finally, in Article 24, with an addition, we seek the welfare of all animal species in their living, keeping and import conditions. This does not mean that we limit livestock farming and slaughtering some species in order to feed. In addition to the European Directives on ‘animals’, animals are defined as reared or held for the production of food, wool, leather or other purposes of agricultural holdings. My colleagues have said enough, so I am not going to go any further into these two amendments. I'll hang up with this. We are attempting a constitutional review, having experienced eight hard years of monuments and having lived through the non-implementation of democratic processes and rights. This Review, therefore, opens up the debate on how a Constitution can protect us in all circumstances - in normal economic conditions, in abnormal economic conditions, in exceptional circumstances - so that workers do not see their rights being eliminated, people do not live in the depletion of their individual rights and society can breathe freely. In this context, the Constitutional Review is the first step and I think we will all be judged by our choices, and I mean all political parties will be judged by the choices they make and all parties are characterised by their social commitment. Obviously our social subjectivity is in favour of many rather than few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Following the agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait on the promotion and mutual protection of investments and Roman Communications on the correction of Article 11(2) of the Greek original". Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas, Member of the New Democracy Thesprotia, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u426	Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has proposed and will pursue a substantial and brave revision of the Constitution. It makes no sense to repeat what has happened in previous revisions, whether they have been subject to political purposes or have not touched the substance. The country does not need another such change. I need - to borrow a favourite word from some of our fellow Members - an institutional revolution. The extent of the proposed changes in our charter is that which ultimately shows what maintenance means and what progress is being made. Because here, ladies and gentlemen, we have two proposals where two worlds are mirrored, two different concepts, not only for the quality of our democracy, but also for the future of the country. Faced with the undermining of institutions and their political exploitation, we want institutions that are stronger, more operational and armored than any intervention against an abandoned, delinquent public administration. We want a more efficient, more flexible state-of-the-art development effort ally. In the face of central-state-dependent self-government, we want more autonomy for the municipalities and regions in practice, but also greater responsibility for OTAs towards the autonomy given to them. In the face of the long hand that the executive applies to judiciary, we seek to put an end to the ground and overhead routes between them and to safeguard the independence of justice. In voting and socially irresponsible public finance management, we are proposing to ensure financial equilibrium, transparency and accountability in the management of public money. In the face of the education of the least common denominator of immunity and decline, we are defending upgraded and autonomous universities and the possibility of our young people studying in private universities operating with strict supervision and standards. In your own clipping and fragmentary policies, we believe in organised planning and continuity of public policies in a collective and open way. In the investment anemia that you have immersed the economy, we propose changes for a friendly investment environment, with incentives and clear rules. In political turbulence and party strategies we want political stability and governance that the country so much needs. Be assured that we will do everything possible so that you do not re-elect your own purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have preferred to address a few issues on which the New Democracy proposal is addressed, such as public administration, education, justice, development, finance and self-government. These are all issues that SYRIZA's proposal leaves outside. Some of the people who are following us will wonder why the government has not dealt with these issues in the context of the Review. Some will say that the government's proposal is as shallow and rough as many other initiatives have been. Some others will argue that the Review is of interest only if it can and uphold more obstacles in the course of the next government, the New Democracy. Some third parties will say that this gap is due to SYRIZA's ideological fighting and actual poverty or the fear of not touching sensitive strings where he still thinks he can get votes. All the previous ones, each one of them, may be right, but much more with his proposal for the Constitutional Review, SYRIZA reveals one thing to us: It neither wants to change any of what they have cost in our country over the past few decades and that it still carries in its luggage some of the worst weights of postmultiple in ideas, attitudes and behaviours. We in the New Democracy are on the opposite side. We want the Constitutional Review to be confronted with the challenges of times, aimed at the future with knowledge of what has not worked properly in the past, to express a stable, reliable Greece, with confidence, a Greece that activates all its powers. If for you, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, the concept of a progressive sign has not been emptied of meaning, we invite you to give the Review the depth and substance it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. Mr Kegeroglu, MP for Heraklion of the Democratic Partnership, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u428	Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution - I think we all agree - is a leading process of our democracy, but it requires a broad consensus and a spirit of consensus. The formation of this climate is, of course, the responsibility of all the political forces, but above all the government. We must note that the wider climate is heavy. We have a complete lack of national understanding, conditions of institutions' desecration, choices that break the independent authorities. We did not create the right environment for the Revision of the Constitution, a review that will be seen in the future with the Greeks to consult on it. The political context and party intentions seem to be too much to influence the process, such as the insistence on SYRIZA, for example, that today by a simple majority the contents of the new wording of the provisions under review can be determined, but also of the New Democracy, which is basically in agreement with it, but that it should be the next majority, as it is hoped to be the same. These are short-term visas that don't help. I would remind you that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government had announced neighbourhood committees, debate with the people, a referendum on the Revision of the Constitution. Looks like he revisited them. It found that, because of its choices, both in the national issues and in the policies of suffocation it applies to society, it cannot do so. It does not dare to find itself with the citizens and to discuss with them. Here, therefore, in the House, in the procedure as provided for in the Constitution itself, in the committee debate, we tabled our proposals. The Change Movement - first of all - to remove any obstacles relating to the reference to the judiciary of members of the government, proposes the revision of Article 86, which is a common finding. This must also lead to the greatest possible consensus on the new content of the article. At the same time, we are proposing to change the article on the immunity of Members. In particular, it is proposed that parliamentarians should only be able to appeal and seek protection when their persecution is political or abusive. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis experienced by our country and citizens has highlighted important issues and gaps in the system. First of all, it highlighted the great need for the Constitution to call for social cohesion policies to be implemented to deal with severe phenomena, such as unemployment, with the cooperation of central government, self-government and civil society. Article 21 proposes express safeguarding as a general principle of the minimum standard of living for all citizens, as well as the free and inclusive access of all citizens to social goods. Article 21(4) also proposes the introduction of the provision that a special law defines the procedure and the conditions for obtaining housing assistance to those who are deprived of or are resident in poor conditions. For work and workers - Article 22 - we are proposing the strengthening, constitutional safeguarding and further upgrading of collective agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, climate change can no longer be a marginal issue or be a part of the country. Article 24 proposes the introduction of a provision for constant care and action by the State to address climate change, its negative effects and, of course, to protect biodiversity. Also, developments in new technologies - the fourth industrial revolution is at the door - require that we do not remain without a constitutional provision for the future. In particular, we are proposing to add an explicit reference to the need to take actions to ensure, on the one hand, human rights and a fair distribution of the wealth produced in the modern environment of technological development and the implementation of artificial intelligence. It is the bioethics issues that need to be brought in and anticipated in this Review. In Article 39 we propose that the Council of Political Heads should be convened to be able to be held by the President of the Republic. It's a very important matter. And we saw the previous time on the one hand the inertia of the only person responsible for proposing it today, the Prime Minister and, on the other hand, the inability of the President of the Republic to convene it after it has not been foreseen, but when it was necessary to do so. And in the future this need will not disappear, but there will be - I believe - more. I believe that no one in this Chamber is proud of the phenomenon of the amendments - particularly of the night - whether they relate to gifts to the strong, either to those who have been invaded or to photographic provisions for those who have recently been intensified and taken the form of an epidemic. We propose that any amendment introduced for discussion should be decided by an increased majority of Parliament's 3/5. For self-government we propose redefining the general competence of local government bodies and recognising the principles of proximity and subsidiarity, introducing explicit reference to specific responsibilities of self-government, social policy, health services, development planning and anticipation of specific resources or tax items in the context of fiscal decentralisation, the possibility of submitting legislative proposals to Parliament and the pilot implementation of self-government arrangements before universal application. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need some more time, Mr. President. The state, the public administration, is the fact that it has great inconsistency in respect of the time-limits, particularly as regards citizens' rights. Article 103 proposes the explicit constitutional provision that the exclusive time limits laid down by the law are not indicative but binding on the public administration. This concerns all citizens, all those who want to attempt, act, create. Finally, I want to refer to three personal proposals in brief. Firstly, a constitutional immunity is required for Parliament's Rules of Procedure with an increased majority in order to implement the changes immediately. Otherwise, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure which have been damaged by the House should apply from the next period. The second issue is the protection of property and citizens' rights, when the state goes on to expropriate. Article 17 requires a revision of the provision relating to the determination of definitive compensation when expropriation takes place and not when a debate is held in the court, which may also be after three, four, five, six years. Prices should be at the time of expropriation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u429	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u430	Finally, there is the AACC to staff and it is now a conquest that is irreversible. I propose that the three-year or long-term public recruitment programme with constitutional status should have the approval of the committee, of the public administration, of the House with an increased majority, so that it does not become a spiral on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u431	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u432	Furthermore, in order to take another major step towards the system of evaluation, development and promotion of public administration officials and the filling of heads of staff, to create a new, flexible and similar independent authority. For our vote, Mr President, I must say that it is part of our logic that the content today cannot determine the revision tomorrow. Previously one colleague spoke here and said that he did not vote for this party, he did not vote for the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u433	Mr. Kegeroglu, we're 10 minutes short. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u434	Where, for example, the Government and the New Democracy presuppose that a provision should apply with its content, the title should not be sufficient to vote on this provision. So we are voting for our own provisions and whatever we agree, from whatever party they have been proposed, either the New Democracy or the SYRIZA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u435	Thank you, too. Mr. Gregos, MP of the 2nd Thessaloniki since the Golden Dawn, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be in time. We do not know, of course, how this process will develop by tomorrow. I'll make a few brief remarks. It is a little acidifying, with Parliament's present recommendation, to discuss such important issues as the Revision of the Constitution and, in fact, to propose changes and amendments to parties which have repeatedly, consistently and systematically violated and violated the Constitution too many times. I am talking about New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA and other so-called democratic forces. I have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur speak of institutional injuries caused by the memoranda, what SYRIZA of course also voted for. In other words, the people who have devastated the Constitution and have offended it, as I have said many times. I also heard about popular sovereignty and democratic policy by the SYRIZA rapporteur. And all this following the vote of the betrayal agreement of the Ambassadors and the way it has been made, with the co-responsibility of SYRIZA and the New Democracy. I also heard about institutional normality and dignity. I cannot understand how SYRIZA's rapporteur has such disgusted courage. Of course, we have also heard from the New Democracy rapporteur about governmental control and discrimination of powers in justice. But who are you talking to? How dare you denounce what has become your usual government tactic? We know very well what you mean and what you have done, as the Greek people know. A common violation is also the violation of parliamentary procedures at all levels under the responsibility of the governments concerned. It is characteristic that hundreds of questions are not answered within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny, with unfounded excuses. However, when we ask questions to the relevant Ministries and they are not answered by the Minister, we do not do so for us, but for the Greek people, in order to denounce the wrong texts and solve essential problems. We will, of course, continue to ask questions. And that's what we're doing to expose you. You are applying the same practice by tabling unrelated amendments to bills, almost always late, in order to have a political interest, depending on the period, before or after an election process. There is nothing to be predicted about the huge problem of demographics and the immediate solutions to be taken. With regard to Articles: Article 21(1) of the Greek Constitution states: "The family as the basis for maintenance and production of the nation, as well as marriage, maternity, childhood and the rights of persons with disabilities are protected by the State". It should be added here to the concept of ‘parenthood’ and the concept of ‘parenthood’. As far as parliamentary immunity is concerned, we have said so many times. For Articles 62 and 86, it is our permanent position that all forms of privilege or immunity should be abolished for both parliamentarians and ministers. MPs must be criminally liable, like all the residents of this territory, to be subject to the law and to be accountable, tried and punished when they violate him. With regard to individual and social rights, I will make a general comment. For Articles 4 to 25, I have to say that the vicious political party system of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA in the years that have ruled - and are ruling - has sacrificed the dignity in the altar of political gain. For Article 15, the Golden Dawn notes that the Television Council has not performed its constitutional role or at least. What can we say here about the state channel and the PSE? Indicative is that ERT calls the "Macedonian land Greek" racist slogan of hatred and terrorism. And yet, we saw this on our TV screens! And these people don't forget we're paying for them. Shame and disgrace! For the political establishment the role of education is specific: The production of massagers, who when they are grown, will become good voters, without knowledge, without critical thought, without national consciousness, of suitable people to support a failed, inhumane, corrupt and at the same time resentful political system. For the Golden Dawn education should always be geared towards maintaining and promoting national values in order to serve the interests of the nation and the people. About Article 21(3), Golden Dawn is struggling for the development of a national system of free provision of health and welfare services to the Greek people. On the question of the organisation and functioning of the state - Articles 28 to 49 - we have to say that any provision restricting our national sovereignty is an inadmissible and incomprehensible provision. That is why we are totally opposed to Article 28. This is a serious constitutional, but also a state slip, which, however, is a manifestation of constitutional intentions to submit to the idea of European integration. The proposed revision of Article 29 of the Golden Dawn proposes that the Court of Auditors should make audits not only of the electoral expenditure but also of the financial management of the parties in general, as well as the auditing of the 'possibly concerned', i.e. the property situation of the ministers, MPs and candidates, as well as the imposition of the relevant sanctions, together with the provision of a discount on the post, depending on the gravity of the infringement. The parties - beneficiaries of state funding should be banned from the sale, strengthening the demand for state funding for the purpose of granting new bank loans. And, finally, what about these parties' loans? The Golden Dawn proposes the direct election of the President of the Republic by citizens through appeal to the electorate. There is a need for a corrective review of the provisions on the President of the Republic of Constitution and on the exercise of its powers in order to ensure that the institution plays its role in its nature and in the rational, democratic functioning of its regulatory role. We, of course, did not vote for Prokopi Paulopoulos as President of the Republic. In the proposed revision of Article 44, Golden Dawn proposes the following: A possible motion for a referendum on a serious national issue must have all the institutions of the country, namely the President of the Republic - such as the 1975 Constitution - the government - as the current Constitution defines - the parliament with at least one hundred and twenty members, the citizens with a certain number of signatures. A possibility for a referendum on adopted bills regulating a serious social issue - apart from budgetary matters - must have other than Parliament and citizens with a specific number of signatures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will only need one more minute. With regard to the vote of the Greek citizens who are outside the territory, on Golden Dawn it is important to adopt the vote of the Greek migrants. With the revision of Articles 51 and 108 you said you would bring a bill on the subject in December 2018. We haven't seen it yet. Mr. Pappas has been mentioned on the subject. We have also raised it several times in the Committee on Citizens' Rights. In conclusion, let me say this: Before you continue to legislate, take a walk in the cities, in the villages, in the people's neighborhoods to listen to what people say about everything that is going on. You dare go out without the police presence and you'll understand that your political time is over. You're just like the previous ones, just the same, just with a different face. And when you speak of the sovereign Greek people, think that he is the one who sent the Golden Dawn many to the Greek Parliament and is now the only political force he trusts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, Mr. Grego. Mr Katsotis, MP of Athens, of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A lot has been said about the nature of the constitution and the revisions by the JRC Members who spoke before. I will dwell on the individual and social rights included in it. The Greeks - it says - are equal before the law. Does anyone really think that the order that has power, which has the keys to the economy, is equal to the order that lives under its dictatorship? The reduction in wages, the abolition of collective agreements, the abolition of fixed working hours, part-time work, rotating work and so many others that make up the work jungle, who are serving? The welfare of the workers and the people or the profits of the few? Really, what equation is it that makes them all equal? The worker with the factory chief, the seafarer with the shipowner, the hotel worker with the hotel owner and so on.Huh? The overthrowing of the insurance expectations of workers, pensioners and pensioners, which has levelled the lives of millions of people, whose interests is he serving? What calls for the interest of capital, which broadens its freedoms, which restricts the freedom of workers and the people, is in the public interest. That is why you are passionately defending the constitutionality of the abolition of Sunday holidays, gifts, non-payment of retrospectives to workers and pensioners. The cheap labour force, the work according to the needs of production, the constant reduction in funding for health, education, social welfare, social security, "hot" money in business groups is the necessary condition for capitalist development. They are all subject to ensuring this need for capital. Today, public workers, with their rally, demanded the removal from Article 103 and from the whole of the Constitution of any provision which prevents or cancels the right to fixed and permanent work by prohibiting the conversion of contracts into an indefinite period. From now on, they say, to be guaranteed by the Constitution and to impose on all public services the permanentisation of all contractors. We submit the report on the Minutes, which has been delivered to all parties except the Golden Dawn. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the Minutes the above memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The JRC supports the demand, as well as the request for massive recruitment in health and education to cover major deficiencies. But you do not support such a prospect. Article 22 of the Constitution provides that work is a right and is protected by the State. What protection are you talking about with a million unemployed? Who deprives the job of hundreds of thousands of workers? Who's giving half a living job? Who engulf millions of euros in the name of unemployment, with the subsidy being only 10% of the unemployed? The team redundancies that you've truly legislated on, who are they protecting? Protecting the job? Does the abolition of any protective measures and the extension of the management right protect work? Article 21. Motherhood and childhood are under the protection of the state. Does anyone really think they're being protected? Have you not heard that business groups force young girls to sign a condition that they will not become pregnant and otherwise the employment relationship will be resolved for a breach of this condition? Haven't you ever heard of the war they're taking to resign? What protection, really, does the state provide childhood, when thousands of children are out of childhood, when one of the two parents stop working because there are no children's stations, when thousands of children are out of the socialisation process, when thousands of children work from 15 years of age, instead of being in the educational process, to live their childhood? Article 21: The State, says, takes care of the health of its citizens and takes special measures to protect the youth, old age, disability and the care of the absentees. What are the special measures for youth? Did the class barriers to education become ever bigger? Does the terms of pay and work, which are worse than those of their parents, or the generalization of the disciple in terms of a father? What are the special measures to protect old age? What about the busted pensions? The expensive drugs? Did you create a public protection structure for the elderly? What protection does the state give the disabled? Does the KEPC slaughterhouse, which, in its logic of functionality, under the new regulations, reduce disability rates by abolishing any protection they had up to now? What is the value of the proposed amendment to recognition of a social right to health and the obligation of the State to provide universal access to effective health services through the National Health System when your policy is increasingly marketing health and medicine when a large population lacks access to it? What is the protection of the needy that your system creates? The CRL crumbs? The arrays? Of course we do not underestimate anyone's support, even with them. However, the apes are the creation of this rotten system that you support. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Article 22 states that the general terms of employment are to be supplemented by collective agreements concluded with free negotiations. A few days ago, didn't you activate Brutsi? Didn't you abolish the collective bargaining and the minimum wage? Didn't you anticipate its formation by a government decision and suggesting business groups, since the criterion is to ensure their profitability? What does ‘minimum wage’ mean? What should it cover? Needs of the worker or needs of profitability? Your choice is clean, classic, for capital. Your logic is to be at the height of the CRL, the social solidarity allowance. Collective labour contracts: Keep or not all the legislative framework that overturned them? 90% of workers are without collective agreements. 10% of workers have collective agreements, but they do not apply to 90%. Keep the associations of persons who have been exploited for the dirty attack on workers' lives. What does your declarations have to do with the reality that workers live in modern slavery? You serve barbarity and she doesn't have a measuring unit. The right to strike: did you not, as a government, legislate 'lockout' and indeed its hardest form, the 'lockout' wage? Didn't you legislate new obstacles to proclaiming a strike, given that a 50+1 majority is required for the general assembly? 95% of strikes don't get out illegal? 'Protection' - you say - '...the trade union action'. Has your government not extended the reasons for legal dismissal of protected trade unions? In trade union redundancies, court rulings aren't usually against protection? Where is it secured? Sunday holiday: Did you not fully release Sunday holiday for six months per year in geographical areas such as Thessaloniki, Athens, Piraeus? Social security: Haven't your choices been the decisions of the European Union, which do not differ from the Pinochet model? Doesn't it break the social character? Does it not strengthen the capitalisation system, remuneration, private insurance? Is that a constitutional commitment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u439	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u440	I shall conclude, Mr President. Workers, pensioners, self-employed and farmers know what a constitutional guarantee will be for social security. They've lived through a lot of twists. They have no delusion that there can be a progressive democratic constitution within the framework of the current power of capital. However, the JRC has tabled proposals for constitutional revision, proposals that we put to the working class, to the people, to become a vulnerability of the labour-lover movement. We are tabling these proposals in the Minutes on the issue of individual and social rights. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Ms. Kavadia, MP of the 2nd Athens of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u442	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a common denomination to repeat and stress the importance of the constitutional review as a top institutional process of our parliamentary democracy. And it is not communal, because it is precisely the process that most clearly illustrates the deep ideological areas, the different philosophy, the different starting points and the different objectives set by each political area. This - I hope to stress - is a sign of a health policy, because fundamental in a democracy is that the citizen has clear and distinct choices. In recent years, however, the ideological simulation of conservative liberalism and social democracy, under the common umbrella of neoliberalism, has tried to eradicate these ideological lines and has led with mathematical accuracy to deculturalisation, which creates fertile ground for fascism. We already see that neoliberalism, as another political virus, seeks and finds new hosts in the various forms of right-wing populism, where its natural space is. That is why, in my speech, I would like to focus precisely on these provisions to be revised which highlight this ideological and political controversy. What, ladies and gentlemen, is the starting point of our own proposal for Constitutional Review? SYRIZA won the elections in Genaris and September 2015 because society trusted us to take the country out of the memorials and launch the transition to a new historic phase, away from the paths of the past. With the exit of the memoranda and the end of the strict committee, what is now urgent is the healing of the wounds of society because of the Memorandum and the institutional areas, with the aim of strengthening parliamentaryism, deepening democracy, promoting equality and equality, protecting social rights, the necessary institutional modernisation, transparency and accountability. So the axes of our proposal, which defines its unique class and ideological identity, are, on the one hand, the deepening and strengthening of individual and social rights and, on the other, the guarantee of the rationality of the democratic society. I'm picking up: Article 3 concerns the religious neutrality of the state, the fundamental conquest of European enlightenment, where yes, we want to go beyond the proposal under discussion, the complete separation of States and Churches. Article 5 refers to the extension of protection against discrimination and discrimination based on sex, gender identity and sexual orientation, which should normally be self-evident in a modern society. But for someone, unexplained reason is opposed to opposition. Article 21 concerns ensuring a decent standard of living for all, universal access to public health services and public control of water and electricity as social goods. Article 22: Substantial reinforcement of neoliberal disposition of labour rights and a ban on the qualification of work. Article 54 relates to the constitutional safeguarding of a mere analogous status as a permanent electoral system. And, of course, Article 86 concerns the abolition of the scandalous depreciation deadline for prosecution against Ministers. Finally, I think it is important to support, on this occasion, the possibility of exercising the electoral right in self-government elections to foreigners living permanently and legally in our country. It is an essential move for the integration of migrant communities into the Greek social fabric by means of a local democracy. On the other hand, what do we see the New Democracy has made a flagship of its proposal? But, of course, the revision of Article 16, with the aim of handing over the commonly accepted high level of university education in our country to speculate on private excellence, but excellence is controlled. However, precisely because we are talking about the country's charter, it is important to look for points of convergence and contact. There is the area of ideological confrontation, hard confrontation, which is both legitimate and expected. But there is also the scope of seriousness, of basic understanding. On the left side, for our part, on the SYRIZA side, it is clear that we are looking for and greeting those voices from other political places, which, without undermining blind fanaticism and unconditional rivalry, share this attitude. And that is why I cannot understand the feasibility and, in the end, the seriousness of some thoughts and proposals that have been heard by members of the New Democracy and by the PSY. and proposals, the core of which is to reject majority proposals, even if they agree with them, only for the sake of micropolitical confrontation and the exercise of a specific institutional blackmail, which is in no way consistent with the seriousness of the parliamentary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, 2019 is undoubtedly a year of critical political developments, not only for our country, but for the whole of Europe. In recent years it has become clear that history has returned to our continent and we must all be ready to deal with it, especially when the history of our continent - and our country - is so turbulent. Some naively thought that we had finally and irrevocably exiled the ghosts of the dark European past. Today, at the moment, we must move to prevent their total reinstatement. We must stand up for a defensive wall of democracy, a wall of solidarity and social justice against extreme right, fanaticism, darkness, nationalism. We must, however, also go to counter-attack, strengthen democracy, participation, human rights. If this applies to Europe, we must be sure that it also applies to our country. It becomes another dimension, if we look at it in this light, the process of constitutional revision. It is the most powerful institutional message that the Greek Parliament can give, a message that democracy, the rule of law and human rights, not only are they not in retreat, but they are militantly claiming their insight, spread and deepening. That not only are we not prepared and prepared to allow the slightest regression, but we are seeking and achieving bold steps forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u443	Thank you very much, Mrs Cavadia. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor for seven minutes. We'll reach about thirty-four. Scheduled up to 1,00'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u444	We have another list, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u445	Good. I shall read out the names of at least what I see here, because you are not all colleagues here. I'll check the list and let you know later. Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u446	Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is the compass for the functioning of the institutions, the rule of law and the safeguarding of citizens of all kinds of arbitrary nature. His Review is at the heart of the functioning of democracy and the debate on the Review must be dealt with with with respect, conducted in a climate of consensus, away from polarisation and expediency, which - rightly said before - must not concern in general and vaguely not to do anything or to change institutions what we need to change, but also to move forward in progressive areas, changes and reforms, i.e. consensus can lead rather than stop any changes, and of course not to stop any changes that we have to change. When I talk about regularism, we have seen too many since this process of constitutional revision started. I would remind you that at some point the New Democracy had said that there was absolutely no debate in this House, that we should simply decide to review all the articles and that the next House should review them all. That is, in fact, only to be done in a parliamentary term, which is the opposite of what the constitutional legislature provides for. But here, today, we see a lot of tactics. We hear from Parliamentary groups, for example, that they will not vote on certain articles so that they do not get more than one hundred and seventy-nine votes. Regularity not to vote for an article, not because you believe it or you don't believe it, but why you don't want to take some votes more, so that it doesn't create conditions, so that it can facilitate its vote from the next House as well. So, everyone should stay away from this critical debate on the Constitutional Review. In this context, therefore, my attitude and the attitude of the Democratic Left remain unequivocally committed to the need for broader consensus, especially on issues such as the Constitutional Review. Because only if the process is opened now will it be possible for it to be completed by the next government so that it does not lose another five years. The Constitutional Review, of course, is neither panacea nor can in itself lead to overcoming the present deadlocks. But we must finally promote those constitutional reforms that are mature and necessary to modernise the Greek state. In this context, it is necessary to abolish the prerogatives of the political system - unacceptable privileges - and this is a demand for citizens, but also a common place for democratic political forces. I am referring to the revision of Rule 86,'responsibility of Ministers', to abolish the special limitation provisions and to apply the same rules as other citizens and, of course, to Rule 62 on immunity for Members, so that it does not exist automatically even where there are offences under ordinary criminal law. If we want areas, we have to move on to other issues, cut off the umbilical cord with client relations and strandage, we have to establish the incompatibility of the position of party officials in relation to the state, to demobilise the parties, to dismantle the state, to establish the incompatibility of the Minister - a MP, with the aim of decapitulation from client relations, and, indeed, a maximum of ten years, for MPs and Members of Parliament, with the aim of renewing the political staff and in particular three full-fledged terms, which correspond to twelve years and two for MEPs. I think your proposal is only for Members, it is not for MEPs. I don't understand why it doesn't extend. I think it's the same. It could be twelve years for one and ten years for the other full terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u447	Usually the incompatibilities are the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u448	So it could be extended. I say it because I see you and because I notice there was no such extension. If we are also aiming at a modern rule of law, it is time to strengthen the independence of justice and the way in which the Presidents of the supreme judiciary are played, so as to minimise the possibility of intervention by the executive. To institutionalize the role and functioning of the independent authorities. Of course, there is a need - an issue that I see a lot being discussed these days - to stabilise the electoral cycle, instead of a permanent cycle of political uncertainty. This stable, of course, electoral cycle how it will emerge? Firstly, I do not agree with the election of the President of the Republic by the people. I think it can potentially lead to conflict conditions. This proposal with the many votes and a whole six-monthly vote in Parliament I think it is practically inappropriate. This, of course, does not mean that we cannot have a reasoned increase in the powers of the President of the Republic, in which a broad consensus could be found. The issue needs to be addressed with due seriousness. Because the lack of seriousness has also characterised New Democracy, which, if I am not mistaken, has changed its position three times in the House, with a speech by Mr. Mitsotakis, the Chief of Officerial Response, who in one day had changed the position again. In any case, I think we need to find an area of consensus on this matter. There could be a reduction in sixty of the votes required in the House to elect the President of the Republic in the third vote, which - if they do not find a hundred eighty to the third - should go a year later, that is, that there should be those commitments or that we should also go to a electorate, as proposed by many special constitutionalists. Of course, there could also be provision for a 3/5 majority in Parliament for early recourse to polls on a national issue of exceptional importance to make it difficult to abuse this article. In the new Republic, I saw a proposal which says that there is no provision for this procedure at all. I think we are going to the other end, and an increased majority in Parliament could effectively prevent the abuse of this article. Of course, my firm position, as well as the Democratic Left, is the separation of the Church - State. The New Democracy does not understand it and, of course, the proposal must be even more bold than what we have and see today. Of course, Article 3 must be reviewed for a state of religious neutrality - here need more bolder approaches to the issues of prevailing religion - and, of course, Article 16 between the aims of education and the cultivation of religious emotion. As far as the payroll of the clergy is concerned, a matter that comes back to the fore with the debate that has taken place between the government and the Church, here we need to move on to its real abolition by the State. Not to treat clergymen as quasi-public servants - the Church in the Church and the State in the State - at the same time, of course, by regulating property and the fair taxation of church and monastic property. Finally, the issue of separating relations between the Church and State is a progressive reform, necessary for the modernization of the Greek state, which should dynamically be taken over by the progressive forces of the country, to move it forward and to complete it. Of course, we also have human rights. There was a whole debate with conservative, fearful voices opposed, for example, to the revision of Article 5(2) in the direction of guaranteeing freedom, without discrimination of sex, gender identity and sexual orientation beyond nationality, race, language and religious or political beliefs. These logics hurt the free development of personality and personal freedom. Such changes to human rights, as was in the cohabitation pact, the recognition of gender identity, the assumption, this responsible attitude to all human rights, should be held by the progressive forces. Finally, Article 16 must be amended to allow constitutional - take note here - of the establishment of non-governmental, non-profit universities. There is a refusal to see the reality of what is happening and that we must allow non-State universities and, on the other hand, we have the proposal of the New Democracy, which I see speak of individuals, not even with the phrase 'non-profit' in the proposal put forward. I see today the Chief of Officership to make a statement about private, non-profit universities. The 'non-profit' you have not put it, ladies and gentlemen, not even in your proposal, which comes for a constitutional revision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u449	Finish, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u450	I shall conclude, Mr President. What needs to be done, is non-State, non-State, non-profit universities, to get away from the refusal to see the situation as it is today and at the same time, not to go into a reasonable unreserved, unregulated, private universities and in directions which do not lead to a solution, for self-government, with a radical upgrading of responsibilities and financial self-evidence, with provision for its own resources. Finally, the Constitutional Review must remain away from proposals, which may become dangerous, such as referendums on issues of international agreements, popular referendums, and referral back to legislation. If that were the case, the country might not have entered the European Union in 1981, it may have had a referendum in Macedonia or the Religion Act had not passed. We are late, ladies and gentlemen. Do not lose another opportunity today for a brave and shallow constitutional review, for reforms that move in the sphere of self-evidentity, for a modern constitution of a modern country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u451	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Nine Members will still speak tonight, Mr. Triantafylides, Mr. Karaoglou, Mr. Mitafidis, Mr. Karasmanis, Mr. Thraniotis, Mr. Amyras, Mr. Synthrakis, Mr. Igoumenides and Mr. Giulekas. Mr. Triantafylides, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the citizen, who is following us, will wonder why the constitutional review should concern him. How will it be restored, ten years after commemorative cannibalism, its broken relationship with politicians, politicians and parties? Why is it his life, his everyday life, his family, his two main targets after the memorial period, which the Constitution encodes - at least our proposal - that is to say, the deepening of democracy, while at the same time putting back neoliberalism? Answers are not in place. You're stationing and affecting your presence or your absence of goals, goals, power correlations and ultimately interests. Who should the Constitution now serve in the memorial period? But, obviously, the interests of many. The Constitution captures our limits, the limits of our political system and actually says "I am your image, society, and I look like you". And finally, the Constitution is not the cause, but the result of our interventions. Why are we talking about stirring up neoliberalism and austerity, as well as deepening democratic institutions? Inevitably, when the left hand of the state fails, what guarantees benefits and rights is strengthened, the right hand of authoritarianism, the hand which, by invoking the law and order, calls into question rights and freedoms. I would like to make three specific articles, such as Article 86, which is in agreement with us over time. Consensus and compositions are not necessarily a sign here. He is the common constitutional denominator, which says "light everywhere, everything, for everyone". It's a condition of survival of the political and democratic arch, so that we don't experience other situations. It is the abolition of Article 86 of the famous Law on Responsibility of Ministers, which ended up being the article on non-responsibility of Ministers, something, Mr Katrugale, which, in 2001, as a journalist, I recorded on my show, when some of your colleagues such as Mr Stathopoulos said "the multitude of the provision of '86 will actually work in its ineffective operation, to punish politicians who put the finger on honey, to distinguish them from any fact that leaves politics, with honesty and purity". Rule 56(5): The Member is not a profession, and we are therefore putting the three terms of terms as a term of office - some would say two - and to ensure the oxygen of democracy, which is the continuous renewal of this House, which is confusing to the public, and so that it does not become a profession for the Member, who will look to maintain and reproduce his position in the political system and thus be prosperous in dealings and consensuals, who are contrary to his worthy code. Article 24, climate change, water management, renewables, because we are not a closed state. We belong to a Europe and a world which at the moment is codifying the issue, the problem, the issue of global survival, in relation to climate change. Now really, young people are getting up. The new generation in Belgium, in the Netherlands, makes protests and protests because it understands that, when we have less than fifty points in Chicago, the United States of America and plus fifty points in Melbourne, Australia, then something bad is happening, something bad is due to our common home, which is our planet. You will allow me, Mr President, to speak of something else, because this other Greece, Greece of the Greeks abroad, is not represented in the Chamber. We, as SYRIZA, are trying to restore the lost thread, the thread of 2001, the Revision of the Constitution, which predicted by 51.4, but after 15 years in 51.4 and the facilitation of the election right of Greeks outside the territory, was not done. The executive legislature turned its back on what the constitutional legislature had predicted was a good time, just like we are. We provide, not only for the exercise of the electoral right and the election, but also for the election with 54.4, why do we all understand that it would be truly inappropriate to vote by the relative from Chicago, Melbourne, Frankfurt, Rostoff, but to choose MPs from where? From Thessaloniki, Chania, Heraklion and Corfu to represent what? And how much do these MPs know his problems, the daily life of the Greek Parliament? Therefore, in all the rights of the Greeks to be represented and of the electorate and elected, together with Article 108 for the re-establishment and reopening of the Board of Protestant Hellenism. I am presenting in the Minutes my proposal for the reopening of the Greek Protestant Council, which had the goodness of sixty-three colleagues to sign up to the revision of Article 108(2), technical but at the same time substantial, so that the executive legislator, the post-electioner, can act. It is the sixty-three signatures of colleagues, who have basically recorded our concern and concern about Greekism, until we find a way to get together to gather the two-vote votes, which requires the current constitutional legislator of the current Constitution, 51.4, at least to re-establish the Greek Protestant Council or to say it in any other way, because this CSCE is charged with complaints of waste, problems and issues and, possibly, the executive legislator want to say so somewhat differently. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close with this - if I may, Mr President - the model of Italian dispersal, with the establishment of an external region, with the right to speak and to speak on specific issues, these four, five, six Members, one of each of our continents will be very important, because there is also a concern from our fellow citizens, who say that they cannot decide for us, who live in the country, some who do not experience, neither the budget, nor our health, nor our education, reasoned as is done in other countries. To sum up, he said, the Greek Dispersal wishes that her voice be heard genuinely in the national Parliament. He does not want to be involved in current intergroup disputes. The Diaspora, to the extent that I met her as a journalist and as a politician for the four years, which I had the honour of being President at the Special Permanent Committee of the Hellenism of the Dispersion, wants to participate in a tender competition at home. It does not want to be involved in an anti-competitive, harmful situation, both for the family and for the homeland that we all love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. Mr Karaoglou, MP in Thessaloniki, of the New Democracy, has the floor. Thessaloniki has its honour.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u454	Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago I presented a book of mine - the second - entitled 'I swear' and the urgent need for constitutional review, while tabling nineteen targeted proposals for the continuous improvement of the substance and the quality of our democracy. Then, in this book, I had written to the foreword that, in order for there to be a transition to a different and better future, it is indisputable that this option should be accompanied by necessary truths. In my personal view, the first truth is that the renewal of the Charter of our country is the fundamental expression of the general interest. In this light, I think our Constitution must become more stringent in terms of its effectiveness and more open in its direction. In order to achieve this dual objective, we have to rely on two axes: the first is to upgrade our political system. The second is to strengthen the independent institutions and ensure equality of opportunity. So, in short, we are called - and we must - build a true rule of law, effective but at the same time humanity. We are called - and we must - break the vicious circle of lost opportunities. We are called - and we must - confront the causes of the great daily problems and ensure a new perspective for the place, with progress and prosperity for our society. Therefore, the constitutional review must, above all, serve society and the citizen, with all due time, away from and beyond small-party interests, such as those, unfortunately, which instigate the present government. In the 15 years of my parliamentary journey, I have shown that I respect every colleague's right to have his opinion and to disagree with mine. In addition to this disagreement, however, it is our duty to respect the institutions. As the great King Ferraios wrote in his "Thurios": "the law must be the first and only guide in the country to become a leader, because the anarchy looks like slavery". Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is not a merchandise, it is not a game of impression, nor is it an illusion of freedom and choice. On the contrary, it is a leading conquest, which enables us to make decisions, implement them, monitor their implementation and give justice, all directly or representatively to the institutions. But, above all, democracy, ladies and gentlemen, it is hope, because it is constantly evolving. And in democracy, ladies and gentlemen, every human being, every idea, every thought or thought is necessary, it is necessary. Be careful, however, with the Constitution, we are not playing. That is why his review process must be concrete and rigorous, because it is the foundation of the culture, the shield of citizens' rights and the vehicle for the social and economic progress of the place. In New Democracy, we believe that the country needs a constitutional modernisation, which is dictated by the institutional fatigue of old provisions and the need for institutional modernisation of the country, in order to ensure governmental stability and to heal renowned pathogens of post-population. I will stand by two of them: the first concerns the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution for Education. Personally, I am one of those who believe that the review of this article is a sign of political culture, which we must show at the present time. A country's culture, dear colleagues and colleagues, comes from its educational system and the education of its citizens. With the revision of the Constitution, we are given the great opportunity for substantial areas of education in the country. We must therefore proceed with the review of Article 16 and move on to the establishment of non-governmental, non-profit universities. In this way, we will give a second chance to the country's Higher Education System, and the Greek education will be enriched at the same time, new resources will be made available, which are currently coming abroad. And finally, more importantly than that: we will stop uncontrolled fleeing to educational institutions abroad, new Greek students or teachers. The revision of Article 16, ladies and gentlemen, may be one of the greatest investments in human resources for our country. The second proposal is a proposal, which I am tabling this evening for the abolition of the State list for the replacement of Members of Parliament by relatives. The choice of representatives of the people in the Greek Parliament from the cross procedure undoubtedly ensures the popular will. But, a elected representative of the people, through the State list, are two conditions inconsistent with each other. In this context, then, we could consider, in the position of fellow states, ten MPs from the family. In this way, we will prove in practice that we do not forget the unscrupulous Greeks and the unscrupulous Hellenism and, above all, that our constitutionally guaranteed commitments to them are not sacrificed on the altar of micropolitical pursuits. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, because I do not want to abuse the time - I will remind you of the oath we have given during our vow, all of us, as representatives of the Greek people: 'I swear in the name of the Holy and Omousi and Indivisible Trinity to be loyal to the homeland and the democratic Citizenship, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to fulfil my duties conscientiously'. So we need to overthrow the current presumption of guilt surrounding the parties and politicians and rewrite the terms of operation of our state, society, morality and economy. Before I come down from Stepma, Mr President, I would ask - in time - that I make a brief reference, in respect of the hundreds of fellow citizens, with whom we have had a continuous dialogue process and we have finally come up with these proposals on constitutional reform. It is based on two main pillars: the first pillar - I mention only titles - is about upgrading the political system. The first article we are proposing to change is the constitutional guarantee of a reduction in the number of Members, from three hundred to two hundred. The second is the election of all Members of Parliament from small electoral districts and ultimately the one-sided regions. The third proposal is the abolition of the State list and the replacement of MPs by homosexual MPs. I have already referred to this. The fourth concerns the independence of the Members' vote. I shall conclude, Mr President. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The fifth relates to a permanent term of four years of parliamentary term. The sixth relates to the term of office of all members of parliament at all levels. The seventh relates to the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution for Education. The eighth relates to the placement of supra-party permanent Secretarys to key ministries, for example, foreign affairs. The ninth relates to the introduction of a letter vote for the demigrant Greeks. The tenth relates to the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament. The eleventh is about establishing a stable electoral system. And the twelfth relates to the right to vote in the 20th.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u455	Please complete, Mr. Karaoglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u456	I shall conclude, Mr President. The second pillar has seven specific proposals. I mention them in the outlines: The abolition of parliamentary immunity. The abolition of the law on the liability of Ministers. The clear separation of executive and legislative powers, namely the incompatibility of the co-legislator and Minister. The fourth proposal concerns the twenty-five members of the extra-parliamentary government. The fifth proposal concerns committees of inquiry, composed of judges. The sixth relates to the effective control of 'from the outset' and the seventh to the annual control of the parties' finances and the reduction of the electoral expenditure limit. In this way, I will hopefully close the debate on the Constitutional Review to bring us all to an end to the circumstances and not to be another story of lost opportunities, unfortunately. I am, of course, tabling this book entitled 'ORKIZOMA', which contains the conclusion, which we have made, which concerns the proposals for revision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mr. Karaoglu. Now Mr. Mitafidis, MP for the Thessaloniki I of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u458	Ladies and gentlemen, almost stereotypes and monotonous, but also decisively, we are listening, both to the President of the Republic and to the Prime Minister, at their meetings with the leading state actors in Germany, to repeat that our country's claims from World War II, where he suffered the grief of the triple occupation, remain legally active and judicially sought. In order not to be a figure of speech, however, we also need to take a few steps in our own legal and constitutional order. I want to be specific: you know very well that Article 28 of the Constitution concerns our country's international obligations, its relations with the international legal order. As you know, Germany does not suffer the punishment for the crimes committed by the Nazi regime, while according to international conventions, modern Germany, the single market, as you know, is a 'global successor of the Third Reich' to 'the unpaid single', in my view, to use a friendly expression of the former Minister, Nicos Christodoulakis. I would like to say to you that, during the hearings, which we had in the committee on the claim of German debts, which I had the honour of being President, the question of completing Article 28 of the Constitution was raised in paragraph 1 with an interpretative statement, which I shall read to you next. This demand was also made at the last conference on German debts, held in Vianno last September, and there was also a memorandum - I imagine it must have gone to all the parliamentary groups - from the Pan-Hellenic Association of Lawyers to claim German debts, which since 1997 has given the legal battle for the so-called 'private' claims, namely compensation for the victims of the Nazi atrocities and the triple occupation. I would like to tell you that, with the help of our committee's legal committees and inter-ethnicists, we have come up with the following wording, which I shall table in the Minutes of this House. I have also had a relevant debate with the SYRIZA rapporteur, a constitutionalist and approved legal officer, George Karugalos. I believe that I am expressing the pamphlety, and I would say, of the House, of course, of those who are horrific about the sowing of defeated Naziism - I mean the Golden Dawn - that it will have the acceptance of all the wings. In fact, as we hope, the report of the Intergroup parliamentary committee on German debt will finally come to a debate at the end of the month. In Article 28(1) of the current Constitution, adding a second and third subparagraphs, with the following words: ‘The generally accepted rules of international law, as well as the international conventions upon their ratification by law and their entry into force, under the terms of each of them, form an integral part of the domestic Greek law and prevail from any other law. No rule of customary and contractual international law, which is incorporated into the Greek legal order, in accordance with the provisions of the preceding subparagraph, shall have the effect of this Article if it conflicts with a rule of compulsory international law, within the meaning of Article 53(1) of the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties of 23 May 1969. Demonstrated in the preceding subparagraph, the conflict shall be considered to be, in particular, where the application of the rule leads to the annulment of the rights provided for in Articles 2(1), 5(1), (2), 10 and 20(1) of the Constitution. The application of the rules of international law and international conventions to foreign nationals is always subject to reciprocity." I would like to tell you that the Italian Constitutional Court's historic ruling in October 2014 in cases of crimes against humanity, such as those committed by Vermacht, does not apply to the regime of "eterrorism", which enjoys and implements for itself the German state in order to dismiss the responsibilities attributed to it through international conventions. I would also like to remind you that a corresponding provision exists in the Swiss Federal Constitution. It's Article 139(3). Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u459	Thank you. Mr Karasmanis, Member of the New Democracy of the Prefecture of Pella, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there should be any doubt that the revision of the Constitution is a top institutional process and a huge reform section, which should aim to improve the maximum structures and the quality of democracy and the state. Therefore, it requires a substantial debate in a consensual atmosphere. Is this a climate today, after the vote - and the way it was achieved - of the nationally harmful Ambassadors Agreement? Are they advocating for such a climate, the popular feeling and Parliament, with what is unprecedented at this time? In one night's transcripts, dissolution of parties, a picture of measrotragics, which troubles and angers the Greek people. What kind of consensus can there be for the revision of Article 3 concerning the Church, when the government is intoxicating and bringing proposals four months ago, for allegedly arrangements in relations between the State - Church? The Church must be allowed to carry out its mission in an uninterrupted manner. Therefore, no revision of Article 3 is necessary and leave the prophecies in sins of neutrality and allegedly the need to protect religious freedom. This guarantees Article 13, which also guarantees the equal treatment of all religions by the state, as we fully respect it, but without putting history, traditions and the vast majority -95% - of the Greeks, who are Christian Orthodox. The Church is not threatening the State. The State threatens the Church with the preamble announced by the Prime Minister four months ago. It threatens our priests, who honor their shape and mission, who are supportive and charming in the local communities. It is the government who wants to exclude them from the single payment authority to turn them into a kind of private employee and open ten thousand positions with the lure of election recruitment. Only, the Church is not a company. It is the one that in its long history supported the patriotic feeling of the Greeks and helped the nation in difficult circumstances. And today, in the midst of this dramatic economic crisis, she takes the lead in her charitable work, doing the quintusy of Christian faith, which is love and solidarity. The Church does not compete with the State, but complements it in social work, when the state is weak or slick. Come to Pella to see the huge charity that our Metropolis is doing. That is why the New Democracy, which has been emphatically formulated by the party president, is clear. We won't let our priests out of the public eye. And the use of church property will be made, with the sole aim of strengthening the social work. Finally and again, we are vertically opposed to any revision of Article 3, because that is all it does in the work of the Church. Ladies and gentlemen, we have another major issue in Article 16. Of course, we support the full autonomy of public higher education institutions, and they are primarily of interest, but with genuine academic freedom and not as we experience it today, with the immunity of marginal elements, which impunity and on the demand of asylum are perpetuating, abused, destroying, inciting, even against university teachers, by criminal acts. However, our President, Mrs Mitsotakis, has committed himself to this condemnation of the fact that one of the first legislations to be brought by the Government of New Democracy, will be the abolition of this asylum. It is time for private universities to finally operate in our country. When hundreds of thousands of fellow citizens trust us with private education in kindergarten, primary school, high school, on what basis do we deprive them of this right at the university by sending tens of thousands of young children abroad to study at private universities and possibly many of them will always stay there? You know that there is a two-year report from the National Bank, which concludes that our country, in a series of reforms and upgrades, can become an international higher education centre, which will yield many billions over a decade. We are therefore aiming at such brave reforms, and we are insisting unreservedly on the need for changes in Article 16. As, to the end, we will insist on our positions for the absolutely necessary review of Article 24, in order to protect the environment from the consequences of climate change, namely the greatest threat facing our country in the long term, as is the whole planet, and even the survival of humanity itself. They confirm this by reports from dozens of UN councils and conferences, international conferences and it has been serious about the European Union. That is why, as a previous government, with the necessary sensitivity, we have predicted and achieved M17 to 200 million to deal with the consequences of climate change - unfortunately, the current government has abolished it - as well as M8, with the 250 million to protect forests. However, this money also remains and is plunged into the Brussels funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, the definition of forests must be changed in the interpretative declaration and, in line with what is laid down in European regulations. It makes me very surprised that the Ministry of Rural Development did not propose this change. I don't have time to analyze it. As far as Rule 56 is concerned, which you want to introduce the first-ever restriction on the three terms for Members, I have to say that the terms of reference are laid down for every Member of Parliament by the people. This proposal is populist, undemocratic and, above all, unconstitutional. The Constitution and the provisions shall define only the terms of office of the President of the Republic and of the bodies of the executive. Indeed, the issue of the election of the President of the Republic is not without the need to free itself from the dissolution of the House, to have political stability, which is the essential condition of which is investment and economic and social development. So in the face of this historic process of reforming the Constitution, we have to stand up to the circumstances, assume our responsibilities towards society, our traditions, our institutions, with a word in our country. The proposals put forward by the New Democracy are proposals of modern, realistic and adapted to local, European and international circumstances. That is why he invites us to vote in favour of them. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Mr. Karasmani. Mr. Thrafaniotis, SYRIZA MP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u462	Let me endorse Mr Métafidis' proposal to claim German allowances. It's our obligation. At the same time, it will also be a moral justice for the victims of the German occupation. The revision of the Constitution, the changes proposed and we are discussing today, but also in the next few days, are a leading process, aimed at adapting the country's basic law to the new conditions, in order to harmonise it to meet modern needs. This adaptation, in order to be successful and effective, must be based on an essential debate and within society to reflect and incorporate its demands and concerns. That is exactly what happened with the public debate, which was preceded by various proposals and ideas that were important for the population, through bodies and individuals, a process which, unfortunately, was not understood by some who were cut off on democracy. It is important that the proposed review is being attempted after a period of crisis and pertinence of the country, which has actually led to its bankruptcy and has also led the political system itself, which has created it. This is a crisis that has manifested itself with disastrous financial results for the majority of the population, but the causes of which were deeper, a crisis with obvious merits, a crisis of values and above all, with class effects and effects. These very features are aimed at straddling society or simply expanding the inequalities between rich and poor, which today's division, when 82% of wealth belongs to 1% of the population, on a global scale. The main objective of the SYRIZA proposals, through the review process, is to shield and defend the rights of weaker social groups, which are the majority of the population. To guarantee citizens' rights to universal access to the public health system, to the public nature of education, to limit the arbitraryness of the political system, by abolishing Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers, to constitutional safeguards for the protection of the environment and water as a public asset, are a priority. As far as relations between State and Church are concerned, distinct roles are a prerequisite for harmonious coexistence and management of their homes. Both the period of the memorials and the period of "development", which was preceded, have enriched the experience of society, about the weaknesses of our political system and the needs that could not be answered. The main feature is the absence of effective social control in the entire range of political, economic and social functions of the state and the arbitraryness of those exercising political and economic power. At the same time, the participation of our country in the European Union and the transfer of legislative political, economic and institutional powers to supranational bodies create a very important gap in democratic legitimacy in decisions of very distant and opaque centres. We must add to this the problems of global scope, which are dynamically making their presence in our daily lives, such as the refugee crisis, which is not only the threat of climate change and the deregulation caused by it. Throughout the period between the previous Review, social goods experienced an unprecedented attack aimed at controlling and marketing basic human and social needs. The conflict in the previous attempt at constitutional reform, which was not completed, is characteristic of the conflict for private universities. Today, taking into account all the previous period, we must strengthen the protection of social goods, those which, as a society, we have agreed should be of a public and social nature. Pressure for the private control of these goods is an international trend, which has caused huge conflicts throughout the planet and in their overwhelming majority, they have caused poorer societies, downgrading services and, above all, exclusion of large parts of the population from access to these goods. In the face of this international confrontation of policies, we must shield the protection of social goods in our country. Is it not easy or is it not to perceive a world where access to drinking water will be difficult to reach for ever larger populations? And yet, that is a reality, in many areas of the planet. In Greece, for example, we have lived through energy poverty and massive power cuts, especially at the time when the unbearable carpet burdened electricity accounts. Goods, which are essential for survival or social cohesion, must be under public control and access to them must be guaranteed. Accordingly, regions sensitive, such as the sanctuaries and the beaches, the rivers and lakes, as well as the ports, must be accessible to all. In a country such as Greece, which is similar to the sea, which is an essential element of economic and social life, we need to maintain and protect the public character of these regions. Common goods are also archaeological sites, but also ecologically sensitive areas, which are our common heritage, which must be delivered intact to the next generations, to protect it against reasonable economic exploitation. Here too, in the protection of the cultural and natural environment, the role of the state must be strengthened constitutionally. I would like to add another very important element that plays a decisive role in our lives. Internet and information access. We see the behaviour of authoritarian regimes, which in every way try to control information, by imposing bans and unfair controls. On the other hand, modern needs make free and secure access to the Internet and the state must take responsibility to ensure this new right. It is imperative that the development of technology in terms of artificial intelligence and its effects should concern us. Last, although particularly important, it is the introduction of a mere actuarial, the introduction of which creates the conditions for converging, but also for monitoring, which is a basic prerequisite for combating conflict. In combination with the change in the notorious Article 86, the political system is equipped with two powerful weapons to get rid of the eagle of corruption, which has cost us so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr. Thraniotis. Three Members left to speak to complete our meeting. It's Mr. Amyras, Mr. Synthrakis and Mr. Igoumenides. Mr. Amyras, Independent MP in Athens, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs a functioning constitution, open to the world and to developments, and at the same time firm and effective, in order to avoid ambiguity and open windows for arbitrary legislation. The majority's review proposal, unfortunately, proves below the country's circumstances and real needs. I am not only talking about the lightness, which approached the issue of Revision, with the neighbourhood committees, but also about the referendum that has never taken place on the provisions for revision. Indicative of the fact that the government, in essence, proposal for the Review closes the eyes to the need and challenge of the times, is that it has embedded legs across and against private non-profit universities, a choice that almost all countries in the world have adopted, apart from our own. This is a claustrophobic review. The Constitution is not just words. It is the supreme law of the State, according to whose definitions all other legislations must comply. He is the guardian of the culture, rights, institutions and democracy. Unfortunately, however, we have seen the government at the same time as the Constitution at the same time and violated it, which is also confirmed by the decisions of the supreme courts of the country. Let me remind you of the unconstitutionality of the Katrugalo Law on pension cuts and the abolition of gifts, Article 2 of the Pappa Law on TV licenses or the Balta Act on the selection of managers in education. But let me come to Article 16, namely the ban on setting up non-state universities in our country. It does not appear in the majority's review proposals, and here, of course, is that it closes its eyes to reality. Do we have private kindergartens, do we have private kindergartens, do we have private primary schools, do we have private high school schools, do we have private colleges, have private universities affected the government? I would point out that private universities are already operating as colleges, working with foreign universities and offering degrees, which Greece is obliged to recognize. We therefore have the oxymomile: to recognise professional rights and not to recognise their institutions. Why would they leave abroad teachers and new students? Why not allow our country to become a point of attraction to foreign students? I therefore propose that we leave internalisation and turn to successful world practices, which will enhance university education as a whole, increase knowledgelessness, for the benefit of, of course, public universities, society and in particular, young people. I come to Rule 32(4) concerning the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the life of the existing Parliament. This is a proposal for a Review, which is clearly the result of recent history, that is at the end of 2014, of a period of blackening of parliamentaryism, with irresponsible accusations of Members' money, toxicity and extreme polarisation. It was the time when the election of the President of the Republic was used by SYRIZA at the time, for the government to fall, having as a vehicle the president's election. It is therefore a question of stability in political life. Already, we see that the political insecurity and the long-standing pre-election period have a direct impact on the economic environment, with fears and reservations about the country's progress towards openness on all sides. So let us take a step forward towards the future safeguarding of political stability, disconnecting the election of the President of the Republic from the lifetime of the House in question. I would say, of course, that this proposal does not seem to me to be working enough and it is time-consuming, with the six months it provides for. However, I would also like to refer to Rule 24, which does not go far enough in the review proposal. Article 24 concerns the environment and its protection. I cannot understand the non-revision and reinforcement of this article, with the aim of dealing with climate change, the management of water resources and the strengthening of renewable energy sources. Personally, I consider the protection of the environment to be the highest priority of a modern state, which is unfortunately being abused in Greece over and above time. Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers or - if you like - on the non-responsibility of Ministers, as it had become, and as was actually used. I am positive with regard to the abolition of paragraph 3 for Parliament's prosecuting period for ministers and for the suspension of prosecution. To stop the ministers and the MPs, as provided for in Rule 62, from getting away from justice. As for every citizen, the same should apply to the elected people. That is the only way to begin the gradual withdrawal of suspicion - justified, I say - of citizens against politicians. I am also in agreement with the proposals concerning the setting-up of two committees of inquiry per period, at the initiative of a minority of Parliament, namely 2/5. This is Article 68. I am also in agreement with the non-reservation of parliamentary immunity, except for offences directly related to the exercise of parliamentary duties. Article 62. I will vote in favour of the revision of paragraph 2 of Article 5 to guarantee freedom, without discrimination of sex, identity of sex and sexual orientation, beyond nationality, race, language and religious or political beliefs. In other words, this is not a question of freedom of expression and personal freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to point out that the constitutional review will not solve the problems of the country. The Constitution is the legal shield, the legal basis of the country and the institutions of democracy. However, the work to be done, especially by politicians, is in the field of the economy, public administration, society and justice. It is here that the political world should put all its powers in place and prioritise the treatment of small and large corruption, bureaucracy, the delay in the administration of justice, which sometimes reaches the limits of veto, but also the challenges of the future, which are already present and are mainly mentioned in the speed and evolution of the new technologies. The Internet did not go through any Ministerial Council and no government in the world. It was developed by engineers and computer scientists. Politics has recently been seeing that it is usually behind developments and that it attempts, in retrospect, to regulate or intervene in new realities, which it does not understand. Bioethics and biotechnology are also areas that change the individual's position in the complex and globalised economic and social environment, in ways that the citizen does not understand nor can he or she formulate nor at all. Here too, politics comes second. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see a more bold, more invasive, smarter and effective review of our constitution, which frees forces and shields the principle of universal access for citizens to the goods of the common effort, with obligations and rights, as is appropriate for every citizen. Therefore, the next House, the Review, will have a lot of work, as it will be the one that will give concrete direction and content to the provisions that this House proposes. In order to achieve this, therefore, we need consensus, clean mind and responsibility from this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Synthrakis, MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much revisions are made, no matter how much they are baptized as a modernist, democratic, participatory tire - the essence of the urban constitution's mission does not change. Any apparently guaranteed equality and freedom of masses in the urban constitution is interrupted, where the holy and loyal elements of capital begin to be affected, when they feel the threat of popular question. Apart from any communication pre-electional purposes, the constitutional changes that are being promoted operate with the relevant urges of the Greek Industrial Association, as a lever for processes in the political system, as a field of convergences between urban political forces, to form future parliamentary majorities, without threatening government political stability by the popular will for social overthrows. The aim is to constitutionalise the memorandums and not to exempt them, to quickly adapt the urban state to the modern needs of business groups, to shield their profitability and power. It is not by chance that BSE has been encouraged since mid-2017 - not to go back, in 2014 - where it was talking about a constitution that is entrepreneurship-friendly. So SYRIZA makes another issue on behalf of the bourgeoisie and capital in our country. With democratic slogans of progress, deepening democracy and defending social rights, it seeks to acquittal with capitalism, regain the credibility of the political system, which serves the dictatorship of the few in the eyes of the people, as a system which is quickly, redeemable and ethic, as an attempt to rinse the system out of rot, as we recently live in, with the lousy game of parliamentary transfer, the raw interventions of the American embassy and of various - in and out of the country - mechanisms and secret services, to serve the plans of American imperialism, NATO, the European Union, scandals, hatreds, takeover, involvement, with political personnel, which are also essential elements of the functioning of the market economy, competition between monopolies. But let's see what this deepening of democracy is about with this Review. In the current constitution, any recognition of social rights is guaranteed 'as the law defines'. That's what the Constitution says. The Constitution can declare the right to work, to dwelling, to strike, to assemble and more, but in practice none of these rights applies. In the face of permanent and stable work for all, the system nourishes armies of unemployed and prefers fixed-term contracts. Instead of taxing the capital and abolishing its prerogatives, it imposes the ENPIA and other raisins, taxes, fees on people's households and people's houses are seized. Instead of strengthening the primary social assets of education, health, welfare, social security, under the sole responsibility of the State, these are handed over to individuals, turning them into goods. Faced with the full safeguarding of the right to political and trade union action, the right to strike, the labour movement is attempting to "in the plaster", by limiting the right to strike, by suppressing, with the MAT being beaten by retired teachers, young people, protesting against Truman, by enlisting prosecutors against fighters setting up agro-courts and pupils. Against the protection of motherhood, the right to childbirth, the protection of the young girl, the employer disembowels with terrorism in the workplace, dismissing pregnant women, extorting young girls to sign that they will not give birth to them as long as they work. Instead of reducing working hours and protecting workers, intensification is required to reduce capitalists' profits with exhausting hours and hundreds of dead workers. They've been greatly increased over the last few years. Instead of protecting and enlarging social democratic rights and freedoms and guaranteeing legal support before judicial authorities, the system is threatening terrorists, characterizing terrorists who fight for popular rights, who are not even evidenced, simple people wrap up in a glue of paper and are imprisoned, as happened recently with Herianna and Pericles. These are the limits of urban democracy, for which you are all tearing your clothes and which, of course, is becoming more and more reactionary. Proof? The refusal to separate the Church from the State. The Government of SYRIZA, with medium-sized solutions and formalities of the "distinguished roles", justifies its atom on the overtime demand for separation of the State from the Church. The attitude of the New Democracy is the same anachronistic. The separation of the Church from the State is truly mature and has nothing to do with religious faith nor does it affect the people’s clergy, the priests in the performance of their religious duties, with decent wages and labour rights. The opposite is the case with SYRIZA's proposal, not only because of constitutional hug, but also with business embrace, through the fund for the exploitation of church property, legalising claims and integrating into the sacred fund questionable lands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Even for the local administration, SYRIZA's proposals for institutions of direct democracy aim to cover it, a highly reactionary framework, which has been formed in the municipalities and regions, starting with the "KAPITRIA", then with "KALIKRATI", today with "KLATHEN I", tomorrow with "KLATHEN II" and so on. Together, all parties other than the Communist Party, their own mayors and regional rulers, supported, implemented the reactionary framework, which they did, drafted with previous revisions. All together, they have contributed to the illegal retention of old constitutionally guaranteed resources of the local administration, which have been reduced by over 65%. These valuable elbows of the urban state, municipalities and regions, today have evolved into a taxing anti-grass mechanism, on a second tax, support entrepreneurship and rewardability, while their social policy is limited to charities for the most impoverished. Above all, they contributed to the management of popular discontent during the crisis, until the new phase of capitalist revival, on cracked popular incomes and rights. Factors of regions and municipalities, all of the urban spectrum, contributed handy to the development conferences, to the propaganda of the fair development of SYRIZA. The only ones who opposed these policies were the advisors to popular coexistence: the JRC. Against these consensus, they have put forward proposals to satisfy the people's needs and have highlighted the need to change the correlations, the need for a real popular opposition to big capital and political mechanisms. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the JRC proposes a constitutional review of the state's obligation to ensure the necessary resources in the LAGs, through the state budget, the ban on disciplinary penalties, against elected representatives of the local administration and a ban on the control of the appropriateness of the decisions by state bodies. Any disputes, when their legitimacy is called into question, must be resolved by justice itself. There is talk of Article 102 of the Constitution. The JRC, ladies and gentlemen, has no illusion that there can be a progressive, participatory or democratic constitution within the framework of today's power. There can only be when the people decide to be truly sovereign when they own the wealth they produce. And the people have the right to choose the social system they want. It can overthrow the data and impose its will, the questioning and instability of the current rotten capitalist system, which, not only must not be afraid of it, but is also a precondition for getting everything, and above all, to establish a connection and conflict conditions with the rotten capitalist system and overthrow. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by pointing out that, in my opinion, there is no neutral constitution, there is no neutral review nor is there a balance between rich, poor, strong, weak, weak, working, employers and so on. The Constitution expresses the correlation between opposing social forces. At the level of the movement, obviously, the authorities of the ruling class dominate the Constitution. At the level of the movement and the correlation of forces the positions of the fighting social forces are expressed. Both the Constitution and the Review have a class mark and a social print. And this was clearly seen by the debate that we had, where the central rapporteur of the New Democracy, SYRIZA's proposals for direct democracy - whoever wants to see the Minutes was a few hours earlier, his introduction - described them as "SYRIZA's proposals for constitutional intensity". I think that this position also shows exactly the difference in intents and suggestions on the Revision of the Constitution. A lot has been said. Respect for time and colleagues does not allow me to reproduce all the cosmic surnames with which they described SYRIZA's proposals. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that the recent ten-year experience of implementing monumental policies and the course of the economy has shown many times that creditors have demanded, many have imposed, and many conquests of the fighting social forces have been revoked. So, today the first question, which arises, is: Now that we are going to build a country outside the memorials, will we constitutionally shield the attempt to regain work, the attempt to recover the conquests of the movement, which in previous years have collapsed? Will we constitutionally shield the attempt to deepen democracy? Are we going to shield constitutionally the effort to strengthen the social state? These are the questions, under which - if you like - the necessity of constitutional revision also arises. The answer to these questions also shows the direction to be taken by this constitutional revision. Very briefly and concisely, I think that the proposal, made by Mr Mitafidis, on German compensation, should be accepted. He referred to a conference on the subject in my village. I think that, regardless of whether the legal proposals, which have been dealt with, were within the deadline, the relevant issue, should be accepted and confirmed in constitutional terms. Secondly, this balance of the fighting social forces also appears in the relations between the State - Church, where there is the desire of the majority of society for religious neutrality and the deep religious feeling of Orthodoxy, which the majority of society also has in Greece. However, these two can coexist. The Constitution is what will protect from any insult the religious feeling of Greek citizens. The Constitution itself is what will protect and anyone who wants to believe in any other religious doctrine. These two can coexist. And, in my opinion, the proposals which are being made could also be bolder. Thirdly, the election of the President of the Republic, an element of the deepening of democracy. It is clear that the popular verdict between the proposition and the revised parliament is inconceivable. It certainly connects us all, if I judge from the positions, that it should not be the election of the President of the Republic because of the dissolution of the House. However, although the SYRIZA rapporteur has also said, the criteria one is voting on are many. I am addressing my colleagues in the New Democracy. Assuming that he only votes as a criterion, why would he choose the New Democracy? Why should the President of the Republic be elected by a hundred and fifty Members, or why should the President of the Republic be elected by the people? I think that they must take a clear position in this. Last item, the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers. It is obvious that it is a popular requirement to change Article 86 of the Constitution. It is the only safe and solid way to definitively exempt from the provocative law on non-responsibility of Ministers, for the equal treatment of all citizens, regardless of their position or position. However, ladies and gentlemen, the experience of the NOVARTIS case, the recent subject that we have discussed, raises a number of questions which I would like to put today in this debate. Let me remind you, first of all, that the final conclusion of the Special Pre-Assurance Committee on the case of NOVARTIS, in which I was a member, was a conclusion, a decision which we managed to resolve - by the law on the non-responsibility of ministers from Mr Venizelos - the hands of justice. In spite of the fact that you agree to change this article, I would like to state that, in relation to this case, the New Democracy and the PASOK have not seen anything steadfast in the 'NOVARTIS' action. Secondly, in plenary they had voted against the committee's establishment. Thirdly, they have constantly expressed their concern to make oil for their own political representatives. For example, Mr. Mitsotakis said: “Yes, there is a scandal. Our executives are fine. Let's see where the responsibilities are." Mrs. Gennamata said: “Yes, there is a scandal. Our executives are fine. Let's see where the responsibilities are." Fourthly, despite the fact that they voted against the committee's recommendation and all the rest I said, they actually left the committee, supposedly because SYRIZA wanted to cover up the case. Finally - and I am closing with this, Mr President - when all their efforts have fallen on our determination, they have asked for crimes to be declared politically, i.e. to be dropped. Let us keep this up for the debate on the substance of the revision of the article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-12-S1-commons.u470	The sitting is closed for Wednesday, 13 February 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: a continuation of the debate and a decision on the proposals for revision of the Constitution in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament.
