ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, there have been two topical questions in the agenda for today's topical and urgent debate, but they will not be discussed for the following reasons: In particular, the first question under number 251/7-1-2019 of Parliament's first cycle of Kastoria, New Democracy, Maria Antonios, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Examination of student transfer objections", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou, on the grounds of the parallel exercise of parliamentary duties. The first under number 252/7-1-2019 topical question by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-participatory criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience", will not be discussed because the Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Charissis is on a government mission internally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The question tabled by Parliament by the Group of the Democratic Alliance of PASOK - DIMAR - President Fotini (Photi) and Members of Parliament, Mr Fotini, will be discussed at number 9/14-12-2018. Michael Gefloris, George Arvanitides, Ilhan Ahmet, Evangelos Venizelos, Leonidas Gregorakos, Athanasios Theocharopoulos, George - Dimitrios Karras, Vassilios Kegeroglou, Charula (Hara) Kefalidou, Yiannis Koutsoukos, Dimitrios Kremastinos, Odyssea Konstantinopoulos, Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Andreas Lovertopoulos, Ioannis Maniatis, Konstantinos Bariotas, Theodoros Papatheodorou, Konstantinos Scandalidis, Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The lack of agricultural policy and the lack of productive reconstruction have led to the abandonment of the agricultural sector and the Greek countryside". Before giving the floor to the first honourable Member, Mr Jelloney, I would like to inform you of the speaking time of the Members who will speak. Mr. Jellonis will have ten minutes for the protology and five minutes for his denology. Mr. Kegeroglou, Mr. Koutsoukos, Mr. Maniatis and Mr. Konstantopoulos will have five minutes each for the prototype and three for their second. Mr Gregorakos and Mr Ilhan Ahmet will have three minutes each for protology and two for their second. Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Before entering the main theme of our topical question, I could not comment on Mrs Merkel's visit to our country. While he knew that the government of SYRIZA - ANEL is on the run, he nevertheless came to confirm that the Prespecies Agreement will be voted for, ignoring that the majority of the Greek people consider this agreement as a very bad and harmful agreement on the historical, cultural, geopolitical, democratic interests of the country and dangerous for the future of the country and the Balkans. Also, the vast majority of Greeks consider this agreement to be a recognition of a lie. On the other hand, remembering what the Prime Minister said as an opposition and a we will discuss a few issues around the agricultural sector, I will remind him of the proverb that "what the sprout does in the pork finds it in the tomato". Now, with regard to our timely question, for the agricultural sector, for the lack of agricultural policy, for the reconstruction of the agricultural sector and for the abandonment of the Greek countryside, I should like to remind the Minister that for three years, at the beginning of the year, the Democratic Consensus has submitted this timely question, precisely to point out that the primary sector is one of the main sectors of the economy, where the government should pay particular attention. Because the primary sector is the economic sector, which is three-dimensional, developmental, social, national and economic. It helps social cohesion in the Greek region. That is why there should have been an integrated strategy for the agricultural sector on the part of the Government, based on the fourfold perspective of rural development for employment and social cohesion, competitiveness and sustainability. This was necessary to get the country out of the crisis. Today we see what environment Greek farmers are moving. On the one hand, we have uncertain factors created by the open European and global market, with strong reshapings. It is also affected by strong climate change, the economic and financial crisis which thus increases costs and a market that is not effectively regulated, as is the case with a lack of infrastructure. But that's not all. Unfortunately, we also have the endogenous factors from the policies of this government. Greek farmers are now being called upon to face the policies of the SYRIZA - ANEL Convergence, which, as I have pointed out, is not a broader government plan for the productive and development of the country, which makes use of the comparative advantages of the agricultural sector and based clearly on a public perception of development, puts against it all creative and productive, as well as the primary sector. You've closed four years, gentlemen of SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. And if we do an evaluation of your work from 2015 until today, we would say that there is no sector of agricultural production that has been unscathed by your policies. The legends are over for you and you are faced with your choices. The current agricultural crisis is a product of your own four-year-old failed policy. The impact of your policies is now apparent on incomes, on the decline of small and medium-sized farms, on liquidity, on the possibility of continuing production and on the very viability of the units. The agricultural economy is moving from direct aid to the CAP. And these are reduced by taxes. Because Community aid, gentlemen, is not given to be used as an easy fund to cover budgetary deficits, but to produce cheap and quality products and to protect the environment. The aid cannot be considered as easy prey. On the other hand, we have decisions on horizontal reductions in aid, which are taken with incredible ease, to transfer funds to serve micro-political purposes with certain ineffectiveness. We also have cuts in the national reserve, where young farmers are, however, only the front. On the other hand, the huge increase in taxes and insurance contributions together with the high cost of production and the lack of funding from the banks and the complete deregulation of the market has literally depleted agricultural income. With these policies you turn farmers into land workers and try to make them rejoiceful of the chips to live. I would now like to quote a number of painful and anti-agricultural measures that have been taken over the last four years and have caused serious problems for rural households. They are anti-developmental, socially unfair measures, which are based - as I have said before - on a form of totalitarian, tax-suppressive logic. They show in a clear and clear manner the complete revulsion of the government in the primary sector. Taxation of agricultural income, including direct payments, at a rate of 22% to 45%. In addition, the simulation of farms with businesses and as a result an increase in tax advances to 100%. Increase in insurance contributions to more than three times that of the OGA and link them to taxable income. The recent reduction in the rate of taxation is not enough. Insurance contributions must be disconnected from income. In relation to the dismantling of the OGA, farmers have not known when they will be paid for their pension and what pension they will receive. Even the born of 1950, who should have taken retirement early in 2017, we have reached the end of 2018 and of the ten thousand five hundred, the about four thousand are still waiting to be paid for those who had insurance in other insurance funds or abroad. We also have an increase in the price of the agricultural current close to 40%. Furthermore, there is no policy for a number of agricultural products, where unfortunately they have been lost and lost from our country. Your policy on the Greek Sugar Industry has led it recently, ahead of Christmas, to its final closure. There were two factories in operation, and they were the last ones. Instead of seeing a plan and a desire on the part of the Government for what will happen with a strategic, agricultural product for northern Greece, such as sugar beet, we have unfortunately seen with childish manipulations five administrative councils cannot do anything and a definitive closure is given to your decisions in the sugar industry. A huge increase in the excise duty on oil, abolishing its return to farmers. And the payment of what you owed in 2015 was two years late. Unauthorised and unauthorised game with historical rights under the current CFP, which created unnecessarily reason and cause for stress and insecurity for farmers. Forest maps which, instead of protecting the environment, come and remove agricultural land so that we are at risk of losing the extra aid. The draft law, too, demarcating the less-favoured areas even after the corrections, which you have made under pressure from the general outcry, by many producers the compensatory compensation. In relation to the Rural Development Programme you said that by your own decisive intervention it would be working forward. All payments made so far are mainly committed obligations under the 2007-2013 programme and ongoing area payment measures. The improvement plans include sum plans that are the ones that burn farmers. Agricultural advice, a measure which could contribute to the rural development of the place, create new jobs for scientists in the countryside and which is our additional Community obligation with the 2015 CFP remains in the air one year after the adoption of the relevant ministerial decision. The measure to set up producer groups and organisations is also unauthorised. However, we also see great delays in paying compensation from the ELGA as well as in improving the organisation's institutional framework. You established the payment of ELGA compensation with an advance payment of 70%. Why? Since there are reserves in the ELGA. And I ask: To create the surpluses? I would like you to answer how much the reserves that ELGA has. In relation to the improvement of the institutional framework, we have seen that you have recently said that there are going to be proportionate studies. The proportionality studies to improve the institutional framework existed since 2014. What have you done these four years to improve the institutional framework? You voted for L.4386/2016 for agricultural cooperatives, aiming to manipulate the cooperative movement, without predicting what will happen with representation at secondary level. You are now running to gather the uncomplicated because you know very well that there can be no agricultural production without a strong cooperative movement. Finally, the most important, last year, with the lack of control on the market and the Hellenisations the Greek livestock farming has been targeted and led to destruction. Farmers are unprotected by the dairy industries, the prices of sheep and goat milk and meat have collapsed. Nor did you refer the matter to the Competition Committee so that you could keep the prerogatives. Justification for your part by granting de minimis as a relief measure until the checks yield the results, as you suggest, is a confession of abandonment of the industry in harmonised industry practices and in violating any regulation on the production of feta PDO from Greek milk. What did you do with the 42 million de minimis to farmers? You gave EUR 5 for each production animal that is food for this - small animals, ovine and caprine animals - for two days, when the producers sold the ovine and caprine milk two years ago, and today they sell it from 60 to 65 minutes, that is to say, the producers lost from each animal about EUR 30 to 35 per year, and you give them 5 euros and without any consideration of what is going to happen with livestock. I'll finish my dentistry. I would like to say, however, that in fact on an important issue, for a key sector of the economy, such as the primary sector, we see that policies on the part of the government are, unfortunately, the Round Up on agricultural production. You are well below the circumstances to support the Greek farmer and the agricultural production and the Greek region, so that the farmer can live decently from his income in the Greek region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that Greece since 2015, with the sacrifices of the Greek people and the national reconstruction plan, which had been drawn up, could have jumped ahead. Unfortunately, since 2015, he has been trapped in Mr. Tsipras, in his third memorandum, in his lack of will for development initiatives, over-taxation and commitments for the highest surpluses, as well as in the transfer of public property for a hundred years. While Europe gave opportunities for development, we were dealing with Mr Tsipras' ideological policies. Mr Tsipras' policy has not escaped the agricultural sector, which until then had not been included in memorandums. He also entered the third memorandum and so the prospect of growth that had occurred since 2015 with the work that had been done before, since the development of the agricultural sector in 2015, the increase in agricultural income was over 12%. Unfortunately, for 2018 the preparatory figures for EUROSTAT show that we have a fall in agricultural income of 4.8% while the other southern European countries have increased as follows: Italy 5%, Spain 4.4% and France 10.4%. This has led to the lack of agricultural policy and the lack of a productive reconstruction plan and the provoking of constant deadlocks in the agricultural sector. You have increased taxes, levies and, more generally, the burden of the agricultural sector. You have imposed new, inappropriate taxes on farmers, even directly on production. You have increased the cost of production with an increase in energy, electricity, oil and other supplies. You lead farmers to the dangerous and insecure way of 'black' and to the dissolution of producer groups. Don't you hear their calls to take action? You are demanding, on the sole responsibility of the government, olive oil, by a systematic deterioration of the tacosy which, together with other factors, such as an increase in the quantities imported, and even uncontrollably, has led to the price plumbing and the artificial lack of interest in buying olive oil. You are destroying livestock with the absence of controls, thorny Greekisations and the adoption of market defects that Mrs Merkel asked for, which thanks you for all of them, so that the price of milk producer has collapsed, while at the same time consumers pay the same or more at the same time. There are a lot of things that you have done wrong in counterproductive, anti-agricultural directions, but there are a lot of things you should do, and you have licked. I would remind you that in 2015 you received an approved EUR 4.3 billion programme for rural development in our country and did not use it. You have delayed two years in issuing programme drivers, so that actual project implementation does not exceed 15% today, since 33.3% of the data are also included in the mere paid commitments from the previous programme. I mention the data on the implementation of the Rural Development Programme in detail. Measure 1: Knowledge transmission actions, 45,000 euros with 18% absorption. Measure 2, which is very serious, since it concerns the provision of agricultural advice: EUR 100,000, 000, with 0% absorption. Measure 3: Support for producer participation in quality systems, quality certification. Absorbability of 1.9%. Measure 4: Investment in agricultural holdings, processing, land improvement infrastructure, rural road, 1.150.000, with 19% absorption. Measure 5: Rehabilitation of agricultural production potential affected by natural disasters. Absorbability 0%. Measure 6: Young farmers. Development of small farms and investments. Absorbability 61%. Measure 7: Development of broadband infrastructure. Absorbability 51%. Old measure, misdemeanor. Measure 8: Investment in the development of forestry areas. Absorption 5.2%. Measure 9: Establishment of producer groups. An important tool, an institution. Absorbability 0%. Measure 10: Agri-environmental, 387,000. Absorbability 14%. Measure 11: Organic crops. The prospect. Payments only received. Unfortunately 43%, 1/3 is old obligations. Measure 12: Aid under NATURA. Absorbability 0%. Measure 13: Aid to areas affected by natural handicaps. Absorbability 58%. Because they are paid in area payments it is easy to process and payments are made. Measure 14: Animal welfare. A budget of 10 million. He's in dismantling. He's pulling it down - he says - the government. Measure 16: Innovation partnerships. Innovation, perspective. Absorbability 0%. LEADER 15%. Measure 20: Technical assistance. Absorbability 18%. Gentlemen of the government failed. You bring one dead end after another in all areas. Nothing positive anymore can be offered to the country. Citizens call you. Do what you don't hear. The go back you said to Mrs Merkel, the people completed it. Go back, Mrs. Merkel, along with your Chipra!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Gregorakos now has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the period perhaps is the most critical period for reconstructing the Greek economy and there is a need to suspend the prolonged decommissioning of the country's GDP. The rural economy has a twofold role to play in achieving this national self-respect. Think of a country that finds its competitiveness in a number of areas, such as energy, industrial products, real estate, technology and leisure services, but at the same time 7.5 billion euros will be exported, they will leave the production shortage of goods. This will slowly and painfully turn us into a Middle East country where the production of agricultural products will be a national security policy and not a development policy, which must be. The greatest challenge facing the Greek rural reality is the design and monitoring of a national project, based on the European Commission's new reasoning. Everyone who comes from the province is concerned because of the low performance of our country in terms of the current CFP 2014-2020 and the negative developments regarding the Rural Development Programme, where beyond the very low absorption of funds, the dynamic M1 education measures, M2 agricultural consultants, M16 cooperation remain inactive, while their budget is constantly decreasing. I will not dwell on the current situation in the agricultural sector at national level because I do not know the place well. I know, however, that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has consistently implemented a reduction in the capacity of the agricultural sector in Greece over the last four years. And that, Minister, you are aware of the subject, although of course the time you are serving at the Ministry is a little short, you had to put your back on it. I have therefore contributed this question to my colleagues, because the country's agricultural problem is really high, and I would like to ask you specific questions, of course, about the Larcos farmers and all the Greeks. It is well known that you and I are elected in Laconia. You are a farmer, so you are well aware of the agricultural problems of the county and the country, and your answers will be very important to us, to the farmers of our county, but also to all of Greece. First of all, I agree unconditionally that there is a lack of agricultural policy, a lack of a development plan for agricultural production and an abandonment of the agricultural sector in its luck. It is a fact that everyone admits. The agricultural sector is now at a standstill. Not in stagnation, but in rapid regression, especially in the four years of your governance, which has deteriorated dramatically. Our farmers are pessimistic about the future and to speak as a doctor, they are in 'previous depression'. The anti-corruption measures you've taken have no end. The tax and insurance charges are on them. Increases in rates of production, fuel, power, agricultural supplies, etc. They've been destroyed. The cost of production is in the heavenly and the prices of products in the bottom. This also applies, of course, to our compatriots, to the Lacco farmers, but also to all Greeks. A walk to the villages of the Greek province and you will see what is going on. Destroy! No hope. No government provision for these people. Also, if we calculate the age structure of farmers' heads of farms, characterised by an ageing population, then one understands that the situation in most local parts of the region is constantly deteriorating. In addition, small production units, small total production by industry and the frequent lack of modern infrastructure in the primary sector, especially in the mountainous volume, are major barriers to growth. The existing infrastructure is technically outdated. In particular, there are shortcomings in the local network of standardisation, packaging and marketing of agricultural products, while the irrigation network for agricultural products is insufficient, thus creating problems both in the production of products and in the water resources of the region. New projects and infrastructure do not exist. The last ones took place in the 2000s. In particular, for Laconia, a specific dam of Kelefina, we wanted it to be done and we discussed it in 2011-2012, under the Minister of Scandalides, after six to seven years, it remains as it is. So I ask you clearly: what are the small or large infrastructure projects currently being carried out in Laconia, such as irrigation, installation and use of new technologies, the energy self-reliance of rural enterprises? Which companies, cooperatives or producer groups were financially motivated to promote investments in processing or standardisation in order to reduce costs and improve quality, but also to increase the added value of Lakonia's excellent products? SYRIZA, several times in the past, invoked the inadequacy of the institutional framework of the ELGA and that this needs to be improved. What have you done on this for four years now? I give you the answer: Nothing. Confirmation of this is September 2018, last year, that we had a severe quartzing in the wider area of the city of Sparta and in the valley of Laconia, with a hail as a "small egg" for ten to twenty minutes, north, south and in the rural settlements of the city. Everyone agrees that the damage was huge in oranges and olives. Against this, the ELGA today, after four to five months, has not progressed to personalise the damage, but only to a small part of it. What respect, then, is there for the credibility of the organization to our winter compatriots? What have you, as supervising Minister, done on this? Furthermore, as far as compensation is concerned - you know that well, why your office is coming to Sparta - and it is assumed that the amount would be inappropriate, in fact, only public debts and not banks. Result? Our fellow citizens did not receive their money because they were withheld for some loans or other debts they had in the banks. As to the treatment of the floor, my other colleagues will say so too. It has not been done, so this year in the production of olive oil and olive oil the acids are too high. So the quality of the oil in Laconia is too low. I now come to the programme of organic farming. Dear Minister, this is where the Lacones were wronged too much in relation to the rest. For organic farming in Laconia nothing has been credited to them. It was some people who have been struggling for years to put organic farming on, they have done it and they have nothing to show us. I conclude with the farmers in Laconia who sell their milk and meat at desperately low prices. At the same time, there is a shortage of infrastructure. I must also mention the fisheries which you have recently received. Of course, fishing shelters are recorded as 'licensing' at sea by trawlers. In addition to their ecological impact, they are destroying the Laconian bay, but also in all the bays where there is fishing with the trawls. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It's not the time, of course, because I'm abusing Mr. Cremastino's tolerance. I would like to present to you, Minister, some specific proposals that you will take. First of all, I would like to say that agricultural cooperatives must evolve into healthy rural enterprises of a social nature. Secondly, there must be control over the quality and authenticity of products and compulsory application - I end, Mr President, by making my proposals - particularly on exportation, adopted by professional bodies of standardising internal self-control systems. To support and promote certified products, re-check and re-definition of PDO areas. To complete the basic infrastructure, in particular environmental protection infrastructures, as well as the creation of all kinds of cooperation schemes, consortia, networks, contractual agriculture and mergers. To manage the European Union's aid transparent and efficiently. There's transparency everywhere. Furthermore, to promote the emergence of nutritional and cultural value of our products, the exploitation and improvement of research infrastructure and human resources. In conclusion, I would like to say that in these difficult times for the country, we must realise that the Greek people are going through a difficult time. We must invest in the rural economy and livestock. Otherwise, we will have no chance to give breath to a dynamic productive part of the Greek economy and to have hope to get out of the crisis. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-one students and three teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Markopoulou. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Member of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, shall request permission from abroad, namely in England, for the period from 10 January to 11 January 2019 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Ioannis Maniotis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. January 2015-January 2019. Four years SYRIZA - ANEL, four years of a catastrophic policy from which the agricultural sector could not have escaped. Four years of a government and a Prime Minister who have presented the worst examples of political behaviour throughout the entire republic. Obviously, the agricultural sector, the primary sector, could not escape this lack of credibility and irrationality. Extremely punishing policies in insurance and taxation. Taxation for the first time on Community subsidies. Dissolve livestock farming. Bowl with forest maps, with huge uncertainties in paying aid for hundreds of thousands of producers. Abolition of the OGA and reduction of agricultural pensions with the most characteristic example of those born in 1950. There are fourteen thousand producers who have applied to receive a pension. The pension was given to farmers from the OGA within six months. Of the fourteen thousand, after all this time, they've only taken half of them. This is the result of a policy of unreliability and irrationality. Is there an alternative? Yes, there is, and we've testified her. We are bound by the proposal for a law and the signature we have put forward, on how we understand the future of Greek agriculture. We want a reduction in the income tax, where it was before SYRIZANEL, at 13%, indebtedness and duty-free allowances of up to EUR 20,000, the release of insurance contributions from income, a special irresponsible account for farmers, 35% reduced tax and five points VAT refund for producers belonging to cooperatives and producer groups, the introduction of a farm oil card, the exclusion of parcels from the supplementary ENPIA, specific binding proposals for the existence of a smile and optimism in the Greek region. I come to my prefecture, Argolida. It is a typical case of what the Greek region is suffering from an unreasonable policy in the primary sector. I'm starting with the huge work of the Ridiculous. After forty years only the PASOK government 2010-2014 put this project on tracks. We have entrusted and received all the studies, we have guaranteed all the funding, we have announced most of the work. And where are we now? The proclamation and implementation of the project to extend the Analipla to the village of Argolida was delivered to the SYRIZANELs at 70%. It's still just 70 percent. The expansion of the Anaval with guaranteed funding of 8 million to Mycenes - Fichtia - Monastery has not yet been entrusted. The expansion of the Anavalus to Epidaurus was proclaimed, tabled, commissioned by us, still exists, and it should have been completed for a year. The extension of the Ascension to Ermionida with guaranteed funding still not only has not been announced, not only has it not been implemented, not only has it not progressed but has not even been incorporated into measure 4.3.1. Secondly, as far as ELGA's compensation is concerned, you know, Minister, and as a farmer, the huge problem with the tristesa that disappears from the argola. You promised us a few days ago - and I am sure you will keep your word - to compensate the mandarins for the de minimis. You know very well the damage from the torch on the olive. You are well aware of the damage caused by glaciers to vineyards and other crops. An absolute alert of the ELGA is required to provide compensation as soon as possible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also use my dentistry, Mr President. Thirdly, I am going to refer to the bulb of compensation. Seventeen disadvantaged areas of Argola are outside aid, such as the entire Ermionida. The EUR 1.4 million extra income to be paid to the farmers of Argolida will be deducted and I wonder what farmers, farmers, wine growers in the county will do. The Arcadian, Asclepieio, Dimana, the twins, the Eliokastro, Ermioni, Thermisia, Valley, Kranidi, Manlandini, Borsa, Nea Epidaurus, Pyrotika, Schinochori, Trachea, the Fornes, are not unknown names, they are souls of people who live in these villages waiting for the equilibrium. I come to the fourth theme, the future of Greek agriculture, intelligent agriculture. You have announced for two years - not you, your colleague, Mr Pappas - the EUR 31 million programme for expanding intelligent agriculture to 50% of the country's cultivated area for four hundred thousand farmers. You have been proclaiming it for three months, and you have gathered it inexorably, when you were told that once again you are following photographic provisions, in order to entrust them to the various choices you choose, and Greek farmers are still waiting for the applications of intelligent agriculture. In 2014, Minister, - and I really address you and you should understand - we have legislated a serious structural measure to strengthen Greek agriculture, to offset energy, that is, through the use of photovoltaics, to enable farmers to reduce their energy costs by 40%. Since 2014, when we legislated until now, when half of Greece in the agricultural sector should be powered to its irrigation system with photovoltaics, there has been no single application. We've got two local organizations that are better off in Argolida, which are ready and waiting for the final green light from the Ministry. Four hundred and sixteen local bodies of land improvements and three hundred thousand farmers are waiting for the applications of intelligent agriculture. You have a duty to support them. Fifthly, I shall end, ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of everyday life. The daily life of the Greek farmer is the absolute insecurity in his life and property. There is no farmer who has not fallen victim to theft or other illegal activities in a region that feels totally unprotected. And you have as a responsibility for the agricultural sector, in cooperation with the ladies and gentlemen who are responsible for the protection of the citizen, to take the steps to restore the sense of security to Greek farmers. Is there any prospect? Yes, there is one condition, that Mr Tsipras and his Government will decide to give Greek citizens the opportunity to decide with elections here and now to overthrow the worst political austerity and to implement a new progressive change that will bring smile and optimism to Greek farmers as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government welcomed Chancellor Merkel yesterday. It's a reception that rescinds our memory of older times. So you are entitled to one - one of the choices of the PASOK government between 2009 and 2011 with Prime Minister then Mr. George Papandreou and you are coming today on the road that we set up at that time. You also confirm, in the best way, the popular saying: 'My knowledge of having you first', because if you were then on the road of realism, today we would be really out of memoranda, apart from the economic crisis. Let me remind you, Mr President-in-Office, of the Chancellor who has sealed the policy of austerity, which has restored the social state of Europe, a policy that wants to put on record the great achievement of social democracy in Europe, which was the social state, the vision of European leaders, which was sealed with the great personalities, such as Villa Bradk and Andreas Papandreou. Those, ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago, have brought down Chancellor's decisions today what are they doing? They're dining with her. Have they forgotten their objections to a people's Europe and stay in what? In the Europe of numbers. For a social Europe that ensures the well-being of society. They have forgotten the great responsibility for the participation of the IMF in the financial support programmes. They have forgotten about our country's great demand for German allowances. They have forgotten its attitude to the migration and refugee issue with dramatic consequences both in Moria and in Malakasa. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is happening in the context of a fragile economy, which is a non-market economy. In no case shall growth be reflected, which the ministers of the Government and the Members of the Chamber of Deputies are evangelizing. The situation in the primary sector of the economy and the people working in it is dramatic and reveals the ongoing crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no land policy in place to exploit the meticulous lands and address the issue of the fragmented lot. No policy on the age renewal of agricultural resources to provide incentives for young farmers, to act in the agricultural sector, and I would say, using scientific knowledge. No policy to introduce a coordinated standardisation plan for small producers' products - small producers are at the mercy of - but also a common quality point that will add the processing value to agri-food products, these agri-food products which are not at their best today. The same delay in transport and storage infrastructures, the modernisation of which would reduce the cost of raw materials and therefore end products. Extreme state intervention in cooperatives by the resolution of No.4386/16 and manipulation of the substance of cooperative organisations is unprecedented. Intervention everywhere that does not restrict what, in fact, should be what? The bureaucracy. On the other hand, it increases it and does not generally facilitate the operation and operation of producer groups. However, most serious is tax on agricultural income, with a rate of 22% to 45% and a 100% tax advance. The insurance burden of the farmers more than three times that of the OGA and associated with the taxable income. It all reveals that you have forgotten, gentlemen of the government, your election commitments and that there is now no care to strengthen the countryside and social cohesion in it. What is this about? For a collective logic, instead of being oriented into a vision of tax policy, a modern tax system. And that was all? You have imposed a excise duty on wine, neutralizing small and medium-sized producers and creating huge problems for cooperative organisations. You have finally brought an amendment to the effect that this measure should be abolished. But the damage, gentlemen of the government, has been done. Within the summer the farmers received the PPC notes, which informed them to submit data, to continue to have a farm invoice for their drilling and to irrigate their crops at a lower cost. We are talking about an increase in the price of the agricultural current by 40%. The TWGs are in danger of closing due to their debts to PPC. Give the TWGs the opportunity to solve their problem effectively from renewable energy sources directly. At the same time, the oligoria in the transfer of the appropriations, the timely supply of the plant protection products and the recruitment and placement of arable land for collective tactics projects has resulted in the torch destroying all the domestic oil production from the Peloponnese to the Dodecanese, the Istanbul and Crete. The torch, ladies and gentlemen, is not covered by the Statute of the ELGA. Loss of income is huge. Oil producers are really at God’s mercy. What's your concern? Nothin'. However, we expect to see what you are going to do from now on. The competent bodies have put the proposals to you and are waiting. Remind me of GEOTEE's proposal to set up a research body to monitor the plant protection of olives in the regions of Western Greece, Peloponnese and Ionian Islands. GEOTEE specifically proposes the creation of an olive oil institute in Western Greece. Do the thing. It is something that will, in essence, only bring positive results. However, even the producers who are entitled to compensation from the ELGA for disasters in their production from other causes are experiencing great delays. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of political will to strengthen the primary sector is reflected in the collapse of sheep and goat farming, a sector in which our country has comparative advantages. You left the producers unprotected from the dairy industries. You received the price at 1,10 euros and today the price of sheep's milk is down to 0,60 cents and the spice from 0,60 cents to 0,33 cents, while the prices on the shelf are 2 euros a litre. The big price difference from the script on the shelf speaks for itself. No care for farmers who fight with open sales prices, without contracts, at high cost of food and supplies, while confronted with evergreen imports, in front of your inability to proceed to effective controls. You have not managed three years now, to ensure the proper functioning of the market, to safeguard it from the harmonised practices of the dairy industries in the face of this disaster. We oppose our own proposals: Reduction of income tax and reinstatement of 13%. Establish the irresponsible and duty-free subsidies. Disconnection of the insurance contributions from taxable income. Return further five VAT units to producer groups and cooperatives for self-intelligent development, based on a new spatial planning and productive reconstruction with a focus on innovation, quality, sustainability and extroversion. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the borrowings have come to an end. The bet of all of us must be the support of the primary sector, the creation of domestic wealth, this wealth that we will rightly redistribute to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u14	We move on to the next speaker, Mr. Koutsuko. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I believe you are fully aware that you are the longest-lived Memorandum Government in the country, and in addition to the new deadlocks and burdens that you have accumulated with the third Memorandum and the fourth Memorandum, I believe that you have been aware of your term of office here in this Chamber for four years and your term of office lately in the Ministry of Rural Development, that the main expression of these deadlocks and the crisis that you have created in Greek society and the Greek people has found its full mark in the agricultural sector of our country. Look, these four years you have had the opportunity to do two things. One was to make good management and the second, what would express you as the first time left, as you said, which you are no longer, was to do those institutional interventions, to reorganise the agricultural sector, the productive base of the country and to give him advantages to respond to his role as the country's exit from the crisis. You haven't done either. You failed everywhere. In management, if we take one of the areas - colleagues mentioned earlier - you have done them everywhere. Mr Kegeroglu mentioned in detail the rural development programme, whose absorption is too low, and in those measures where absorption is present, it is because of the bridges that exist from the previous programme. The ELGA, which had four billion deficits in 2010 and managed to be an actor with a recompense and reserve of 130 million that we delivered to you, has become paying in instalments, as its reserves are committed. The case of the producers of Elias. The day before, a dose was paid to a part of the tomato producers at 70%. For the rest, they can wait. We delivered you a ready legislation on land policy. Four years you have reached it from here and there, you have recently decided to implement it. It seems that the way you go to apply it hastyly does not result in our farmers on the dried areas of Agulinitsa and Muria being in complete insecurity. You have created huge problems in compensation for disadvantaged areas. You've solved it in part. You taxed production, you taxed wine, you upset an entire industry, it had zero yield, you got it back, but the problems you have created remain. The same has been done for the small producers of beer. With forest maps, you have led to a huge frustration among farmers. There is a loss of subsidies in land that was allocated to farmers as agricultural and not as forests. There's chaos on the market. The lair's growing. Open prices dominate. And, above all, you were unable to manage key sectors of agricultural production. This is a typical example of livestock farming, where, unfortunately, on the basis of data from the National Statistical Office, the value of livestock production from 2.7 billion in 2010 and 2.6 billion in 2014 has fallen to 2.4 billion in 2017. This gives figures to a loss of income in the agricultural sector, due to a fall in the price of milk, to the fact that there are no controls on the market, to the Greek products sold as Greek. What you have a great responsibility, of course, is that for all agricultural production - also based on the data of the National Statistical Office, in 2018 - we had an increase in the price of inputs. I will give you, Minister, to have it in your file - you can read it, you have the scientific capacity and the partners - the latest version of the National Statistical Office, which shows that we have a steady increase in inputs over the years. When the Greek economy had a crisis, which had a fall in GDP, you could not do anything. And the National Statistical Office adds this to the increase in energy prices, lubricants, machinery and so on. I'll put it in the Minutes for you to have it. So, in the livestock sector that is going through a crisis, you have not been able to do anything. A symbolic visit to the Kalavryan union with no effect on what farmers demand. Another area in which you have a key responsibility for what happened...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Kutsuko, will you use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u17	You will allow me, Mr President, to equalise my time and take one more minute to make a small use. Another sector to which your inability had a huge impact was the olive oil sector. The Chamber of Elijah, which I have reported to you in this respect, estimates that only Elijah was the loss of income of 50%. See the answer you gave me in August, on where the homicide program is located. You said that we are now considering the tenders. In August, when the torch had to be intervened much earlier, you were still looking at the tenders. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. It's your ministry's official answer. Did you do something in the infrastructure? It is a characteristic example that we also have approved enhancement works. I am referring to the subordination of the network in Elias. The Ministry tells you that the study, which we had announced by our government since 31-5-2016, is ready and has not progressed at all. Here's this document. You have not included any enhancement in measure 4.3.1. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is also a characteristic example that you have an inability to appoint even an administration to the PEOB - Alfios, where the president is resigned and the problems are growing every day with seizures of the TEO reserves and funds. Consequently, Mr President, and I conclude, there is an integrated proposal to address the problems created by the crisis and also by the policy of overtaxation and increased contributions: it is the proposal of the Change Movement, which in Chapter B and in particular Articles provides for measures to support farmers, producer groups, tax relief, so that we can organise the primary production of our country differently, to motivate farmers, incentives to collective expressions, to tackle all these distortions and to go to a reconstruction of the primary production sector. Finally, I would like to say this: this proposal that we have tabled is an unnegotiable proposal against any political developments. And I say this, because the country has entered a pre-election period, which I think will not be prolonged - the sooner the elections are held, and where we appreciate the people calling for the Change Movement, changing political correlations, playing a decisive role in developments and where our programme proposal in all areas is registered and unnegotiable against all the contenders of power. Thank you, Mr President, for the slightest tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and apprentices and a trainer from the 3rd Primary School of Alimos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ilhan has the floor now. Mr. Ilhan, would you use the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u19	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u20	Along with your dentistry, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if you were to look for a social group today, which would not base your blurred political accounts on today, that would certainly be the farmers and farmers. For four years you have been implementing an insurmountable and anti-agricultural policy without a development compass, without a vision of the reconstruction of the Greek countryside. You are not even taking advantage of the opportunities and opportunities of the common agricultural policy. You are not negotiating on the substance, where decisions are taken on the future of Greek agriculture. Instead, you are confined to a miserable redistribution of poverty, because you are only going on the basis of the next elections, having really neglected the challenges for the future generations of our farmers. For four years we have been trying to unlock the doors of understanding and dialogue with political leadership but nothing. When we draw up proposals from Brussels, for the income of farmers who are declining, such as the tobacco producers of Thrace and no one is involved in the office of political authority, when we receive written replies from the European Parliament on our issues and we receive silence and denial from the Greek Government, then what can the farmer and the farmer of the remote and mountainous regions expect from your Government? Mr Minister, as you are aware, there is the possibility of supporting income for farmers in disadvantaged mountain and semi-urban areas, even when crops, such as tobacco, have been placed outside the framework of aid from the CAP in force. Commissioner for Agriculture of the European Union, Mr Phil Hogan, following a question put to him in the European Parliament, made it clear in writing that the way in which aid from the CFP is distributed for each Member State is the responsibility of the Member State itself. The proposal from the European Commission and the new CAP clearly enables the country - a member to distribute on a number of criteria. Here it is stressed that it needs redistribution to the smaller producers and greater support to the areas where agriculture has a positive impact on the environment, social cohesion and income. At the same time, area aid should be higher in the poorest regions, in order to compensate for the major income disparities recorded at the level of Greek regions and depending on the crop concerned, while the area support is horizontal, without receiving the particularities of the area, while you could like Spain, apply the pyramid model. In addition to this, about seven thousand families in the Rhodope Prefecture are engaged solely in the cultivation of tobacco, as this is a monoculture. Only this year from the Rodopi economy will it be estimated that 20 million euros will be lost from diseases that hit thirty thousand farmers who are engaged in monoculture. So instead of answering these producers' request, what are you doing? Instead of compensation for damages that are reasonable, fair and proportionate, you chose to share from de minimis an amount of EUR 8 million horizontally across Greece, of course. In this way, however, it raises the sense of injustice, because you are seeking to distribute political mercifulness and nothing more and you compensate 100 euros per acre of tobacco producers in Rhodope or 60 euros per acre in other areas, ultimately condemning all of them and their families to absolute poverty, which should be at least EUR 400 for the Rhodope Prefecture. As far as cotton is concerned and a large part of this year's agricultural production in Evros, Rhodope and the region is concerned, it was found in the eye of the cyclone because of the diseases that affected cultivation. It is estimated that the overall reduction in production in Rhodope compared to last year reached 15%, while almost 33% in Evros. And in the area of organic farming, we call for that injustice to be lifted against the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. I'm closing my intervention with the farmers. The Greek state is beating the head in front of the organized interests, which humiliate the state mechanism, farmers and the quality of Europe's production through their unfair practices. We must finally stop as a country shooting at our feet. You started with the unfair distribution of the CAP in 2015, the unequal distribution was followed by the unequal distribution through the technical list of pastures that separated the country from favoured and unjust breeders, depending on the region that is located. You have continued, leaving the processors and processors to the milk and meat products sector to act inconsistently without any effective control, after you have not manned the already deprived inspection services. You have created a tax and insurance system an abortion of anti-developmental and unfair, which, instead of burdening production, punishes it. You charged the cost of production with increases in supplies and energy. Are bureaucracy and lack of funding perpetuate? We all potential poor payers like the entire Greek people. You are committing Community aid by circumventing European practice and not adjusting the misappropriation of accounts to the primary sector's data. So the nipple around our neck is even tightened and pushed by those of us who continue to be still farmers, to abandon our work. It is the cry of desperation and anguish of the farmers in eastern Macedonia and Thrace. They're not my words. You have been sent several times memos. I invite you to hear them once more while you are still a government. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to say that the reconstruction of agricultural production and re-living of the countryside is not a motto. It's a survival condition for the country, it's a political legacy we have to leave to the next generations. We, the Change Movement, are ready to do so in the context of progressive governance, which we want and are envisioned and which we have tabled to you with a draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u22	Mr Arachovitis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start with one comment. Your strategy today cannot be interpreted in any other way, despite the fact that you must have studied the novel "The Clementumon". I don't know if you have this in mind, or you've studied it so deeply. Well, that comes to my mind, though. And I'll explain right away. For us first the primary sector is the founding stone and the front of development and the new productive model, in which the country has come into the memorial era. So what you do not need is short-sighted policies and, unfortunately, in your question all these elements are dominant. It would therefore be useful to see what the situation in the agricultural sector was when this government took responsibility for the governance of the country. So the first thing we received and found as a government was two files - one was financial corrections and the other was allocations - the amount of which was up to 3 billion. The second thing we received was a situation of uncertainty about farmers' payments. There have been outstanding payments that we have found since 2008 yet. The third one we received was a broken cooperative movement. And more than the dissolution of his organisations, which was deeply hurt and was the part of the crisis, it was the cooperative idea that had been lost over at least three decades ago. So it is a great political courage to give up on the practices in the cooperative movement. It is an area that you know deeply about. And I'm sure you know him deeply. A fourth element we received was in the food sector, where we had dispersed competences in various ministries and various organisations. For the first time, the food acquired a clear strategy with the restructuring of the Ministry's organogram by the creation in 2017 of the Directorate-General for Food. The fifth element is that we have received controls throughout the agri-food sector completely dismantled with huge staff shortages, with huge infrastructure shortages. In these years of crisis we have managed to rebuild controls and despite the shortcomings, weaknesses and inability to increase staff who had reached many services marginally, we have recovered and guaranteed very much food safety and hygiene, hence consumer confidence, but also to support the producer's income and reputation. The last thing we received was the loss, following the sale of the Agricultural Bank, of a huge gap in the financing of the primary sector. What, then, did we do in these first four years of our governance? Our first deep incision and intervention was in the tax system, where more than 80% of the rural population declared an income of up to 5 000 euros, and 93% declared up to 9 000 euros. A family, that is, with children with an income of EUR 9 000, which is the majority of farmers, is currently not paying tax. Why? Why we amended Law 4172/2013, where he taxed all incomes from the first euro, all subsidies and all the allowances. And that's not what I'm saying. Mrs. Tyloridou has said. There has been a proposal for an amendment to the New Democracy Members' bill rejected. All this has been submitted on several occasions, at least by me, in the Minutes. So with the tax system that we have introduced, that is, the tax-free limit on wage earners and on agricultural income, with the EUR 12 000 duty-free in the form of grants from the first pillar - basic and linked - and duty-free subsidies for all the second pillar of all the small and medium-sized farmers in the backbone of the rural economy, it does not pay tax and is protected. We must also not forget that we have also introduced a tax credit for young farmers. Young farmers for the first three years pay 50% of taxation. The trade fee that we abolished for cooperative farmers was recently introduced by Article 31 of Law 3986/2011 as a concept for all traders and farmers who until then were professionals, and with Law 4172/2013 it was generalized to all cooperative farmers. We had a recent conversation about this. So who talks about the rural strategy? New cooperatives, all small and medium-sized farms are the beneficiaries of our tax system to date. We have recently brought the protection of Community subsidies in the first pillar. The legislative initiative we have had on this brings protection of subsidies from the whole of the first pillar up to EUR 7,500, while protecting the accounts for up to EUR 1,250 per month. As far as insurance is concerned, you are talking about increasing insurance contributions. What happened before we took over in 2015? We had the Law of Loverdou - Koutrumani, where in July 2010 Law 3863 and Law 3865 interventions were passed. So, there, what is foreseen? Firstly, the basic pension for the farmer was reduced gradually by 2026 when it was completely abolished, and why the OGA was excluded from the regulation of Law 3863. And secondly, he was growing up every three years and increasing the premiums. Why did we get there? We arrived there, because the PSI haircut in the OGA cost more than half a billion to be exactly 550 million. We brought Mr.4387. And what interventions have we managed to do with nr.4387/2016? Firstly, there was no reduction in the OGA pensions, but on the contrary there was a gradual increase in them. Secondly, the farmer now enjoys the same benefits as all the insured. Thirdly, we have also put the farmer's national pension of EUR 384 as a basis plus the reward. We also need to clarify here that the national pension is adjusted, it is linked to a development clause, so the EUR 384 is not a fixed figure, but as long as the economy goes better, it increases. We have therefore introduced national pensions for our farmers as well. The main point of the law, however, is that here there is a proportionality in the contributions of farmers to their incomes as well as to all other citizens, and it does not go on the basis of the age or violent maturation which the two previous laws have brought together much more. So we have as a result 90% of farmers, that is, the entire small and medium-sized farm, to pay at the moment the minimum premium, which is very much below what he would pay, if you make a comparison with the Law of Loverdou - Koutrumani that he referred to. Also, with our recent legislation, the pension contribution is reduced by 33% for the largest incomes, which relate to about 10% of the higher incomes. Let us see, however, what is happening here and with the activation of Rule 20 of the Rules of Procedure, where there is no reduction, no effect on their pensions, but neither on the new pensioners of the OGA who come out after the adoption of the law. Also, for non-professional farmers, there is still no reduction in their pensions up to the amount of agricultural income of EUR 4,900 per year. So we have ensured that they too will continue their agricultural activity without any violent change of regime. We extended the use of a bachelor with Article 13a, our intervention in the law on cooperatives by extending the 13a. Where? To land workers who are irregularly in the country and as you know well - and I am sure you are aware - they are the main labour force on farms. Until then what did we have? We had a phenomenon where irregular residents worked in the fields, they were paid without a return to the insurance agency and at the same time the farmer could not justify his expenses. We have therefore resolved this. Our strategy, however, does not stop here, but we have had a dominant section, the law on cooperatives, Law on cooperatives, Law No.4386 of 2016, where we tried to overthrow the bad texts, which, in particular, Law No.4015, the law that has been characterised by many as a cooperative law and, in my opinion, its most basic incision was that it transformed the cooperatives into anonymous companies, away from the cooperative concept of all seven cooperatives. We introduced the Register of Cooperatives, where there is a separation between active and sustainable cooperatives and the inactive ones, so that a class can finally enter into who is cooperative and what is doing and what the process of growth is being launched in the cooperative movement and the cooperative idea first and foremost. Our aim is for the cell of productive reconstruction to be the cooperatives and cooperatives to strengthen and exploit, not only by institutional arrangements, but also by motivating essentially, as we have been proclaimed so far and how rather we will move from now on. You spoke about the ELGA and its delays in payments. The times that ELGA is currently completing the personalisation of findings and compensation assessment procedures have been reduced on average, in six to eight months, and it was well over twelve months old. We have had years to see losses in the year and this has been happening in recent years. At the same time, we started the process of changing the ELGA regulation, which in its main body has been in 1987. Since then, developments in crops, cultivation techniques, but much more in weather and climate change, are huge. In order to remain public, solidarity and, above all, social justice, the Agency needs a fundamental change, but a change that has been studied. In order to address the problem of liquidity, we have introduced the Farmer's Card with a guarantee of Community subsidies, where liquidity has been given and at the same time, the borrowing rate has become low, less than 5%, and access to the money market has been found. So you spoke about the increase in the price of the agricultural stream. Yes, sir. I'll testify a chart for the Minutes to know what we're talking about. You're saying there's been a power increase. So it seems here in the diagram, over the days of this government, that there is a stability in the electricity price. On the contrary, there is an aggressive increase from 2010 to 2014. I give it to you to study it so that the Greek people can see what the reality is. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Arachovitis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, we have moved on to the establishment and promotion of net metering, but also to the energy communities, where many TEIs and especially in Thessaly have moved on to design energy communities and to exploit the advantages of renewable energy sources in reducing production costs, where irrigation is the main factor. As far as excise duty on wine is concerned, as from 1 January in Article 92 of Law No 4583 which we recently voted on, excise duty on wine has been abolished. Let me remind you, however, - and I mention this here - under what circumstances and as a countermeasure of what things have been introduced, so that we do not forget. You referred to the Greek Sugar Industry. Yes, sir. The Greek Sugar Industry was a sinful industry, where all the phenomena of mismanagement, appointments with privileged contracts, with opaque procedures and a series of sins of the past occurred. We, when we entered into 2015, immediately secured 30 million in order for industry to work and at the same time, continuing all this effort without delay all these years, with a recent law we ensure that workers can be transferred from industry and we thus contribute to the sustainability of sugar. At the same time, however, for customs producers, we have introduced the linked aids to beet so that there is a liquidity there. For excise duty on oil and its abolition, I would remind you that it was voted in the summer of 2015 with L.4336, where you remember from which majority under what conditions it was voted on. So let's go to the CAP payments for 2018, ladies and gentlemen. Since, for all these years, there has been one order of payment and there is one clearing from the past, 2,77 billion has been paid this year, 1st and 2nd pillars - which have been channelled to the Greek market, to the Greek producers. Let me tell you - and if you want I can analyse it to you, but I can also say it in my dentext in detail - from which years we have cleared up and to what extent was each one. I'll see you around, though. We'll have the time. You have spoken about de minimis aid granted in recent years. Minor aid, the so-called de minimis, is given to cover specific problems, which are not covered by the ELGA Regulation or the APA Regulation. We have therefore, in recent years, come to support, to take advantage, not for voting reasons, not for micro-party reasons, not for unjustified, genuinely Greek producers, to the extent that the laws and regulations allow them to find a solution to the problems of small and medium-sized farmers, the inhabitants of mountainous and disadvantaged areas, the islands and the primary sectors. Thus, in 2018, 61,1 million euros were allocated to support both ovine and caprine sheep, countryside, tobacco, Aegean islands affected by epizootic diseases. And we plan to keep going. And in the next few years, by making use of the possibilities that the budget gives us, but also of the regulations, we will support and intervene where there is a need. With regard to the progress of the implementation of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, we have had significant results at this time. It's not just us. They say, they point it out for themselves, like Commissioner for Agriculture, Phil Hogan, who recently came to our country. And we talked a lot about what the programme was like when we received it, what work was done and where it is now being carried out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me some more time, Mr. President. Thank you. And here I would like to tell you that recently there was the monitoring committee of PAA 2014-2020, where his representatives criticised the progress of the implementation of the Programme. And here I will submit to the Minutes Mr Bartovic's speech and his second placement, so that you can see what the Europeans say about the implementation of the ESDP. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Arachovitis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, then, it is briefly to say that the absorption of Community participation has exceeded 40%, while absorption this year is three times higher than in the previous programme period. If we compare the previous three years with our own three years, absorption is three times greater. And if you want a document, I will give you a list again, which is what the country's position is in terms of absorption between the two periods, namely now and the previous period, but also between the other countries of the European Union. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Arachovitis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, we are moving forward to the ESDP programme. Here we have activated 67% of actions, and we have more than 1070 integrated actions. And we continue with new notices. Since last month, and in this period, we have been calling for the third invitation to organic farming of 120 million up to now, and in the next few days, we will have the notice of the Small Agricultural Exploitations Programme of EUR 70 million. So let's go now to our strategy and if there's a strategy or there's no strategy. I will submit to the Minutes - in reply to your main question - the approved national strategy, which has incorporated the individual strategies, to read that on page 19, where we have improved productivity and where the main pillar is agri-food, is analysed on page 21 and 22 and we have full development of our strategic plan, which has been approved by the European Union as well. This comes as a summary of the national agri-food strategy, which has already been submitted since 2017, it has already been discussed in the Committee on Production and Trade and that is what I am presenting to you in the Minutes. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Arachovitis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, what do we have? We have an increase in exports for the year that passed, which by the first nine months, until November, has exceeded EUR 30 billion and is expected until the end of 2018, including in December, to be a historic record of exports, without oil. This says something about our strategy and the efforts that have been made over the years. But let's go see the new CAP which is for the new programming period. But before we go to the news to talk about historical rights. Historical rights, if you remember well, were a 2014 option, where government was not SYRIZA at the time. And the most tragic in this choice was the three rural regions. What does agriculture mean? That historical rights have been placed in three regions, one of the pastures, the other of the trees and the other of the arables.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u25	I'm gonna need two minutes. This is a key point. And you have committed the entire current programming period, within a framework which, unfortunately, cannot change. Where there could be a change - and we'll see you in dentistry - in Pylon II in the PAA have become major interventions. You spoke of disadvantaged. We in the less-favoured until 31/12/2018 had to apply the regulation, n.1307/2013. In the new disadvantaged areas, after the 1980s, the new regulation, by Law 1307/2013, laid down terms, conditions and criteria for the definition of disadvantaged areas and I wonder why you were leaving us, since in 2013 you were the ones who negotiated these conditions. We had to prepare the country until the end of 2018, so that farmers' subsidies would not be compromised in the next programming period and that was what we did responsibly and exhausted all the possibilities that the regulation gave us. Mr President, we will also be talking about the second phase of the milk controls and the measures that we are going to take. But here I want to stand - because there was a lot of talk this year about the olive problem - and in the Minutes a recent letter from GEOTE. It says, therefore, GEOTEE - my colleague, Mr. Mamalis - that the weather conditions, which prevailed during the 2018 growing season, were unusual and influenced the cultivation of olives by creating ideal conditions for the development of insectological insults, mainly toko, fungiology, glossary, olive enemies and a series of others, and making its proposals. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Arachovitis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, in order to know that in 2018 neither the legislation nor the budget nor the people who carried out the project changed in 2017 or from 2016 or from 2015 or 2014. There is one framework, which, in fact, goes back to 1953, with the improvements we have made and last summer still. And now, we are going to change the institutional framework of 1953 and modernise it in modern olive cultivation techniques, modern data from science for tomato and modern climatic data that the country is facing. That's what's gonna happen now. The draft law to amend the legal framework for the torch is already in work. In this case, of course, you are not helping the argument. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I am closing because I have indeed abused, although I will see you in a second year. However, I will close with one last news on the protection of our products. Yesterday, therefore, the Board of Directors of the ELGO was approved to submit a dossier of a protected geographical indication to the Greek yoghurt. The dossier was assigned to the Agricultural University of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u26	Yesterday, after a year of delay and blocking!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u27	We will, of course, talk in the second language about what other initiatives the government is taking and about the staffing of the Ministry, where the latter were recruited at the Ministry, in the course of a decade and we have constantly left staff until then, so that many directorates are actually on the verge of being able to operate. We will also talk about other things of local interest, to which several of your Members have referred. Thank you very much and apologise for overcoming time, but the subject is huge and we have to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. We have the order of the Parliamentary Representatives. But, Mrs. Tylorido, do you want the floor now or later?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I shall now speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u30	Undersecretary, Mrs. Tyloridou, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the agricultural sector of the economy is one of the most important players, if we want to talk about the relaunching of the Greek economy after the end of the memoranda. If we want this effort to be dynamic and have results, it is true that we need to capture reality and that is why the question tabled by the Group of the European People's Party is very important, so that we can say things that are happening and talk about the truth. Colleagues tell us that in 2015, when we took over the government of that country, we were given a ready and complete national strategic planning to the primary sector of the economy. Is that true? I will only say two examples, which I think have shown that there has been no strategic planning for the primary sector, which has a future perspective. The first is what you didn't deliver to us in 2015. You didn't deliver us a financial institution that could be at the side of the farmers. The Agricultural Bank of Greece was destroyed and sold over your days. The second is that you did not hand over a healthy cooperative movement that could be the power of the country's rural world. Instead, today you are talking about so-called 'logues' from our side. So remember in this area what Mr Tsavritaris, Minister for your own governments, said. He said that more than EUR 500 million of loans were made to cooperatives and were never paid back. So if you think with these two features, the lack of the Agricultural Bank and the lack of a strong and sound cooperative movement, that you have handed us a complete plan, you should probably see it again. In your question today - because the Minister and I have said too much - in specific areas - you say features: in the last year, with the lack of controls on the market and Greekisations, the Greek stockfarming with the responsibility of the government is being destroyed. Is that true? Is there a lack of control? So let's see, for example, comparative data with your own time. With regard to specific milk controls for the Greekisations, data from the ELGO DIMITATION: In 2012, fifty-seven audits were carried out in manufacturing enterprises. In 2014 there were a hundred and twenty-four controls - and you will allow me to say - 'for the eyes of the world', because we have received huge files, where fines have not been charged and received. In 2016, there were two hundred sixty-three checks on processing companies, almost twice as high as 2012. In 2018 there were two hundred and twenty-eight checks. So who, when we doubled the checks, can claim we have no controls? And if we accept that, that we do no checks, in relation to what you did, your own checks, how can we characterize them? Corresponding data from the Single Food Control Body. Only for the last half of 2018 and for the mass focus and only for the PDO product feta have three thousand five hundred checks, of which a hundred twenty-seven non-conformities have been found. So we were indulging in lack of controls, and you made them intensive and ran by industry, interests and the market? Let's tell the truth! The fight against Hellenism and, more generally, fraud and fraudulent practices is a primary concern of our own government. It is noted, for example, in the fresh fruit and vegetables sector that the establishment system is applied, which automatically categorises the risk and determines the respective level of control by the competent customs authorities at the point of customs clearance. In addition, let us say that from 2015 onwards, and particularly in the recent period, we have been regularly issuing relevant circulars to intensify controls on consignments of fresh fruit and vegetables at the points of entry of the country, at the hubs of national roads, in packings, in vegetables, in the people's markets and also in exceptional surprise controls, because we really want to hit the phenomena of unbelievable competition with domestic products, phenomena affecting the income of the Greek farmer and delusioning the consumer and eventually at some point at risk and the health of the consumer. At the same time, we have moved our period of government to the Ministry of Rural Development with regard to controls. The transport and placing of the eight regional centres for the protection of quality and health plants, which now go under the supervision of the newly established Quality and Food Safety Agency, which is located in the central agency, so that we have the whole system of control more organised and more systematic. In this way, for the first time, a control mechanism was set up with an additional hundred and fifty employees, with operational arms all over the country and with the possibility of intervention, where this is being used to control them all 24 hours a day. At the same time, the audit procedures are equipped with passenger and service cars, as well as with all the remaining equipment that is necessary. I would also like to say that in the last three years at the level of controls, the Ministry of Rural Development has been in good cooperation with other competent audit authorities, such as the SOCIAP, the IMO, the Public Revenue Research and Assurance Agency, the Economic Police and the FIFG. Insurance and tax controls are carried out in all these companies at the same time. In cooperation with the other departments of the Ministries, this institutional framework gives the ELGO - DIMITRA the power to interconnect with the Artemis system to control the market for all these phenomena. Specifically, I would like to say that especially for milk, we are moving forward and the Ministerial Decision on milk controls is ready with the receipt and delivery cards from the buyer and producer respectively, which will enable cross-checks, but at the same time, we are also increasing the fines for offenders, even to the point, after relapsing the infringement, to have the closure of the operation up to six months. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] As time is not enough, I will try to say more in my dentistry. Such checks shall be carried out on all agricultural and livestock products: milk, meat, etc. I would also like to say that we are planning to cooperate with the Central Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the UNHCR on the entrance gates of the country and the customs authorities so that we can have the immediate announcement of entry of products into our country. In addition, we are amending the statute No 4235, and special reference is made to exceptional checks on transport on roads. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] If I may, Mr President, may I take two minutes from my denology?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u32	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u33	We are tightening the fines for Greekizations and designing pilot applications of satellite services. I think that these can guarantee more effective ways of dealing with these problems. Leaving the subject of controls, for which we can say a great deal and we are at your disposal, to provide you with concrete information from all control bodies about how many controls are carried out, what fines have been imposed and all of this, I would like to say that our Ministry and our own policy is a policy that wants to help the primary sector through the strengthening of cooperative schemes, because we believe that, through the cooperation and synergy of those involved, particularly the people of labor and struggle, the people of the countryside and the Greek region, we can move forward. So we are helping to establish producer organisations and all cooperative schemes, and I think this is very important. Also, as far as food is concerned, I would like to say that we are moving forward with changing the Food and Drinks Code. As far as yoghurt is concerned, we now state that it can only be done from raw milk. This is very important for the Greek sheep and goat farmers and cow farmers. Also, by recognising the decline in farmers' incomes from actual low milk prices, we have given de minimis EUR 42 million. I would also like to say, for the officials of the Ministry and regional and veterinarians, that the unhealthy allowance that you abolished in 2012, we are examining it and it will be one of the first to be awarded. Let me briefly say that, in the fisheries sector, a law, which we have changed since 1966, incorporating almost all of the proposals, the fisherman's responsibilities as a whole, by setting the quality criteria for the permit for amateur fishing, inland fishing and control. I should also like to say, by closing down very briefly, that at the same time, we also attach particular importance to other areas, as mentioned in your question, such as poultry farming. I would like to mention - because I do not have time - that we extend the 'ARTEMIS' system to products such as eggs. At the same time, we are working on the technical implementation of an integrated information system in the veterinary field, so that there is a central database for poultry farming, for the systematic rearing of all production lines. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] At the same time, the three-year programme for the improvement and production and marketing of bee products is being implemented. Specifically, in order to rationalise the nomadic beekeeping, aid of around EUR 22 million has been approved in 2017-2019. So, in conclusion, I think we can say that. We can be proud that, despite the problems, our efforts are an endeavor, because it is an attempt, which is not made behind closed doors, but is made in direct cooperation and consultation with farmers, farmers, farmers and fishermen, because we believe that cooperation with farmers and rural women can, in fact, make the agricultural sector one of the most important - if not the most important - sectors for the relaunch of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. We just heard two speeches without any vision of agricultural production. I hope that farmers will follow the debate on the topical question of the Democratic Integration and see that there is no rural development plan for the next day. It is attempting to resolve procedural issues, without proposals, without consciousness of the problems facing agricultural production, this sector, which can, in fact, be the lever of the reconstruction of the Greek economy. With a surprise, Minister, I read in your recent statement that "the memorial era is built on a productive model that has primary production as the foundation stone". You added, in fact, that 'this is not a form of speech, it is a reality'. Apparently, it's a virtual reality. What exactly a productive model are you talking about? The lack of a productive reconstruction plan has essentially led to the abandonment of the agricultural sector. What is true, that national development plan, which you would draw up after the completion of the thirteenth conferences in the thirteen regions of the country? Where is he? We said then that all this would be forgotten and that it would be a bit of an election. You said 'no'. Where's the development plan? To develop, even in your dentistry, where the plan is. Now, do not say'solution' and all that, which you have referred to, and I shall then say. Is there a structured rural development plan?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u36	I filed it in the Minutes, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u37	You mentioned this to Larissa, where you spoke, among other things, about supporting young farmers and innovative rural enterprises, but also about collective working arrangements to rationalise the functioning of the agricultural market and to protect the consumer. If you mean the plan you have submitted for the previous period and now in the Minutes of this House, it is not a national development plan, on which farmers can rely on the reconstruction of the Greek rural economy. Unfortunately, there is no vision of the country's rural development. I think we all agree that the government in question should also resolve the practical issues. Now, I am dialing from the times of your government. Your Government and the Prime Minister have been mentioned from now on in 2015, that is, since you were in the government: "The rural economy cannot be reconstructed without cheap electricity and oil. We cannot free shipowners and farmers from paying." Has anything changed on them since February 2015? Has any farmer realised that there is a change? As a government in February 2015, you promised ‘a reduction in the price of oil up to the introduction of agricultural oil and a reform of the farmers' insurance and taxation’. The tax system has been reformed in another direction. But let's take it in turn. Instead of cheap oil, farmers saw the price double, conducive to irrigation costs and the total cost of agricultural production. Not only did the excise duty on oil increased, but you abolished it for farmers, while at the same time increasing the price of the agricultural stream. And don't go into comparisons. Now, you know that, in fact, the value of the agricultural current and the previous period has increased in total. But here, Minister, you are to answer what has happened these years, not to oppose the opposition on what had happened from 2010 until 2015. No one told you that the price of the agricultural current had not increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u38	We're answering your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u39	But I say this: during your term of office you have not reduced it. You say that it is less his increase - I have heard you in your speech - and then she was aggressive and so on. This is not a way of dealing with the government's question of counter-population. The issue is what is going on between 2015 and 2019 on specific issues, because farmers understand that, in this matter, in rural current, this policy exists. You continue, of course, until today to say that you will reduce the cost of production. As soon as the day before, you indicated characteristics that ‘in the next quarter, there will be combined measures to reduce the cost of production’. If that is the case, then we also call on you to implement the support measures for farmers and agricultural production contained in the comprehensive proposal tabled by the Change Movement for the country's economic and social recovery. And on this point, you are well aware that we are firmly proposing the introduction of a farm oil card which could, in fact, in a fair way, provide agricultural oil. This will provide practical support for agricultural production, exports and boost the competitiveness of our products. We tabled, immediately in 2016, the amendment to the Agricultural Oil Card. You refused to discuss it. We submitted it to many bills in 2016 and 2017. You didn't tell your government that you didn't have to. You said 'we'd try', but you didn't. Why am I talking about the farm oil card? Because what you are saying as an argument is that the 2015 memorandum on oil and so on was passed. But that's not what we're telling you. We tell you, then, to introduce a farm oil card, as is the case in other countries, such as Germany and elsewhere, and it is, of course, within those which are happening in the European Union. You refused and deny what would make it very easier for producers for two to three years. We called on you, if you have a problem with the partners, to negotiate effectively on this. Why haven't you negotiated? If you have, why has anyone not said so, Mr Chakalotos or the Minister for Rural Development? Now we're going to the insurance contributions. You have proceeded to triple the insurance contributions and to the abolition of the OGA, of course. Here too, our proposal is clear. Insurance contributions for farmers from taxable income should be disconnected and obviously reduced by establishing a higher threshold. Actually, what's the reality? The direct linkage of insurance contributions to income today favours those who evade taxes and the contributions for those who do not illegally are really disastrous. As far as the OGA is concerned, we have proposed that you keep three funds and not that the situation remain as it stands. You've moved on to abolish it. You have created a mammoth fund, which does not work for any accusation, and of course neither for farmers. You're talking about adjusting the debts, but we still haven't seen anything that, among other things, will make retirement easier. You have reduced direct payments and tax on agricultural incomes with rates ranging from 22% to 45%, rates which do not apply in any other European country and with the assimilation of farms with businesses, the advance tax paid amounted to 100%. There will be no substantial improvement unless 13%, for example, is introduced as a uniform rate of profit tax and if the CFP's duty-free payment is not introduced, as well as all kinds of agricultural compensation. Because, of course, the amendment you brought before Christmas does not solve the problem definitively, as it concerns only direct payments, and even EUR 7 500. Of course, and there must be no possibility of retaining European aid for national purposes. That was the answer that he had given us before, in 2013, the then Commissioner for Rural Development, Mr Chiololos, in relation to this particular issue. In fact, when Mr Mitsotakis had presided over the presidency, the New Democracy had said - and I had told you, Minister, in the previous debate - that there should be a genuine equivalent of the obligations which exist in each farmer in relation to the aid. It can't be done. European aid is coming for the issue of competitiveness. Therefore, they cannot be held properly for national reasons. In this context, therefore, we want further strengthening of the negotiation with regard to the amendment which you have brought, which was reasonable, but which does not solve the problem definitively. That is why I say that this has to be fully understood, that you also have a new response from the European Commission, as Mr Tsiolos has done then, so that national legislation can also be strengthened. We have repeatedly put you in the need to establish a special irresponsible account for farmers. It didn't work. On this issue too, as on the agricultural oil card, you have sometimes told us that it is a question of partners, of negotiation. Have you and Mr Tsakalotos negotiated with the European Union and denied these issues? You haven't given an answer. And if, as they say now, as you said, we're out of memorial reality, why don't you move on to all of this? Why don't you move on to the farm oil card and the special irresponsible account of farmers? VAT on agricultural supplies is another important issue. It was raised from 13% to 23% and 24% from your Government, you reduced it to 13% and you present it as a success of your government, your agricultural policy, when the average European is 8% and 9%. This is where a brave reduction is needed. As for collective labour schemes, you have passed the law on agricultural cooperatives with incomprehensible interventions in the statutes, which do not reduce bureaucracy and facilitate the creation and operation of cooperatives and producer groups. The Change Movement proposes giving concrete incentives to support farmers who participate in the cooperatives and producer groups, which are analysed in the overall proposal for a law that we have tabled in Parliament. Of course, the liquidity from the banks to farmers remains unexistent. It's a serious problem, it's the main problem. What are you going to do about it? This is where we need answers. This means that the problem of their loans is also growing. As far as ELGA is concerned, we have asked you several, dozens of questions. The delays in the assessment of losses and the payment of compensation shall continue. Are there also cash assets? Can you let us know? Also, can you tell us what exactly you are trying to do now in ELGA, because almost four years has not changed anything and agricultural policy has been constantly going on? I am referring to the whole policy of the government. I am not talking about you - you have some time - but I am referring to the whole policy. Unfortunately, these are the oil, electricity, taxation, insurance contributions, cooperatives, liquidity and compensation for farmers. Rural production is also sacrificed on the altar of primary surpluses, i.e. to achieve excessive primary surpluses to share a minimum amount thereafter. It is a misguided policy and, in order to achieve this, you are also applying overtax in the agricultural sector, because if there is no overall reconstruction plan, agricultural production does not have a special system of taxation. The same happens with Greek livestock farming. Today the sheep and goat sector, where the country has comparative advantages for its development, is in a very difficult situation. There are open sales prices, without contracts, air imports, without control, uncertainties to the producer for the next day. On the other hand, farmers are called upon to deal with high taxation, excessive insurance contributions, high lending, animal feed prices, fuel and any kind of supply. The setting-up of sixty days as the margin for the producer's payment in practice - I told you last time, and that is why you have to take over the government - is proof of a letter of content. All the livestock farmers tell us. Not even one pretext for referring the question of the harmonised practices of the dairy industries to the Competition Committee nor even for carrying out the checks on illegal Greekisations announced. On the contrary, the controls on meat were abolished. Use as a pill the de minimis. But that is not the way to solve all the problems. I would also like to raise a few critical points: what attitude have you taken to the attitude of renationalising the common agricultural policy, from which the country and the rural world are at risk by reducing aid? You have already accepted the 17% reduction in the CAP resources for our country, which is translated into a loss of 3.3 billion euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will take two minutes from my second. Because I am talking about aid, before you said about the negotiations in previous years, in 2013 and in 2014. You know that with the negotiations then we secured 19 billion euros, Pillar I and Pillar II, and I mean by these 2013 negotiations. You then accused the amount is reduced - the EUR 19 billion - and now you say that this is the money that Greece has and the money we can make available. You are effectively overcoming this EUR 19 billion many times during your government and even having reduced the possibility of new resources in the coming years by your own negotiation. Also, why does the Rural Development Programme not move forward at a faster rate and where there are bureaucratic weaknesses to solve them? The absorption of resources is low, reaches 33%. What about the agricultural consultants, which is a serious matter? This is a measure that results in our country's obligation from the 2015 CFP and is financed by Europe. It has been emptied, and could support the modernisation of agricultural production. It is a serious issue for the restructuring of crops and for the reconstruction of agricultural production. Once we have European money, we can have agricultural advisers. Unemployment could also be reduced with this issue. In addition, for the farmer to have his counselor, however, the Greek Government is not using it at the moment. What incentives are given to young farmers? Is it, or is it not, the aim of renewing the rural population? What incentives are provided for rural activity? What about digital agriculture? Ladies and gentlemen, we note all this because we are listening to the concerns of farmers and farmers and because we all agree that agricultural production can be a key pillar of development for the country's economy and exit from the prolonged crisis. That is why we have sometimes tabled very specific proposals, but in ears of not listening. Just to answer critical questions concerning the present and future of the rural world. For our part, we have drawn up an integrated plan for the recovery of agriculture and livestock in our country, so that it can respond to modern challenges and the rural world can live with dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Panayota Brandza has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that any debate on the primary sector, on any occasion, can be useful. Of course, reading the text of your question and unfortunately listening to most - almost all, with few exceptions - speakers on your list, I am sure of my initial impression. The question was asked about the provocation of impressions, and unfortunately there is also a completely small-party opposition tactic. In your question, you include everything. You say that it is all tragic and that all these tragic events have happened in the country's governance over the last four years, namely the country's governance by the SYRIZA party. Obviously there is no intelligent man in this country, who has the least willingness to be objective, who believes that this argument remains. This is very far from common sense, which is very far from both PASOK and Mr Theocharopoulos. In any case, Mr Theoharopoulos and Mr KINAL's colleagues - because it is PASOK and you here today - who have basic knowledge of the issues of the primary sector in this country or even without any knowledge at all, if they look at the fundamental sizes of agricultural production and their evolution, it will see that the beginning of the 1980s has begun and unfortunately continues to date. The question of whether we were able to reverse this disastrous course of PASOK - and of the New Democracy - is, of course, the answer is: not yet. But we'll make it. I will tell you what we have done so far and what results our own policies have had for farmers in the country. Obviously, I cannot talk about what has happened and what has been done and done so many years in six minutes. I will try to talk about what I consider to be the most important, tax and insurance. It really needs courage to claim that in the bankrupt by PASOK and New Democracy Greece the taxes and social security contributions of farmers are high. There has been a dissatisfaction - rightly in my opinion - in favour of farmers, both in taxation and in insurance. Farmers are the only professional group in our country that has guaranteed duty. The majority of agricultural subsidies, which account for 50% of their income, are also tax-free. Similarly, the insurance contributions for farmers are slightly lower than the lower for the vast majority of farmers. I won't say numbers. Someone can easily look for them and see them. I urge you to speak with the real, professional farmers, and if you avoid the well-known predicted farmers who only make politics, then I am sure you will be amazed at their answers. With regard to the ELGA payments, and here it takes courage to claim that the flow of the ELGA compensation payments is not the best of all times. I would refer you back to the organization's elements, but also to the farmers themselves. I will agree that the ELGA regulation needs revision, it needs modernisation, it needs improvement, and we did not have time to do it, because we had to collect the payments that had been delaying up to four years and it is no accidental number. Common agricultural policy and historical rights. When you are talking about playing with historical rights, you are causing the public a sense of law. I will not go into the abundance seasons, when - a joke that is common among farmers - farmers tied the dogs with sausages and when the national agricultural drink was the old whiskey. I will go to 2014, on the "excellent" Samara-Venizelos coexistence. It was at that time when the national proposal for the current CAP was tabled. Until the last minute, the Minister, Mr Tsavrates, discussed the abolition of historical rights. At the last minute Mr Karasmanis was called upon to maintain injustice, to close the agricultural profession, to reward the sofa farmers, the farmers who do not produce and to punish those who produce them. Bad languages want your own predicted rural father to dictate this disgrace, which you called a "national proposal" and which we have been using since 2014. I would personally like our own government to abolish historical rights. It wasn't easy in those two years. We could have tried. I feel accountable to the healthy productive forces of the place we haven't done it yet. But the only thing you are interested in is that your protected farmers do not lose their privileges. Programme for Rural Development. I'm surprised. You have executives at the PSC, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, and in the management. They should inform you that the course of the rural development programme of the current period is also the best of all the previous ones. I will accept that you are not aware of this and I invite you to refer to the services and the Secretary-General himself who will inform you of each measure separately. But what you know - I am sure you are aware of this - is the path to the implementation of the PAA, the Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013. You will remember that the vast majority of payments of that period were made in 2015, when SYRIZA took over the rule of the country, and we continue. Obviously you need to know - and all the farmers know - that we have cleared loose ends for a decade and that, at last, farmers may also plan their financial management and their lives. Again, I will be honest and say that I, too, believe that the AAS could be more productive, but with your question and with the measures you are referring to, you have shown that this is not your concern. What you are interested in is defending the interests, the well-known interests of the ‘mothers’ for which you are being cut. With regard to the law on agricultural cooperatives, Law No.4386/2016, here we probably have the joke of the day: we are told by PASOK that SYRIZA passed a law on the manipulation of agricultural cooperatives. You obviously haven’t taken the hampari that the cooperative movement has been destroyed over your days, broken up and even wanted something to manipulate, you haven’t left anything. Those who remember the debate on N.4386/2016, I personally disagreed in many respects with the law, precisely because it reminded me very much of N.4015/2011, your law, and I think that improvements are needed. As far as the property of cooperatives is concerned, you have a huge responsibility here. The property is being misused and destroyed because of the bankrupt schemes you left us, but also because of the sale of the Agricultural Bank. We really are over-treating, so we can make use of it. You forsake us for the forest maps. You and New Democracy should be ashamed of yourself. In 2019, in the 20th century, Greece is the only European Union country that has no Register, no Forest, no Inclusive. As far as disadvantages are concerned, you obviously do not understand what is meant by disadvantaged areas and why the European Union is subsidising the areas defined as disadvantaged. It is not a question of which team and what farmers will get money. The question is the cost of production. And here all you have to say is for agricultural oil. Obviously you have done nothing about infrastructures that could reduce production costs. Improvement agencies - and TEIs and GEIs - have made them tanks of votes and non-transparency and fraud centres. We're talking about net metering. And we're trying. We are trying to set up and create infrastructure to reduce the energy cost of production, which is the highest cost of production for the farmer. As far as the Greeks are concerned, it is a problem of time and it is also very intense today. That's what I'm going to agree with. Of course, as you say again, you do not even understand your responsibilities. Because you have responsibilities too. We voted for No 4492/2017 for fresh and vulnerable. We are also preparing - and the Minister and the State Secretary said - the joint ministerial decision, which is stricter and shielding the institutional framework. Obviously that is not enough and we must continue, because the price for the producer, particularly for animal products, is very low. And we'll keep going. Here is the Minister and the supervised organisations, who must act even more forcefully. Ladies and gentlemen, you have tabled a topical question with the sole aim of making an impression. You didn't even bother to see what the current government did. And of course, once again, you do not make self-criticism and you do not see yours, your country's rule over your days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u42	Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u43	I shall end in ten seconds, Mr President. You have made a completely superficial approach to all issues, without being able to identify the appropriate points for opposition. Because there may also be points that you can make opposition. Unfortunately, this is because you have nothing to do with the country's productive tissue. Also, unfortunately, history ranks you among those who are not entitled to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. My colleague, Mrs Fotini Arabaji, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder what first of all to remember about the life and state of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for the agricultural sector! The tax and insurance raid? And you had the courage to say? - to come and say that under your own laws 80% of farmers don't pay taxes? You say half the truth, Minister, because firstly, you shrinked the income. I'm not saying it. That's what EUROSTAT says. So the income, the pie, that is, the income tax. And secondly, the black market, known as 'black dorms' was escalated. Do you know that, Minister? The insurance raid? Take a walk to the villages, Minister, and see what they paid for the fifth category of our OGA and what farmers are paying today with your policies. The tax for the first time on agricultural subsidies with your own government? And stop, Minister, lying and inaccurate. I challenge you: Bring me a tax statement proving that we have taxed agricultural subsidies. You can't bring me one. The depletion of production costs with the koruna, of course, of the total abolition of the refund of excise duty on agricultural oil? Yes, Minister. You know, these 130 to 160 million, which I was shaving out of your government for August 2015, as you said. Yes, then, Minister, the predecessor told you, under the terms of the countermeasures he would bring. Or the development brake - I will not stop, I will not get tired of saying it - which you have taken into the valuable Community funds of EUR 6 billion of the Rural Development Programme, which has ensured you with genuine negotiation and a great deal of trouble by the former Government of New Democracy? And you can manage and you're coming here and you're making suggestions to learn, he says, the absorbances. Well, the truth is that the uptakes you present are committed in 2007-2013, which you 'frozen' in the first semester that Mr Varoufakis ruled and had stopped everything. They are premium payments with a height of balancing compensation. Easy payments, 950 million, which you had to share by the end of the programming period. And ye, to show absorbances, have given them in vain. In fact, you also had to commit 314 million from the national budget to have money by the end of 2020. After all, you will not doubt that in October 2016 Commissioner Hogan - and I put it in the Minutes - took your ear, Minister, to finally start absorbing the Rural Development Programme. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What should I first remember? Aalum in the management of what you are calling for, for example, organic farming? It seems that your fiasco has not brought you together, and now in your third notice - until 31 December, you exclude dynamic crops with an export mark, such as trees, organic tobacco - despite the great demand it has on the markets of the United States - and aromatic plants and vegetables, the tragic zero utilization of the Yunker package for the agri-food sector. So what? A good deal of credit for farmers, the premium for farmers with a guarantee of the rural development programme. Indeed, it rains money in the European Union, Minister, and you, like your predecessor, of course, continue to hold an umbrella. I am tabling for the Minutes: Spain EUR 610 million from the Juncker package, Romania EUR 150 million from the Juncker package, Estonia EUR 112 million. And poor Estonia has worn our glasses. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Remember what? Your monumental negotiative absence in the management of the effects of climate change, leaving millions of dynamic cultivated areas, such as cereals that have been destroyed in the summer of 2017? Or this year's Evros' cotton will be destroyed, while your counterparts - I recall what the Cypriot Minister has done - claim and take advantage of their countries? The genogram of the new map of disadvantaged areas, which you came to us and told us when it was our responsibility, did we vote for it? Minister, let's tell Serres Lawyer on the September genogram you have ruled out eighty communities and in fear of all this unrest that you have created, you have finally set up a new map and you have just excluded fourteen. What's changed? You have had to send him since 2014, and you are the last country to send it to the Commission. Mr President, I will only need two minutes, perhaps three, because everyone has spoken a lot more. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u46	You've got it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u47	Remember what, Minister? The pay stop at the ELGA? You came here and proudly said: 'Very quickly the project is being completed'. Really? I know the producers have two years to pay for their compensation. And how does it end, after you have stopped, did you cut off the streets of the valuers who - I am passing away - do not charge the state budget, since the ELGA account is a reward? At the moment, of course - two meters and two weights - which the government gave you 2 billion in party recruitment in public. But the ELGA was urging you. As much as Mr Kurebes said the other day at Tirnavo - for this modernisation of the ELGA insurance framework, which you are building it all day long and at night is demolished, do that proportionate study of the acarpia that we delivered to you in 2014 and then leave the ten reasons behind. Now for the outrageous unauthorized rural pension post what can I say? Since November 26, I have been in vain expectation of Mrs Ahtsioglou to answer for the thirteen thousand pension beneficiaries since 2018, since 2017, and even since 2016, Ministers. You know, those who in the bad New Democracy government - rain, snow - 31 July of each year who completed the pension year, the next day they had the pension in their hands. Of course, you are also the government's slaughterer of Greek stockfarming and, in particular, of ovine and caprine animals: the distorted routine management of compensatory compensation, a few in many, your economic policies, the party of Greekization and the non-existent controls. And you're here to tell us that you're doing checks? The press release of the new ELGO board in July 2018, the one you caratized for losing the feta program, have you read it? It says how many processing companies did not give a milk balance for eighteen months. Eighteen whole months! And you dare come here and settle for the checks? You are the perpetrators of the collapse of the industry, of the price drop and go and share de minimis crumbs, of course the Greek taxpayer's money, thinking that with aspirins you will save from the deep crisis. And as if not all of this were enough, there are also some reports that talk about voluntary departures of farmers with a premium of EUR 300 per animal. It would be a disastrous scenario, if it were, because it would lead to the disappearance of a sector in which we have a comparative advantage. We are the only country to export feta to the European Union. And because, Minister, it is the desperation of farmers who say 'whether we sell our livelihood for 300 euros!', I want you to deny this. I've seen Mrs. Tylorid's answer, much later, of course, from the post. I officially want you to deny that there is such a scenario.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u48	Finish it, please. We're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u49	I shall conclude, Mr President. There are too many of the things we need to say. I'll have a word about the Greek sugar industry. I saw that you came here and defended the act of law-making of the 30 million euros that was money that fell into the bottomless dirt. I need you to tell me one word. Do you know that according to Eurostat data you received from the 'bad' New Democracy, with eighty thousand acres throughout Greece, and in 2018 you handed it over ten thousand acres? In conclusion, Mr President, and I thank you again for your tolerance, I cannot refer to the critical momentum of the new CFP, Minister. What you, as a government, faced with low flights, not to say negotiable and undeniably zero preparation. For a year and a half we have been calling on you as a opposition to negotiate, to take a position on the majors at stake. Firstly, to reduce the agricultural budget, secondly, the increasing pressures of the Visegrad countries, which want an absolute area-wide equation of structural aid, and thirdly, of course, the enormous difficulties of the new management model of the new CAP, which, Minister, will impose the prior approval of the national strategic plan from each country, so that farmers can now take the first-pillar payments, which, until now, are simply supplementing the OSE declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u50	You're done, my colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u51	I'm closed, Mr. President. And you went to 'EURACTIV', Minister, and said that 'we have no preparation'. Congratulations, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u52	We have to finish, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u53	It's very important. Do you dare, Minister, to tell the farmers that with your revolts on the question of dealing with the pressures of the Visegrad countries, in the best scenario that is now on the table, will the subsidies be reduced by EUR 30 per acre, of the 54 euros provided by the former Government of New Democracy? Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-one students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Elementary School of Carlas Stefanovico Magnesia and from the 2nd Elementary School of Ferra Velestino. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Christos Pappas has the floor. You have the floor, comfortably, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u55	The representative of the German economic oligarchy, Mrs Merkel, is pleased, as she diagnosed that the poor political establishment, the Greek system, has set the path of treason with more than a hundred and fifty a young person. Now we are waiting for the new blockade of our Mediterranean road headquarters by the "praturians" of M.A.T. and EL.AS, as well as the next anti-constitutional ban on the concentration of Greek nationalists, the only force opposed to the visit by Merkel. The Chancellor of Germany spoke about a historic unfinishedness that takes place at the end, that the infamous treasonal agreement of the Prespecies with the term "North Macedonia" is a beneficial agreement, and the road opens for the admission and integration of the state into N.A.T.O. And in the European Union, attributes that this is a good deal for Greece. What are you saying, Mrs. Merkel? He has also authorized Mr Mitsotakis, saying that there is nothing to do with the agreement, namely the name, the economic reforms, and I mean the non-cutting of pensions. He said there are of course different opinions, but he won't get involved in the Greek things. He's here to get involved and enthusiastically tells us he won't get involved. Of course, this attitude by Mrs Merkel will affect Mr Mitsotakis, but it will not affect him in the direction of voting against the treacherous agreement, because the willing ones have been found. Mr Mitsotakis has just said this to the German loan sharks: he will not cancel the Prespecies Agreement. The only political force - which we have to say - is the only political leader who pledged to cancel the agreement and to throw it into the bell of the unusable, when he comes to power, is Nikolaos Michaliakos, is Golden Dawn. The New Republic of Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis what is he doing? He says he'll respect the conditions. Also, instead of making the flag of needing three-fifths of the majority of the Greek Parliament, or 180 Members, to pass this agreement, are the island. Why is New Democracy silent? Why does she have her government representative ask where they are and who are the six who will vote for the agreement that Tsipras needs, instead of asking where these thirty-five people are needed for the agreement? It is expressly stated in Article 28 of the Constitution. I'm filing it in the Minutes. In accordance with Article 28 on the rules of international law and international organisations, three fifths of the agreements are needed. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did New Democracy do? He put the Foreign Division, Mr Kumucako, early as a rabbit, on a television show that he didn't need 180 MPs, but he needs 150 MPs. Good for you! They're worthy! It's worthy of your betrayal, you hypocritical fake right! I am going to talk about today's question which gives me great impression how PASOK, the ones who collapsed agricultural policy, collapsed national production with the agreements of the Common Agricultural Policy of Andreas Papandreou, subsidies, etc. They have the courage today to talk about agricultural policy. We have - and it is a common secret - a huge crisis of values in Greek society. The crisis is not just economic. It is also economic, but it is above all cultural and national. The Greek society has been crushed by the barbarism imposed by the political system for decades. You are also co-responsible for PASOK and the New Democracy and SYRIZA's now. Remuneration, therefore, in all areas of production, destruction of the country's productive fabric, has shifted the country to a post-practical region, not to an independent country. What Andreas said we will be Europe's wardrobes - and he did everything in order to become Europe's wardrobes - is now a reality. Golden Dawn believes strongly and says with all its forces that primary production is the one that will lead us to self-sufficiency and at the same time to national independence, this always depends on the national currency, which means national independence. Of course, hard work is needed and not democracies - a good time - to appoint 'logues'. It is necessary to activate Greece's spiritual potential, the demonic and labouring Greeks, as well as the exploitation of the rich production sources of the country, namely the hydrocarbons and the precious metals that this blessed country hides on its territory. We therefore look forward to self-sufficiency, which must be our great goal, in all basic living species, food, medicines, fuel, weapons. Greece will thus remain free, so Greece will create. We are a rich country, which unfortunately has fallen into the hands of political glass. The hyenas of the political system are destroying the country. Golden Dawn is the only national power, the only power that is subject to a systematic conspiracy of silence by the political establishment and the media and is the only force that aims at the one-way, which is the only national road, what is called national production. Because, as Professor Panagiotis Kondilis said, - and I shall end, Mr - 1% of industrial development is worth a hundred times more than 1% of tourist development or consumer expansion, because the first and only contributes to the self-sufficiency of the country. Yes, we can together make Greece great, sovereign and independent, national development and self-sufficiency, make society fair to equal opportunities for all, Greek and Greek again proud. The nationalist movement can and must bring the Golden Dawn of Hellenism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Spyros Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I thank those colleagues who gave me their turn. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the great picture and the great picture is no more than the common agricultural policy and how it will change after 2020, that is, the day after tomorrow. In line with the European Commission's legislative proposals for the CAP, after 2020 we are attempting to improve sustainable development, agriculture and rural areas by achieving three general objectives, which are summarised below: Firstly, to promote smartly durable and diversified agricultural sector that ensures food adequacy and quality. Secondly, the protection of the environment and natural resources, as well as the fight against climate change. Thirdly, ensuring the social cohesion of rural areas and increasing agricultural income. These three objectives actually create an extremely difficult equation, of course, and that is why we are called upon to combine productivity with competitiveness, respecting the environment and protecting it at the same time. What is being asked of the European and therefore the Greek farmer is the modernisation of the production process and its removal from the old models. It's a huge leap, especially for us. What, however, is the fundamental change of the whole model proposed by the Commission today? The change lies in how the new CAP will be managed as a whole. Indicators will be set at European level and adjusted at national level. Needless to say, if the objectives of the individual national plans of the CFP are not achieved, the funding is being cut off. In addition, this will be checked on an annual basis. If we have not achieved more than 50% of the targets, the funding will be cut. It is therefore necessary to prepare yourself as a Member State and draw up a serious national CFP plan. We must answer key questions here: what is our agriculture and production? What are our objectives and what are their relationship with Europeans? Are they responding to European standards in relation to the environment and climate? Is our whole model economically viable? It offers nutritional adequacy, etc.Huh? Unfortunately, here we are still a long way from all this. And, not least, the Commission keeps for itself a panorama of the programme. Obviously, however, we are now talking about full renationalisation and this, in our view, is a backwardness because the unified nature of policy is being lost. And, of course, there is a risk, which should not be ignored, that after the renationalisation of policy, it is fatal, even gradually, renationalising the resources that will support rural development policy. It is about weakening the whole system, because the Member States that have strong administration, objectives, national agricultural policy will inevitably prevail in internal competition and the inequalities will be greater. The message that goes through the new agricultural policy is clear and that is that responsibility is upon us. Well, either now or never now. Ladies and gentlemen, where are we today? Young farmers are few. It's under 6 percent. Farmers' participation in GDP is less than 5%. Rural education, the exchange of information and knowledge is extremely poor. The majority of holdings are not viable. Agricultural cooperatives and producer groups are indebted. Also, there are no known forms of corruption in the cooperative space. It is the reason why the cooperative movement has been driven to depreciation and collapse, which we all know very well. And, of course, no sinner. In particular, those who have managed this whole critical issue at the time and all those who have raised this corruption because of customer relations must now be wiser. The death of Greek cooperatives is due to the fact that historically and sexually they were not, of course, the majority of them, because there are also brilliant exceptions - associations of producers of an entrepreneurial nature, but instruments of policy and not just rural, of course, the Greek state and the ruling parties. In addition, interventions to combat various diseases, insects, etc., are not made in timely and effective, due to costs or inaccurate management issues. For example, tacosy is a top issue of time delays, it is not new. Farmers are always waiting to get paid and compensated. The lack of processing, standardisation, although several funds have been shared over the years through various programs of the Ministry, for example "Alexandros Baltazis", is the main reason behind the low added value of Greek agricultural products. It should be noted that I am not one of those who believe that farmers should not be taxed. However, the ongoing changes in the rules on taxation and insurance contributions exhaust all kinds of professional and, of course, farmers. How can a young farmer or an existing farmer decide to invest in his work when living in an environment where he doesn't know what's going to dawn on him? We have seen what has happened with the revolts of excise duty on wine. Finally, we believe that this adventure has ended, but it has cost a sector which has made excellent progress, at its own sacrifices. However, the blow that this sector has experienced, the growing, in the four years of application of excise duty, was great. And it wasn't because of the financial burden, as much as the bureaucratic procedures opened up by other issues. In order for farmers to be able to have tax and tax capacity, however, I think that the conditions for income production need to be created. What is being demanded today is the development of the institutional and economic opportunities that the common agricultural policy, as well as the opportunities that the Greek, Mediterranean agri-food standard offers to the Greek producer. Otherwise, fate will be seen in years to pass, opportunities to lose, and problems to multiply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Moraitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. In a tragic situation there are poor and medium-sized farmers, fishermen and farmers all over the country. They are experiencing the consequences and deadlocks of the anti-grassroots policy of the European Union, the common agricultural policy, which all the governments of capital, the New Democracy and the PASOK have decided and implemented over the years yesterday and today's SYRIZA - ANEL, which took over from the previous ones and implements this policy in particular zealously. In today's question there is a description of the problems experienced by the country's poor and medium-sized farms. But you do not say a word about the causes of these huge problems. You focus criticism on management issues, inability to negotiate. SYRIZA is over you. It has proved to be the best manager of this barbaric anti-grass policy on behalf of the capital, the multinational food. SYRIZA does the dirty work in the field of agricultural and livestock production. That is why it is no time to congratulate your partners and the capital. You refer to the question about the country's comparative advantages. Indeed, there are territorial, climatic advantages for the production of quality products that could actually meet modern food needs. None of you, however, say that such a prospect is torn down on the capitalist way of production, where it is leading the profits of multinationals, monopolies and not the people's needs. You are not saying that in this rotten farm system, which you are all serving, what is produced, what is imported and what is exported is determined and subject to capitalist gain. And within all of this you are all doing the delicacy of various measures, such as the Rural Development Programme. What is it, actually? For free warm money to the big businessmen, to the monopolies, from the squeeze of the populace. What do you say to the poor farmers? That they can through these programs find solutions to their suffering. Do you know how much it is to involve poor farmers in these programmes? It's from 40 to 65%. And participation even in the smallest program exceeds 15 thousand to 20 thousand. And who joined him went bankrupt and now feels the debt loop to drown him daily. Reality and life what did it prove? These programmes are fruitful of large capitalist farms, which are able to vertically integrate production, which have the possibility of concluding agreements with food industries and supermarket chains and can promote their products, while poor farmers on the other hand are slaughtered for the profits of monopolies and are crushed in the millstones of competition for profit. The same has happened with the Young Farmers' Programmes, which you are all advertising. Do you know what comes from evidence? Of the ten who entered the Young Farmers' Program, when they're done, there's only one left. And it has not contributed to the age-long renewal of the rural population. Another fairy tale that you forsake will solve the sufferings of poor and middle farmers and farmers are the most famous interprofessionals. What are you doing here? You are slapping poor farmers with monopolies for processing agricultural and livestock products. So, what are you doing? You hide the class opponents of poor farmhouses, who are the big traders, the large-industrials. So you put together partners who fight and fight for their survival with the majesty, traders, who speculate and steal the sweat. You put together exploiters and exploiters, that is, what our people say, 'the wolf keeps the sheep'. The most characteristic example is farmers. The price in the milk is on the tart. It's cheaper than bottled water. But milk and its derivatives, yoghurt, butter, are expensive for people's consumption, careless for the fires working families, while cartels are rich on the other hand. The hypocrisy of the urban management parties is not perfect. What do you all say about the ELGA, which you all over time turned him into a tax-driven, tax-driven mechanism? Whilst licking farmers does not cover basic diseases and disasters. You're pushing them into private insurance. You are not saying that since 2011 the state budget has not given the ELGA a single euro. And yet, all of you, what did you do? You've paid the necrobes of the rural movement, PASPEGES, from the farmers' sweat. He's criticizing KINAL, says about the cooperatives that they need to integrate more quickly into the capitalist market as anonymous corporations. But for agricultural pensions you didn't find in thousands of words in the question for a word. Only Mr. Maniotis said there are delays, which it is. But are the delays? Today - and we shall also refer to the Minister, who said a lie consciously in our view and, Minister, with thirty years of insurance, farmers, born in 1950 and 1951, receive a pension of EUR 330. Of course you all have a responsibility. By law of Mr Simitis since 2001, which you have all kept as an eyewitness, the national promotional pension of 4% a year has been reduced so that today we can reach these points. And the government of SYRIZA came with the Katrugalu law to give the charismatic shot. Minister, we ask you: Today they take 330 euros. What's the national pension? The 384 euros? And what's the reward?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u60	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u61	No, Minister, you know that, today they are receiving a national pension with thirty years of EUR 46. That's the reality. And the national pension as a whole, in 384, will go in 2032. Why don't you say it? But, let's not say, farmers know very well. Of course, you spoke of conquests and that you gave someone. All this was conquered by the struggle of the farm. The tax-free for the first time after forty-five days on the roadblocks. The gradual increase that the farmers have won in five years, the inconvenience, which you have checked, as is the wine tax, which you have taken back and the measures for tsipouro, is all the result of the games. Of course, none of you mentioned why you slander the struggles, criminalize the struggles. There were, gentlemen, the vulcanizers and you today made the country a vast farmhouse. They're being dragged into the farmers' courts. However, it is not going to hurt the farmers and the measures you announced yesterday, Mr Minister, because they really do not respond to the great problems of the poor farmers. That is why we say that confrontation between the urban parties is convenient. It's happening to the individual. After all, you have all voted for the third memorandum. All together, you have taken measures over time and reaped the income of the poor medium-sized farm. All of you resurrect the disorientation of poor and medium-sized farms from the major problems they are experiencing. But the main reason you want to hide the causes that create them that are not other than the capitalist way of production and a tool of this policy is the common agricultural policy. Urban parties are demagogic when they talk about the importance of primary production, the need for productive reconstruction, you say, overthrow the production model. You want to create deceitful expectations that can within this rotten system, which is all determined by capitalist gain, find solutions to poor and medium-sized farms. Which has experience and in the face of this explosive situation, which is getting worse day after day, must organize its struggle. It's the only way that he'll really give an answer to this policy. For the JRC, the line that can give breath and perspective to bio-populist farmers is the force of joint action between the working class, the self-employed of the city and the countryside, women and youth of popular families with anti-monopoly, anti-capitalist goals of fighting on orbit with the European Union, their capital and governments. It is the only hope that can open the way to satisfying modern food folk needs. In our country, indeed, there are objective preconditions for a radically different organisation of the economy and society which can guarantee popular prosperity as long as the people's movement is reconstructed, to believe in its strength with strong JRC and to move the line of conflict and rupture with the power of monopolies, to put its seal on developments and to prove in practice that the socialisation of the concentrated means of production will release the country's great untapped productive potential. Finally, Mr Minister, we want to denounce a deadly employers' crime that took place last night at the unit of NEREA in the fish farms in Astacos, Atolokarnania. Another worker did not return home, returned to his wife, returned to his three children and added to the long list of the dead working class on the altar of the profitability of capital. We say this, Minister, because it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Fisheries and the conditions there, which are medium-sized conditions. You have a huge responsibility, and you and the previous ones, who have made a legal arsenal which does not offer any safety in the life and safety of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 18th High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. You know, childhood memories are indelible. I remember, therefore, in the mountain village of Corinthia, Panorama, my father's village, a picture of life-threatening: the school was full of children and the world was then living, the rural population, farmers and farmers. I really felt like I was living in the middle of the world like a kid I was. I mention this to see exactly how this place was devastated and whether or not this had to be done. A second thing I would like to mention is that there is an old Savvopoulou song that says: "On the stadiums Greece sighs." I am a little paralyzed by saying that in the lands and buds, Greece was sighing at the time, when we saw the products falling into the lands, farmers doing false records of products and land, there was an incredible transaction with the cooperatives, who were killed by this experience and a rural bank, which was supported, sold to Mr Sala instead of 94 million, while only the classic farm building does more than a billion and a country left it without a logbook, without anything, as well as a standardisation and ISO to leave. It's unbelievable oil and lemons to leave and go to Denmark. Because I happened to go to Denmark at the time, I knew that the Danish were gaining from the agricultural activities of the Greeks, because standardisation and ISO did not exist. This reality you have delivered, and as much as you make friendly attempts to prove that something has happened, very negative, you will not succeed. It's a little hard because I heard KINAL colleagues very aggressively and I was surprised. It was really an unconditional aggression. And something else, to get in touch with numbers: I didn't say everything was perfect. I'm one of those who have a sensitivity to this world, because I grew up in a village like most in here. I remember that he, the then Minister for Rural Development, an honest politician, Tsavrate, with half a billion figures, never learned where he went. Cooperative partyers have had incredible parties. And if you would like my opinion, you have handed over the country bankrupt - it must sound like this, you have handed over the country - half a billion so, air - said Chaavaris, I am not saying it, said it by the colleague before and by the State Secretary - and we never know where he went. Of course, this has led to the discreditation of cooperatives which, in my opinion, had rules, had to work with health and have any objections. That's the reality we've lived, lived and delivered to the country. However, in all this history, we know that the annual inputs from the Community budget are EUR 3,000,000. That's how much it is. When this government received fines and charges, it was exactly 3,000,000 euros. Zero, nothing. That's what you delivered. If you don't know, find out. If you think I'm saying too much, here's the papers and it proves it to you. Big talk and excesses don't fit into it. That's what I thought, and that's what I thought. And I liked Mr. Dannelly's speech, which analysed everything in detail. He is a Member of Parliament who, in my opinion, followed him very carefully, and I listened very carefully to my colleague from SYRIZA. You put your hand on the type of suns. It's not just tourism, it's not just energy, it's not just services. I believe that something needs to be done with the agricultural sector. Let's tell him right, if there weren't any economic migrants working on the farm, they'd be completely disintegrated. Who has reached the agricultural sector at this point? Did you make a move for the youth to come back? In my opinion, you have done absolutely nothing. I would like to point out two points, because my time is a bit short. It went on to rebuild this space forty years, aiming for the young to stay or return again. What did he do for this job? I'm not saying it's the biggest step. Three hundred million in sixteen thousand young farmers. It's important, and I think this story is moving forward. I imagine I could learn some details from the ministers. Furthermore, for the first time, we have a body to exploit public agricultural land. They marred thousands of lands that way, detached. It is important because this is the first time that this thing has been introduced for young farmers to turn back and cultivate the land in a proper way and not to go to products for ISO or standardisation in Denmark or the Netherlands. The relevant Agency, the DIAGE, has already been institutionalised. Already, at the moment we're talking, it's set up and it's ready to work. And I know from many of my family friends' children who are unfortunately undergraduate and have finished university that they're coming back. If you don't know, find out. I would also like to say this: some people think it is provocative. Oh, no. Farmers have suffered and I think that this arrangement for 100% deletion of interest on their loans, deletion of fines and surcharges and repayments in a hundred and twenty instalments, as well as deletion of capital up to 60%, is correct. Some have accused this government of taking on board. Oh, no. It's an unfair area. Let's say whatever they want. These people have been through hard, and they're still having a bad time. There was a controversy before. Equivalence, at EUR 384, increases by a great deal. There was nothing before and you know it. I'm talking about national pension. Cooperatives are still not a bad thing. If they have rules, it's the best. There's been a great effort for the first time to form. That negative sign they had to finish. It's hard because the farmer doesn't trust anymore. He remembers what happened. Some parties have enriched themselves - because we are living in the province, and we know them, it is now pointless to tell you details - which is why something needs to be done. This has to be done because we believe that the agricultural sector has been, is and will remain a very strong sector in the country's economy. And I still want to say there's been a fight, we know it. We've lived in memos. It was a success that even lately the wine tax was abolished. It was very important to me. I would also like to remind you that the main priority was to mobilise resources of 6 billion. Listen, it's a big number. As part of the policy of decentralised power, self-government, etc., these 6 billion will manage 37%. So who really cares about the development of farmers? It will be 37% and I think it is the first step. Already 82.6% of this public expenditure, i.e. 4.7 billion, has been committed in thirty-one months to be paid. Not to tell you what was going on with the payments. I think other colleagues have said it and made it clear. For the next few months only EUR 826 million has been planned in the fisheries programme, all of it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to close, because I do not intend to abuse time, to say that I have heard too many tons, etc. And I think sometimes the English or even the Cypriot parliament is coming to my mind. Criticizing is not a bad thing. But you must have made your self-criticism first, apologized for what you do, and then you have the right to criticize. I think the high tone, the great aggression and the distortion of reality are not convinced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister will now speak, Mrs Tyloridou, and I will tell you who will then speak. It follows the questions of those questions, those who want to be second-guessed and closed by the Minister. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the debate which has taken place, despite the differences and disagreements which may have been raised by colleagues in the course of the debate, I think one thing is a common assumption, that the primary sector of the economy is a sector which is very important for our country's progress from now on. The debate that is taking place on the primary sector at European and international level actually highlights this value, as the nutritional adequacy, the supply and production of quality products, the safe nutrition of citizens, the protection of the environment through tackling the phenomena of climate change, are issues that we must discuss and jointly decide that we must try to shield today and move towards the future. However, I cannot in this brief speech not to mention a few points on which the reality has been distorted in this Chamber. Mrs Arabatzis, we will obviously disprove the scenarios they want from the Greek Government in order to promote the sheep and goat farmers out of the profession. Since, as you said, you are very diagnosed and read, you should see that this denial comes not only from the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, but also from the Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u66	I referred to the Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u67	The Commission, you know, usually doesn't deal with scripts and rumors. Without knowing what the centres that promoted these scenarios are, I would like to say that it has come up with a communication which says that it does not plan an incentive for farmers to leave ovine and caprine animals, but precisely the opposite. It supports the economic, environmental and social contribution of ovine and caprine animals to social cohesion and development. So, in fact, it says in the communication - and this is something that has been done following the political efforts of this government - that the feta remains a flagrant Greek and European product and the European Commission's effort is to strike the wrestling of the Greek PDO product out of its imitations. It refers in particular to the personal efforts of the European Commissioner, Mr Hogan, on trade agreements. The European Commission's statement and policy to know that it was not done by a God machine. It was with political intervention from the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which had not happened in the previous period. You will allow me to remind you of the actions of your MEPs when they voted on the CETA Treaty with which the Greek product left on 17 February.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u68	After an urgent question from Mr Kefaliannis, the committee answered. That's not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u69	The second issue is the resumption of disadvantaged areas. It is a political courage to blame this government for the criteria, which you signed in 2013 for implementing the regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u70	They have a degree of freedom of criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u71	Well, he's a political courage. If there are fourteen communities left from the Regional Unit of Serres outside the disadvantaged areas, I think they have every reason to protest to you who, on the basis of your criteria and your negotiation, have stayed out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u72	The eighty one, how did it become fourteen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u73	Madam Colleague, why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u74	But I can't. Don't distort them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u75	Uh, yeah, but you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u76	The Greek Government is making every effort to ensure the growth of employment in the primary sector, to tackle the problems, as I said in my prototype, of Hellenism and illegal and fraudulent actions. At the same time, it strengthens the training of farmers and farmers. It strengthens and creates the effort of intelligent agriculture. We are trying in every way to reduce production costs. Here, too, are the general measures which deal with the gradual reduction of taxation, the reduction of the insurance contributions by farmers by one third, the abolition of the trade fee. Our aim is by means of measures and actions to support young farmers, professional farmers, and in a number of proposals and programmes for the improvement plans, for processing that we believe helps to increase added value, to strengthen producer groups, for infrastructure projects, both environmentally sound and irrigation, for agri-environment actions. I believe that we are giving the hands of the country's rural world those tools which, through cooperation and understanding, can lead us to a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, my colleague. We're entering second grades. Mr Jellonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are four years of government and indeed, I wonder how courageous you are to come here today in the presence of Greek farmers and say that you have not even changed to his positive position. You mentioned earlier that you have a national reconstruction plan for the agricultural sector. You have tabled it in Parliament as well. What did you testify to the House? I, Minister, because you are a new Minister, would never want to be in your position to defend the unexistent work of the former. You submitted a page and a half for the most important sector of the economy. From one and a half page, one is how you will be allocated and what you do for the CAP in the 19.7 billion-dollar period 2014-2020 provided by the PASOK Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u79	It's a summary!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u80	Let's get this straight. That's what you handed over to the House earlier. You delivered a page and a half on the National Production Reconstruction Plan. And you're asking what we did? I will not tell you what we did in the past few years about the rural area. They know that, and farmers experience it very well. Now they have a comparison measure. They didn't know you until yesterday. They believed large tales and easy words. I'll tell you what we've been doing lately during the crisis. To take governance 2010-2012 with Prime Minister George Papandreou. We kept the agricultural sector and the Ministry of Development out of memorial policies. And we have not touched on a single euro - but not a single euro - to the farmer. They know and know very well that, in order to reduce production costs, we went from 6% to 11% in 2010 and in 2011 to return the excise oil tax from 120 million to 160 million, which you abolished. And now you say what we did for the primary sector, unlike you, where in the four years the farmer lost his income annually close to 1.5 billion. Your aim was from the outset to how you were going to do tax evacuation and tax-paying policy for direct payments, because you considered them to be an easy money. That's why you ejected the tax from 13% to 22.45%, so you dismantled the OGA and tripled the insurance contributions. And don't come here today and tell us that the OGA 500 million euros have been lost by the PSI! OGA never had reserves. Let me stress this. Each year they were financed as OGAs from the state budget, because it was not only the insurance of farmers, it covered a number of other insurances where there were no corresponding contributions, whether they were uninsured over-aged, whether they were redundant, or a series of Imbro pensions, Tenedo and not assembled. So he doesn't have any reserves. What 500 million are you saying they've been lost by the PSI? For Christ's sake! Look, it's a criminal thing to agree on. Today there are main OGA pensions, which are coming out of the farmers, starting at 120 euros. If a farmer is twenty years insured in the OGA and he goes out today under the Katrugalou law, he'll get 120 euros. To get the 380 euros national pension, it takes forty years. But this EUR 120 still - it's not your responsibility - they don't get it. I don't know when they'll get them. I told you before, if it has insurance in another fund or abroad, it's over, the farmer is gone! And there is no advance payment to farmers, contrary to the other classes and social groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance. In relation to what you said earlier about the new CAP, look at it. The negotiations on the CAP, on the common agricultural policy, have always been a difficult exercise in the negotiations with the European Union. I told you earlier that in 2012 the PASOK government secured 19.7 billion: 15 billion direct payments and 4.7 billion second pillars. And then there was a problem, because the Member States increased from twenty-seven to twenty-seven. Today the first assessment is with the negotiations that you are negotiating, that we lose about 7% to 8%. We have lost 1.4 billion of them so far. Will we accept paying Brexit? Are we going to accept paying for immigration policy? Will we accept paying for Europe's security through the common agricultural policy? On the other hand, we are at risk of renationalisation - from the back door - through national plans, which we must do as a country to justify the absorption of direct payments. And I ask you, Minister: with the administrative mechanism of the Ministry of Rural Development, as it is today, can we be sure that every year we will have the aid we have, where they will end up? However, since the new CAP is a very big issue and so far no debate has taken place at Parliament level on what you are negotiating, on how you negotiate, on what alliances you have created at the level of other European Union countries, to ensure that the members of the European Parliament are sure, I would suggest that you have a debate on the new CAP in Parliament's Committee on Production and Trade. Because the new CAP, as it comes, is both subversive and difficult to manage, complex and bureaucratic, and we risk having a place of renationalisation through subsidiarity. We are at risk, on the other hand, with the most philosophical targeting it has. But I don't understand. The only people who pay the environment today are farmers through the new CAP. However, we need to see whether we need to pay more than the Nordic countries, which have increased and intensified cattle farming and livestock farming in particular, where the environment is being burdened. These are issues for the new CFP, which really need to be discussed in greater depth. In relation to absorption, I don't have to say it. Farmers know that. For young farmers two years, you have been revoking notices. The third year you booked the Young Farmers' Programme. As for the improvement plans, there you will see that mother loses mother and child mother. You have made repeated reopenings and today you do not dare shut down the use, because the political cost will be high in relation to the appetites you have opened. With regard to organic farming and the programme you have recently opened, you have announced the 200 million. They live outside dynamic organic crops, such as trees, tobacco, organic tobacco and a series of others. Even fruit and vegetables have a problem. So, where did you manage? How much absorption do you have? They are of the continuous, associated projects of the previous CAP. It's arable crops balancing. You have not done any absorption in relation to the programs you should have opened. But you know very well that you are a government on the way, you are a government, which will leave all these open issues to the next government. Just, now you say great words to create impressions. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance with reference to the checks we have heard. Price in ovine and caprine milk began to collapse a year ago and something, when the country's largest deal was closed by the largest feta processor with 3,60 deliverables in a supermarket abroad. And I ask, what did the ministry do? What did the Competition Committee do? It takes four pounds of milk to become a pound of feta. At 3,60 what would he put on? Water? Is there any move then? Oh, no. What checks are we talking about? You have the balances today of the manufacturing industries, when you on your own ministerial decision, on 1384/16-3-2018, this system that you are imposing to make checks has not worked until today. I have heard you say: 'But we are the ones who are prepared to operate on the market, we have passed a law on the movement of fresh fruit and vegetables, on the payment of direct payments in sixty days'. Does this law apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u82	I shall conclude, Mr President. You made a ministerial decision? Can you apply this law that you voted for? Thirty days was the repayment. You took them to sixty. You'll connect them - he says - to the banks and all that. Did you do anything? You made a ministerial decision? This law does not apply. These are your policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u84	I conclude by saying that I really must - and I call on you, Minister - have time to have an extensive debate in a positive direction for an important sector of the economy, also to have a debate on the new CAP in particular, but also on measures that we must take immediately for the primary sector, if we want to have a minimum of nutritional adequacy in the country, if we want to keep farmers in the Greek region, to be able to live from agricultural income and keep social cohesion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. In the process we were, of course, watching the Minister make an agonizing effort to justify the unjustified and, of course, to speak of some fragmentary and partial measures taken by this government. However, it did not respond to the central issue that has to do with the rural development plan, the use of the institutional tools and money at the disposal of the country, such as oliguria and wrong choices on too many issues. And he did not, because he tried to cover the previous political leadership, on the one hand, which was assessed by your Prime Minister, and that is why all of them went to the ground together, but also because the reality disguises what you have said. The commodity market has collapsed. We talked about milk, we talked about olive oil and other products. You see it, producers are crushing down the pressure of unfair competition on the one hand, Greekisations and the absence of controls. At the same time, there is no benefit to the consumer, but no benefit. On the contrary, with the arrogant Hellenisms, we also have products that deceive him. That's what you're up to. You're indifferent. Change policy, if you want. If you don't want or you can't, I think it's time for you to change as faces, but also as government. You spoke of 40% absorption in the Rural Development Programme. The numbers say nothing by themselves. Is it 33.3% of course from the Monitoring Committee, but should we accept 40%? We accept 40%. What areas are they in? These are programmes that were running, they are due, they are obligated. The main programmes to support producer groups, to provide agricultural advice, to strengthen the production process are at 0%. I filed the evidence. Why don't you do something about it, even now? You've been incapacitated so long. Why? You said that the abolition of the wine tax. But when you put him on, we told you, wasn't that true? And in any case, did you abolish the tax on wine and do you not apply the decision of the Council of State to return as if you were wrongly paid for the illegally collected? They're illegally collected. You will return them to the producers, you will return them to the cooperative organisations and producer groups, because you poorly collect them. Of course it will have to stop this with Greek wines on the remote islands, such as in Lemnos and others. It cannot continue to impose a high excise duty. It must go at least to 2009 levels. You said that insurance contributions were reduced from 1 January. Uh, no, they don't. It will in fact be on the same level and a large proportion of farmers will pay a small increase. Why? Because at the same time as the reduction you have made, you are abolishing the discount envisaged. That's actually it. We have a very important issue with regard to the compensation you have said that they are being paid on time. Farmers know that ELGA pays 30%. In fact, I have a specific example where 2017 damages were paid two months ago, 30% of the damage. It was only paid 70%. They're paid late and in instalments. Farmers are well aware of it from Crete to Evros. But that is not just the issue. The question is that you are confined to them and at the same time you are putting great barriers. As far as overtaxation is concerned, let us know. Will you accept the proposal for a law that we have made to reinstate the tax rate to 13%, so that subsidies which are inconsistent as a whole - both aid and compensation and not just the single payment - can then be strengthened by the producer group? We have proposed a new system of insurance contributions. Tell your opinion to the Ministry of Labour. It is not the way it is today linked to income. It is a barrier to development. Finally, for producer groups, have you not realised that they are being dispersed? High taxation and high insurance contributions there lead. We have tabled an integrated proposal which says that incomes from agricultural products moved through producer groups will be taken into account as incomes reduced by 35% and at the same time for small producers we will have 5% extra VAT refund, a measure which can be essential. The abolition of the trade fee must be done for all businesses and it is not enough for this case, although it was a step - you recognise it, it seems - but it is ineffective. Finally, for young farmers we have proposed a three-year payment only for health insurance in order to provide an incentive to support. Mr President, Minister, we did not only criticise this question, we did not only accuse you of what you are not doing or of what you are wrong. We have tabled the proposals again. It is the proposal for a law and the question I ask every time at the Conference of Presidents, because the proposal for a law on discussion in the committee does not come, and the answer is why the ministries refuse to come and discuss it. Of course, it is mostly about the Ministry of Finance and Labour, but it is about you too. They are issues of the Ministry of Rural Development. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister referred to a novel, which we have not actually read. But we have read well, Minister, the novel you are writing now, your Government, entitled 'The Continuation of Lies'. Because instead of taking a serious approach to the issues of structural change, in addition to the criticism we have made in the management, you have tried very easily to charge everything to the previous ones, even with enormous lies. Here, Minister, is Mr.4172/2013, who in Article 21 says that specifically for the purpose of determining income from agricultural business revenues from business transactions include income from agricultural, livestock, forestry, logging and fishery products. It does not talk about subsidies or compensation which you have paid. You agree once with the truth and say 'we made a mistake and let's make it right'. I told you with data derived from the National Statistical Office, which you now recognize, that we had a fall in the gross value of producer prices in animal production from 2.7 billion to 2.4 billion. What is the point of telling us that you have carried out checks, that you have seen the balances, when you cannot explain what led to this drop in producer price, that is to say, in total for livestock production? Can you explain to us why, without changing the basic data, as is shown by the balances, the prices of the producers' milk have been so dramatically reduced? Can you give an explanation? Did you take a substantial political initiative? When we asked you the question, you said that you have not even given the Competition Committee the opportunity to check whether there are unfair practices, whether there are cartels, whether there are any agreements, apart from the Greekisations mentioned by Mr Gelelis earlier. From the ERAS also, since your State Secretary in a way unacceptable to the SYRIZA rhetoric charged them all to the previous ones, I think he has not read that producer prices from 2010 to 2014, that is, the years of the downturn in GDP crisis, not only remained unchanged, but increased marginally. That is, the total of animal and plant production was 9.3 billion in 2010 and 2014 was 9.4 billion and increased in 2017 to 10.038. During the period of crisis, because we have made sure that the memorandum does not come to the Ministry of Rural Development, we have not put any additional taxes, we have not put any additional contributions, we have not put any production taxes, agricultural production has been kept. And you came, when Greece went beyond the crisis, as you say, and had a small - even - increase in GDP, taxes on production, additional taxes and contributions to farmers. Proof of this is that while agricultural income was declared at 1.5 billion, it reached 1,250,000,000. Doesn't that bother you? Did you not understand, in other words, that farmers are saying as much as possible to avoid taxes and levies? And do you not even read the proposal that we have put forward to see the measures we are proposing, to reduce the tax to 13%, as it was, to motivate the teams, to leave the trade tax, to go to the hundred and twenty instalments, in order to make interventions in organisational restructuring of the primary sector and to strengthen production? And you didn't even answer what I asked you and what you found ready. You found the Earth Policy ready and you can't apply it. I told you about the farmers in Agulinitsa and Mouria who are struggling for how the parcels will be distributed and there is at this moment anguish to the full. I told you, Minister, as far as the improvement is concerned, in 4.3.1, that you have prepared the study on the grounding of the network in Elias and you have done nothing. You can't even appoint a president in the GFCM. I told you about the oil and you told me that the Chamber of Agriculture said we had special conditions. Yes, we knew the special circumstances in August and you took no measures. In August, because we had intense liquids, there had to be intervention for the toast, and you were still running the contest. Don't you have any responsibility? Is the good god the fault of all this? There is political responsibility. In any case, in order not to abuse time, Mr President, there are very serious management and structural issues in the agricultural sector. The government proved unable to deal with them. The proposal for a programming nature that we have tabled for the major changes, following the reforms, is a programme that is binding on the Change Movement and we believe that the people will give us the opportunity in the coming elections, through our programme proposal, to change the data in the agricultural sector, because we come from the farmer and we have caught and we have firmly kept the thread of the relationship with the rural world. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, to put a few things in place, because I have the impression that you are not being transferred exactly as they are or, in any case, you are going through a distorting lens many things. Let me start with what I promised you about the Rural Development Programme. Payments so far are 2.1 billion, and of the outstanding commitments are 980 million, i.e. 1,120 billion are new programmes, new payments. The inconvenience was 1.6 billion in total. To figure out what the perpetrators are, they are the "heavens" that you left, which is 1.6 billion. We are trying to clean up the 'tails' by paying and running the new programmes at the same time. Just so we know what we're talking about. From that point on, let's say it again. From the Rural Development Programme, which is a key lever, and that is why we are working so hard and so hard on it, 88% has already been activated. 88% has already been activated! And the next period is expected to be continuously matured, approvals and payments, when - and I have deposited it in the Minutes - the corresponding period, yours, was much - far down. Let us also say that the PAA has been overhauling the ESRB target from 2016-2018, contributing the highest percentage of resource absorption from the Public Investment Programme. Furthermore, to say that for 2018 it has overcompensated the obligations of the n+3 rule set by the European Union, already in 2017, while the payment target for 2019 has been met in the first half of 2018. So don't talk to us about speed when you handed us a programme with four hundred sixty remarks, which was actually a new programme. We rebuilt it in 2015. The four hundred fifty observations in fact were nothing. You filed something to testify. We reconstructed the program and you give up on us? It's a terrible thing to do. It's awesome! We have also talked about the negotiation, about what is going on with the new CAP. The new common agricultural policy, which we are fortunately negotiating and you are not negotiating...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u91	We'll see about that. In the end they shave the groom!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u92	We'll see it along the way. We'll be judged. We'll be here and we'll all be judged. In our positions we stress the importance of maintaining Community funds and we support the fact that agricultural policy must remain a common one, but also maintain its resources, at least at the current level. And this was the first time stressed at the Heads of State or Government's meeting by the Prime Minister himself, with a very good documentation of why stability must be maintained, what objectives the Common Agricultural Policy serves and how Brexit and the new countries will be covered. It was well documented by the Prime Minister and expressed the unequivocal disagreement on two issues. One was the reduction of the multiannual financial framework and the other was the reduction of the financing of the common agricultural policy. The Prime Minister has also spoken of the absurd way in which the financing of social cohesion is calculated. He said that Greece had an unprecedented injustice between 2014 and 2020, that is what you did with your negotiation, when the previous government accepted the paradox - notice - to calculate the amount allocated to Greece for the current programming period, based on GDP, 2007-2009. When we were in the crisis, the then responsible for the negotiation were discussing with the average for GDP 2007-2009.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u93	Did we have a crisis in 2007-2009?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u94	Just because we had no crisis in 2007-2009, but the negotiation took place in 2013-2014 you discussed in pre-crisis terms. That was the paradox. That is why we have led to this programme, which we very well criticised for how you negotiated and where you finished it. I'll explain it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u95	So you'll bring in more resources now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u96	So, apart from the unfairness that has been done for the country, we disagree - and the Prime Minister has expressed himself - vertically in every attempt to nationalise the CFP, because such a phenomenon cannot be accepted and in no way must the negotiating door be opened. I hope you're not saying that. I think we've made that clear. On fisheries: the institutional framework for fisheries is 1966. It's Law 666 of '66, the famous. This is the institutional framework that we have and we are moving towards a new fisheries law. We are going to change the institutional framework, because we are working with a vision and a plan. And I'm going to tell you something, since we're talking about fishing. Traditional vessels were rescued for the first time from the programme for the dismantling of vessels, the withdrawal of fishing vessels. Nine traditional scarves were rescued. And since we are talking about withdrawal plans, these imaginary - I suppose I would say, not imaginary - scenarios that have been circulating lately, as the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Tylorid, quite rightly said, are suspicious. It has never been discussed, it has never been asked by the Greek Government, it has never been discussed in a European institution, it is disguised from everywhere, and I think we have already dealt with a great deal and as long as such a debate continues, I think it throws water into the mill of interests or logic behind them. But you see that when we try to support all the areas that have suffered injustices, which have suffered reductions, that have accepted the problems of climate change, as a first country of line, we and Cyprus, have in mind one logic, the logic of 'gift all'. It's not like that. Everything we're planning has cause, it works, it's measurable, because we - I told you before - have a plan on how we work. Another point I want to stand on is that you blame us for the checks. You have dedicated your policies to the entire Ministry of Rural Development and its supervised bodies. Food and fisheries were two areas that were found to have as little as possible, minimum staffing in fish scientists and veterinarians. We are now moving on, through mobility, but also through the new notices that have been adopted and are continuing for 2019, immediately this year to serve the areas that are hurting. Ask the employees of the Ministry of Rural Development to tell you why we will not apply the rule 'five departures to one' that envisions the Civic Opposition. We will proceed with rule 1 to 1 in areas that have key issues and are key to health, food safety and the financing of the country, because we do not play with these things. You talked about the plan. What I have tabled - if you did not understand, to say again - is the summary of the national plan for the primary sector, is seventy pages, which was discussed in the Committee on Production and Trade. Its summary is part of the national strategy and that is what I have tabled to you. Everything else and yet you still have it in your hands or at least you have to have it and have studied it by discussing it here, at this very top point. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Many issues were discussed at regional conferences. We are following their course of implementation, Mr Theocharopoulos, and I sincerely thank you for pointing this out, to show here the very design we have, that they have not passed and are done. Now begins the reverse cycle of seeing what happened at each of them, that is, a second cycle of regional conferences where we will go and see in every ministry, in every sector what exactly has happened from what has been announced at all regional conferences. We are modernising Greek agriculture. As soon as the inclusion of agricultural consultants in the system has been closed and the notice of the Agricultural Counsellors Measure begins. Also, with regard to "Intelligent Agriculture", after being co-formulated with the Ministry of Rural Development, we proceed to the promotion in the next period. Also, in the next period, you will see that we are moving towards a number of measures to reduce production costs, as we have already announced. But don't rush. You'll see everything along the way, you, who haven't done forty years or what you've done, you expect us to judge that it hasn't happened in the last four years. That is not to say that it is too much. However, I would also like to reply to the question of pensions. You are accusing us that of the fourteen thousand pensions of the 1950s, there is a loose end to those who had also other funds or foreign pensions. Yes, sir. Do you remember how many thousands of outstanding pensions were in 2014? Do you remember what the volume of unintentional pensions of people who waited for years to come?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u97	Those who don't have a sequential payroll?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u98	All this is in a flow of payment and we are now in the current state. The vast majority of those being submitted are paid in space that has never been in the past to know what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u99	Oh, the big majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u100	And what Mr Moraite said - I personally was tempted - on the issue of the births of the '50s, I happen to know it firsthand and legislatively and personally. If you see a decision to retire a human born in '50, you'll understand what I'm saying to you. But I guess you haven't done it, and I'm gonna have to get her to testify to her in the Minutes to see her. It is such a good decision that writes on what he would take with the previous Loverdus - Kutrumani law, what he would take with full application of the Katrugalo Law and what he takes in transition. You will see that in relation to the Law of Loverdou - Kutrumani, pension is increased. What the JRC obviously says and accuses us is that it wants full and immediate implementation of the Katrugalo Law. That's what he wants, no transition. However, let it be said directly that "we agree with the Katorugalou Act", that 'yes, it gives more provision' and 'yes, we want it to be implemented without transitional'. That's what she says, but she'll say it clearly. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are responding with deeds and not with words and wishes. The rural world expects a lot and expects a lot from us because he knows that we are next to him, we are the people who can understand him, we are the people who are not career politicians, but we are the people who will come back there and look back at this world that we worked with him, we will live next to him again and look at him in the eyes. We live in the countryside, live on the islands, live in society, live with these people. We have decided one thing to draw up a policy without short-sighted and micro-political logic. This has been demonstrated by the dialogue we have had with farmers so far and by our way. We meet, we meet again, we talk, we solve problems bigger, smaller all the time. Hard work, however, with vision and a plan, because as a French philosopher says, there is no favorable wind to the one who does not know where he is going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u101	Minister, please complete. In any case, after Mr Theocharopoulos has spoken, you will conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u102	I'm done with this. I would like to say to you, therefore, that the world has both memory and judgment and reason and will be expressed. 2019 is election year, here we will be. Let me inform you that the book "The Clementommon" is Nikos Papandreou, and that is why I said that you will have studied it, and that is why you targeted your policy on this book. But people have a memory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for six minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u104	Minister, during your speech again, you have not answered the questions we have raised and the questions which I, too, have put to you as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Incorporation. You say: 'You blame us, you blame us'. Nobody blames you. Review makes you an Opposition and asks for answers, answers we don't get. And you say, "You blame us, while you, while you..." again before 2015, you respond. You are opposed to opposition, without giving any specific answers to the issues that we have, nor do you, of course, have any plans for agricultural policy. You said that thankfully, your government is negotiating the common agricultural policy. I would remind you that, with your negotiation, we have already had a 17% reduction in the CAP resources. I told you in my speech at first. And of course what we had received, about 19.5 billion euros, with the previous 1912-13 negotiations for this seven-year period, now you don't see it under any circumstances for the new period. Then you accused that of opposing it. We are, of course, saying that 'we are in favour of a common agricultural policy'. We have not told you that you are currently not in favour of a common agricultural policy. We told you why and what you did when the matter was raised in the Council of Ministers for the Renationalisation of the Common Agricultural Policy, if your Government had at that time a comprehensive plan to avoid the tendency to renationalise the Common Agricultural Policy to the Council of Ministers when the debate was held by your Government. Of course you have not responded and what is going on with the agricultural advisers - I told you why I find it very critical, I personally find it very crucial - and why there is such a delay, so that there is a risk that European funds will be lost, that resources will not be used for professionals who will work and farmers who will find solutions. You did not, of course, give answers to young farmers, incentives and digital farming. And you said about the development plan that it is seventy pages, - we know, we have read them, we have read them - but you have found nothing from this development plan to analyse, to say how agricultural policy is linked, for example, to regional development, what your objective and vision is, within these seventy pages. Tell us in particular what steps. There are many others, of course, in relation to rural reconstruction. What's got to be done? Because we don't make sterile criticisms. A national plan for the recovery of the rural economy must immediately be drawn up. It can no longer be expected that it will be worked out and implemented. What should be the visionary goals? I mean, so that we can do some things so that in two or three years' time we can begin to see rural development, in addition to what we have said in both the prototype and you have answered or not answered. Firstly, we must aim at the verticalisation of production, which reduces the total cost, reducing the opening-up of the price lane, with regulations relating mainly to the reduction of profits in the marketing chain. You know, even that OECD report, the famous profit margins in the retail chain for milk, said that these margins are the highest in the European Union. The previous Minister who was sitting in your seat kept saying that opening a price bar is 1 to 7, but it has not been reduced, you have not succeeded. It's 1 to 7. Will there be a strategy to reduce this price shelf opening to increase the price in the field and reduce the price on the shelf? This means reducing the price shear opening. Will a turn be made to the production of quality agricultural products, to promote integrated management and organic farming? When we say a turn, we mean what motives will be given. Because we have delays there and not motives. Will there be arrangements to reorganise trade in agricultural products that will bear revenues and reduce costs? Here, too, there are issues. What about the creation of a reliable system of controls and certification at all levels? To promote modern marketing, standardisation, processing and new forms of contractual agriculture that will increase overall revenue. Will we finally aim - and we say this for so many years - at the restructuring of crops, with an emphasis on products that we are gaining and can stand by the international markets? Turning to the production of livestock products that we are in deficit, using and managing pasture as a lever for rural development. I asked you on a specific point - you did not answer the sixty days - which the farmers have a problem with, because the sixty days, which your government has established, are not complied with. A letter empty content is shown. You have not given an answer to something that concerns the farmer who has a problem, because he feels weak in relation to the negotiation that is taking place. Will there be a decisive shift in rural research, its connection to production and marketing? Will we proceed with the development of infrastructure and the construction of irrigation projects, which will reduce production costs and will we really support collective actions with an export orientation? Will we strengthen producer groups for activities involving specific innovative products? In these minutes I have tried to tell you how, with what actions - decisions on them and then decide how to specialize them - we will actually be able to reconstruct agricultural production. Because the other things you are referring to or not mentioned are micro-regulations which do not solve any problem. Our country has all its potential, it has the climate, it has the farmers, it has the farmers, it produces with comparative advantages of innovative, quality agricultural products, and it can afford to penetrate foreign markets, as long as there is this framework that will enable it. Unfortunately, even today, there are not even the foundations for the reconstruction of the rural economy in this context either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. The Minister has the floor for two minutes to close the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, I will not need more than two minutes. Thank you. Let us say here, Mr Theocharopoulos, that the negotiations on the new CAP have not been closed. So these numbers that you say are lost...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u107	They're gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u108	You said 'they'. We'll see at the end and here we'll be - we've said it again - to be called and compared. Of course, someone said that because of overtaxation farmers are stepping up tax evasion, tax evasion. We should be a little more careful about what we say in this Chamber. If you have complaints that farmers are going far away or that tax evasion in this sector has increased, to submit information. Integration in our policy and our culture is the stimulation and encouragement and consolidation of cooperatives, precisely so that farmers can be in a safe environment and enjoy the fruit of their work in a safe context. And it is not just our ideological choice, but it is a reality that is happening in Europe. And here in our country with a deep history of cooperatives, with active cooperatives over a hundred years, we have managed a very small percentage below 10% to participate in cooperatives. And that's why we'll have to look and look in the mirror, see who's to blame and go down there. We give a great deal of priority to dismantling projects which had already been detained with the previous programmes. We are talking about a series of projects to which you and many of your Members have referred. We now do what we are doing as a priority - and with the cooperation of the Ministry's services - are that we are completing the design of projects with their irrigation to be operational and to integrate them in all ways, and with the assistance of measure 4.3.1 and of the ILO and the relevant ministries, in European programmes. Why? For more than anything now climate change is also pushing us. That's why I'm telling you, we need to look forward and not our feet. And I'm ending with the active programs, the promotion programs. There are promotional programmes. We do not only stand by the intangible costs that have been used in the past for 'daily' feeding. We are also going on to stimulate consumption that has direct effects on the farmer, on the winemaker, on the beekeeper, on the farmer in general, on the farmer and on the fisherman, on the stimulation of consumption with fruit in schools, on actions such as the exports that we have discussed and on the way in which we have been discussing and on how we can finance consumption, not on the promotion of wine, on the promotion of meat, on the promotion of meat, etc. Both internally and externally. That's exactly what it means, we're working on a plan, and we know where we're going. Thank you very much for today's debate. People are listening to us, and in the end they will judge us all, not what we have said, but what we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-11-S1-commons.u110	With the consent of the House at 14.20', the meeting for the next Monday 14 January and 12.00' on the subject of the House's work, legislative work: a) a vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Strengthening the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Supreme Allied Commander of Transformation (SACT) and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, on the placement of a National Liaison Representative at the General of the Hellenic Alliance and on the exchanges of letters extending the validity of the above Memorandum" and b) a discussion and vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed to you.
