ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Modernisation and Reform of the Institutional Framework for Private Clinics, Establishment of a National Public Health Agency, Establishment of a National Institute of Neoplasms and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 1 March 2019 to discuss the draft law at one to two meetings, one single, on the principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u4	On the opportunity of giving me the floor, I would like to say the two points on which I would like to speak. The first is about what you just said. We disagreed, and we have raised it since last week at the Conference of Presidents on this bill, as if you remember well and Mr Lovers had raised a matter for the respective large bill with many articles of the Ministry of Economy. The Ministry of Health bill, however, is not a bill with a single follow-up. It has several pieces, articles differently from each other, and as a result - and I say that from now on and from the Step - I ask the President-in-Office, whoever is, tolerant. Because if the debate, for example, ends today, we will not be able to place ourselves much more on the amendments, if anything, and on some of the articles in the bill, which are a hundred and forty-seven. Add six ministerial amendments that are 'current' to date - ten minutes ago the latter was tabled - together with any amendments that have been accepted. It is a good request to the Bureau and through the Bureau to the Government, to the respective Ministry, directly or in any event in a reasonable time, to say which parliamentary amendments it is acceptable to us, so that we, when placed, can also know what we are going to place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u5	As you know, Mr Lambroulis, and in your capacity as Vice-President, in the Conference of Presidents it was decided to hold a debate if necessary in two meetings, today and tomorrow, that is, until it was covered...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u6	As long as it does.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u7	That's right, if need arises. So, if necessary, the bill will continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u8	The need will be if there is a large number of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u9	That's right. If there are a large number of speakers, it will continue tomorrow. But you will have the time to say what you want, at least with my President-in-Office. So I don't think there's a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u10	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u11	Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to address the Minister with you. We have taken a decision at the Conference of Presidents and have reiterated it, that the ministerial amendments should be tabled by the beginning of the plenary debate. Then they won't be accepted. However, because there is the process of devastated, that is to say, amendments by parliamentarians, what the Vice-President said, on the part of the Communist Party of Greece, is very right. He must tell us how many amendments the Minister will accept from the Members now. So we have the same standards and same standards for everyone and for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u13	Look, I agree. But I don't know if the Minister's seen them all to answer now. But at some point he'll see them and answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u14	Oh, no. For the parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u15	I am referring to the Members' amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u16	Until the end of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u17	Yes, until the end of the rapporteurs. He'll see them and answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u18	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u19	Mr President, what my colleague says from the majority is not so. Because a ministerial amendment may bring us a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u20	I agree. He'll answer. When the rapporteurs are finished, he will have seen the amendments and come to an end. Please open the electronic recorder system. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Kaisha, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the crisis the health system has reached its limits of collapse. Only two elements I think are sufficient to confirm the above claim. In 2015, hospitals owed 730 million. There was no hospital he wouldn't owe, no old debts to his suppliers. Thus hospitals had arrived not to have syringes, not to have simple materials, which are necessary for their operation. In 2018, hospitals have a surplus of 200 million. This shows, at least as far as the economic part is concerned, where we are and how they were dealt with. The second element is that the health system during the crisis was fired or retired or removed by a total of twenty and a half thousand workers. Again until 2018 they have entered with various working relationships - either permanent or subsidiary or a fixed term - eighteen and a half thousand. As we understand, there is a deficit of four thousand from the previous situation. According to the latest communications, however, the Ministry of Health, in 2019 and in the next three years will be appointed in the health system of a total of ten thousand. Already 2019 will be two and a half thousand. As we understand, there is a restoration of this collapse, the system has strengthened, it has stood on its feet, it can respond. And so today we have a bill, which modernises and reforms the institutional framework of private clinics, recommends a National Public Health Agency, recommends a National Institute of Neoplasms and other provisions. This draft law further strengthens the system in principle in three areas. One is the private clinic. Private clinics - as we know - have at least not improved over the past twenty years. Nobody's bothered. The a.i.d. 517 and 247/1991 set high standards and those which were made after that date met the current standards and current scientific needs. The d.d., however, concerned with pre-existing clinics, set lower standards and those clinics could not respond. Today, even more, they cannot respond to today's needs. So we need to intervene. The purpose of the intervention is for all clinical patients to be subject to common rules, to have a unification of all provisions which are scattered in order to be easier to implement and to control. The conditions that come in terms of metric elements are self-evident and independent. Conditions are in place to grant a clinical permit, as well as a licence for operation. The owners or the scientific managers of the clinics are being blocked. Issues such as workers' industrial relations in clinics, medical equipment, etc. are regulated. All this is aimed at upgrading clinical and high-level care that they will be able to offer. The second issue to which the bill deals is that it establishes a National Public Health Agency, a National Public Law Agency, which is necessary because the pre-existing Agency, CEDEFOP - as we all know - is an agency which has been established since 1992, but had no organisation, had no rules of procedure, had no addresses. He was a legal person under private law and could not be audited. In other words, it was an Agency that was ideal for corruption, strife and all that happened. And I think one fact that says it all is where this Agency had arrived. That it had come to order in a flu epidemic of 16,000,000 vaccines from which only 500,000 were carried out, we understand that this Agency cannot be reformed or set up or changed. We are accused that the new Agency is a disguise and that it simply "changes its clothes". That he will only be a legal person governed by public law and he will be subject to public control if he is not the same. This new Agency will naturally have an administrative board, people of unknown prestige who will be in the field of health. Its purpose will be to defend and promote health in the population and will be the universal successor of the former Agency, the CEDEFOP. There is indeed one difficulty, because the liquidation will take place in operation as those who know about the liquidation of accounts. There will be a difficulty, because until the CCIPIN is cleared up and the EGE is created, they will coexist in a few phases. Without a public health agency, however, the country cannot stay for one day. Despite the difficulties, we believe that this project can be achieved and things restored on a proper basis. The staff of the CEDEFOP, of course, will be transferred, depending on their working relationships, to the new Agency. Here I would like to stress that CEDEFOP has valuable people, worthwhile workers, scientifically trained in high-scientific training, and who have, of course, ceased to have such an Agency. The third is that a National Institute of Neoplasms is being set up. We all know that cancer is a disease which has tens of thousands of dead in our country per year. However, there is a lack of such an institute, which will design at national level the action against cancer. And of course, it is not just research or prognosis or treatment or diagnosis or care of cancer patients. It is intended to come in cooperation with relevant European organisations and international organisations and to cooperate with scientific organisations. There is one question with which we are being criticised. ‘It is good to do it, but it will be done’. It is necessary, of course, very necessary, but that this funding, this Agency, will no longer be financed by some anti-cancer funders and by some other revenues, but by the budget itself, I think it is a guarantee that it will go further. The other provisions regulate too many issues. I'll give you a few outlines. There is a National Patient Register which, together with the Personal Electronic Health File, ensures more rapid diagnosis and treatment for patients and provides effective monitoring for all patients. It is known that so far there has been no check on what a sick person will do. When he went to a second doctor, he usually went with some tests. If this doctor wanted to repeat one of these tests, because he did not believe in the laboratory, it was a common phenomenon that the patient would go around with an envelope of magnetic, CT and anything else you can imagine, which he had done every week or every fifteen days, as if the data had been changed within such a short period of time. This, of course, did not only concern the patient's suffering, it wasn't just a waste of time, it was even beyond ineffectiveness. With the National Patient Register and the Electronic Folder, now, these distortions will disappear. It is regulated to prescribe drugs in such a way that patients can basically be relieved of oncology and not only, according to the current data, without the old suffering of the patient begging them to write a prescription for them. The site of supervised use shall be established. These spaces will be supervised by municipalities or institutions and there at least two things will be secured. The one that we will not have contaminations, which these high-risk users often suffer, thereby disturbing their health. Secondly, and more importantly, if there is an overdose, it can be handled and saved. The experience that exists around this issue and the OECD, which has been used for about eight months, but mainly abroad that has been tested, shows encouraging results. Finally, the conditions are laid down for the granting of an unhealthy allowance, the circulation of free electronic cigarettes and regulated by the National Transplant Organisation. These are issues that are overdue. Not only organ, tissue, but also cells are regulated. Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing the bodies, which have all been put in a positive position but one, I believe this draft law helps to reconstruct and modernise the health system and, as such, I invite you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u22	The rapporteur for the new Republic also has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clearer, and despite the desperate efforts made by the government to convince the contrary, that things in health are not going well. And it is not because the government is bound up with the perceptions that have led us to the crisis, that is to say, the state, the clienteles, unreserved recruitment and, above all, the perseverance of the political opponents. They don't care about anything else. That's all they care about. The results are dramatic for citizens and especially those in need of immediate care. In everyday life, epidemics, such as the recent flu, but also diseases such as measles, have not been adequately treated by mosquito infections. In addition, the state-owned logic of establishing these local health units, recommended by the Government in 2017, has led to a huge failure. Today about half of them are working and they do not have the basic problems for the citizens. For this reason, all patients are resorting to hospitals, which are on the edge of their operation, with doctors and nurses making real superhuman efforts to make self-evident. In addition, the customer logic is everywhere, directly outsourced to security companies in CEDEFOP, staff recruitment processes in the "PHILOS" programme without so many others. Of course, even today, where there is a need for targeted recruitment to hospitals, the necessary steps have not been taken. I remember four years ago the Prime Minister assured the Ministry of Health of recruitment. However, priority was given to your own children and the thousands of posters you hired and not the problems of the world. Yesterday you reiterated new declarations for the recruitment of ten thousand medical and nursing personnel in the next four years. Four years you have forgotten them and come now, on the eve of the elections, to order appointments. You are the epitome of the old in the political life of this place and they have all understood you. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I would ask you to impose order because colleagues are strong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, especially doctors, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u25	On this occasion, I would like to congratulate the new leadership of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association that doctors have given her a great victory in the elections in voting for liberal and reformist forces. For where polls are set in the health field, whether doctors or nurses, either in the EKAB, or even in the health ministry's poll, the crash of SYRIZA's forces is a fact. Because those working in the health sector are well aware of the consequences of your policy and show the way for the great political victory that comes to the May elections in the municipalities, regions and hopefully also in the polls of the national elections. Because those working in the health field embraced and embraced the New Democracy programme to upgrade health, which we presented a few days ago after a long consultation and genuine consultation with all the relevant bodies. Now the government - to come to this bill as well - brought this incredibly large bill, a hundred forty-seven articles, hundreds of pages, about seven hundred pages. It is a bad practice of legislating, where the representatives of the bodies have not even been able to place themselves. It also appeared to the committee that the Government remains committed to its ideas, in particular as regards the part of the bill relating to the Agency replacing the CEDEFOP, the EGE in Articles 48 to 63. We as a New Democracy have shown with concrete evidence that European experience prejudges the functioning of public health bodies as legal persons under private law and do so, not by perseverance, but because they have better flexibility in the circumstances that are required, such as epidemics, viruses, natural disasters. They do not want legal persons governed by public law that cause more bureaucracy and ineffective functioning problems. And that is not just what we have pointed out, but even your own distinguished partners, such as Mr. Panagiotopoulos, a valuable associate of Mr. Xanthos said exactly the same. I say in the Minutes the position of the scientist, your distinguished partner, namely, that 'the creation of a legal person governed by public law - I read him - will create more problems than will resolve the defence of public health for the citizens, which is the subject of it'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] No one says the CDC had no problems. They were problems that had to be tackled, but this does not mean that in its position we need to create an even more embarrassing and bureaucratic Agency as a legal person governed by public law that neither the Agency's workers ensure, as they themselves now understand. We would like to point out that we have asked you - and we are still asking you - to bring us the report from the Legal Committee of the Parliament on the issue, which you are still handing it over to us, to see what it says about the crucial issue of the legal form of the Agency. Indicative, Minister, your party logic is that the decisions of the Board of Directors. They will pass first through the approval of the Ministry's Directorate-General for Public Health, i.e. again suffocating control and bureaucratic procedures and undermining all autonomy of the new Agency. Finally, there is also a question with regard to the provision of Article 54 in the exceptional cases in which the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority is in a negative position to shorten the time limit provided for in Article 2(2)(c). Now in the first part of the bill, Articles 1 to 47: The arrangements concern the operation of private clinics. It is indeed a landscape that has to be regulated. But there too, unexplainedly, you are conducting a tightening up of the framework in which a person may be authorised to operate a clinic, and even stricterisation is unreasonable. You told us you were going to bring some changes and we're still waiting to see them. In other words, we say, for example, that a man who has been sentenced to a crime, first of all, and has eaten a year in prison, has no right to leave. A year of imprisonment can be taken by someone who has suffered a car accident, someone who has a urban arrangement. In other words, it's absurd, rather than associating exclusion with this particular species, the object of the crime, you're correlated to it with the limits of the sentence. There's no logic at all. We have seen no change in Article 8 that strictens the criteria for the functioning of private clinics. We insist: This can lead to the closure of about one third of private clinics operating with painful consequences for about a thousand five hundred workers in them. It is, of course, a counterincentive for investment. What am I telling you, of course, now? We also object to the regulation of Article 13(3), which provides that workers and subjective doctors, but also inspecting doctors, are compulsory for their services under a contract of conditional employment, that is to say eight hours. Will he do his eight and if he wants him then how will he come? Is he going to come illegally later in the clinic to do his job? Because he may be called at twelve, at one or two, because he's a doctor, he's not a civil servant. With regard to the provision of Article 21, this is a tool for an existing regulation of the SYRIZA Government which does not lay down uniform rules and does not guarantee equality between all parties involved. Finally, a sample of the dubiousness with which you have drawn up this bill is what is stated in the Annex, that there should be in private clinics the specific machinery in question. The new machinery you have put it - 'cut off' - that Mr Paulakis, too - will understand me from the presidential decrees of 20 years ago and 30 years ago. These are machines that are mentioned and which are no longer there, because they have been replaced by more sophisticated ones, because for three machines than you put, they are now coming out on a machine. Nothing, we replicated them, just to see that we did something. Now in the part concerning the National Institute of Neoplasms, articles 63 to 80: Here - oh, of the miracle! - you make a legal person under private law. Good thing you don't make another legal person under public law. On the occasion of the creation of to say, no matter how much you are trying to convince the contrary, that if it existed and operated as an address within the CEDEFOP, and indeed with guaranteed funding, you have deceived it and now you are creating a legal person under private law. The problem is that with its many provisions you are also reducing its self-sufficiency, since many of its decisions will require the approval of the Minister and not of the Board of Directors, as is the right thing to do. But, above all, the EEE, as you say, does not provide for specific funding or a strategic action plan. In every case we are committed as a New Democracy to the development of the Institute for Neoplasms, like all the institutes for the major diseases of national importance, which will be one of the first interventions of our Government in the health policy of the country. Now to the rest of the bill, from Article 81. There is a whole range of provisions which, in the first place, it is unacceptable that all of them should come together without any logic at such short notice. In Articles 81 and 82, which relate to the structure of the Ministry of Health, a total of new addresses are created, new sections which all contribute to your logic, namely the creation of bureaucratic structures, which will all, of course, be controlled by the Minister. I am impressed by Article 11(2), Article 81. That's where you say you're building a self-contained supply department that will have, among other things, the supervision of supplies made by public and private sector legal persons under the supervision of the Ministry of Health. I'm sorry, are you kidding us? What are we going to do with the Central Supplies Agency? Another structure? What can I say? Listen to what is provided for in another provision: In the case of Section I of Physicians, Dentals and Pharmaceuticals of the Department of Physicians, other Physicians and Health Professionals, a person of Pedagogicals may also be lead. I repeat to hear it again: He's going to be headed by a graduate of pedagogical education at the Department of Doctors and Dentals. Comments are unnecessary. Just tell us the A.T.D., put us in the photo and know who it's about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u26	Since our teacher is a teacher, what can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u27	In Article 83, the Patient Register has not explained why HICP, an institution for the e-government of social security, can effectively manage the patient's individual electronic health file, when it can be done much more effectively than the Agency that manages health expenditure, i.e. the EEAH itself. The only explanation is that a suspicious observer would have imagined seeing this government. Why should a function that can be transferred to a fully controlled government body should be left to a relatively independent body? This transfer entails a new burden on budgetary money in times that are probably not overloaded. Now, in relation to supervised drug use sites, to say that we have said that at the beginning of any provision to reduce the damage, both drug addicts and the whole social group, we are in favour, we are positive. However, what we have told you from the outset is that, on the one hand, it must be combined with other actions, because the reduction in damage must concern both reintegrating and disintegrating and reducing crime, and on the other hand, we have drawn attention to the issues of legality, because what you bring cannot function on its own, other things need to be done and that is why it did not work in 2013. I do not know if, by bringing it today without changing anything, you are really interested in reducing the damage to these people. I'm asking again. These are issues which need to be resolved in relation to the criminal treatment of these people and police action, when these people are on the one hand inside the centres, on the other hand, outside the centres. And in the provisions now on smoking, there is here, Minister, a problem with European legislation, because you know that the provisions you are proposing, because they precisely amend technical rules concerning all European legislation in the Member States, cannot be made by a single Member State, but they require consultation at least three months and a maximum of eighteen, in order to examine their compatibility. You, in a strange way, tried to pass it through the urgency procedure. But the decision was made to tell you that it was illegal to legislate before the end of the consultation, at 6-6-2019. And I am tabling the relevant communication from the European Commission in the Minutes, please. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What do you want me to preside over your co-legislatorship? We have not received an answer to Article 99, where there is a five-day risk permit for each two-month working period for operators of radiological machinery, but not for doctors or for nuclear and radiologists, unless you have changed it. I wish. Also referred to in the same article is ‘radio physicists’. Correct it, we told you. People are radiological. And that's 'copy paste'. In 1974 they were called radio physicists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Your Honor. We are obviously opposed to the coverage of the legal expenses of the Governor and the Board of Directors of the EMCDDA, as provided for in Article 127, in the event of a trial. It's obvious who it's about. It is about the former commander of the EMCDDA, who at the time of the tragedy in Matti was on vacation. But what I'm holding is you're cut off for the administration, the board. and the commander, instead of bringing provisions that look at how they will arrange for the same workers. First time on the left! Two words on the subject of medicines and some other provisions. There are provisions relating to medicines and pharmacists, which are problematic for the scientific autonomy of the industry and make it difficult to provide medicines to citizens. Finally, in relation to the evaluation of medical technology and medicines, we have not received any response, as we have asked in committee, to specific categories of medicines, such as generics or bio-like products that may not be necessary to pass from an evaluation to be compensated. These medicines, due to their lower price, have the potential to offer patients additional therapeutic choices and to contribute to the sustainability of the health system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I'm closing with that, Mr. President. This savings can be used to cover additional innovative treatments for the benefit of patients. And since the issue of uninsured citizens is again coming up with a provision which we agree with and we will hear the supposedly first of SYRIZA, so I have here - and I told you in committee - an article that Mr Xanthos has signed. You, Minister. The article was posted in the newspaper "AGEY" where you say that the hospitality of uninsured persons, which exists and is now done - in 2014 - does not solve all the problems, but ensures that medicines and hospitalization are available to uninsured people. You said that in 2014. I'm filing it to know what everyone said in every period of his life. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you were saying that the unsafes were covered, but that's not enough. We are now voting against the bill. We shall vote on some articles which we consider to be correct. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u28	Thank you. Before I give you the floor, Mr Barriota, to make known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-four students and students and four of their educational sessions since the 9th Grade of Ioannina. The House, guys, welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At the same time, I announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Research, exploitation and management of the country's geothermal potential, the establishment of the Hellenic Authority for Geological and Mining Research, the ownership of natural gas distribution networks and other provisions". Please, Mr Barriotta, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. We have to discuss today a huge bill, a verdict, the first bill after sixteen eighteen months from the Ministry of Health. After a period of youth, in the last few hours, it has been'saving' literally amendments. Some are very important and very large. Seconds ago I received an amendment concerning the invoicing of medicinal products, which I could not read. That is why, Mr President, we will call for flexibility in the time, in second place, to be placed on the amendments once the ongoing tabling of amendments has been completed. As far as the bill, as I said, is a draft vertebrate, it concerns clinical, private clinical regulations, the disguise of the CEDEFOP in EGE, the creation of the National Institute of Neoplasms, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Health Organization, which is not too old, is a presidential decree of 2017, which is again changing. What has been tried to pass under the radars and which I am the only one to comment on, and I have heard nothing from the Minister and from no one of the coup d'état, is the extremely important issue of data management and e-government, in which, as we will see below, there are major arrangements for which no comments have been made, at least until now - and I would really like to hear the reasons why political choices are made - and a 'collars' from regulations, which others are positive, other negative, others are really going on and others are waiting for. Along with these and amendments, as I said before. I am going to make a first comment on what I have received. In Greece over the last four years it has been subject to fragmentary amendments. It would be a good thing at some point, as we do with clinics today when we codify legislation, at some point codify the amendments relating to invoicing and trafficking in medicinal products, because the legal framework is beginning to become extremely complex. As far as clinics are concerned, it is indeed a codification of the legislation. They don't change much, they don't close any of the old clinics, and it's good for the start. There was a period during which there was an intermediate circular of the ministry, which effectively threatened a large number of old clinics. There some people have either been forced to close or unduly make large investments, which are proven by the present framework unnecessarily. It's a big deal. At the same time, there is an attempt to codify legislation. We have essentially three-speed clinics: those operating under the 1992, 2000 legal framework and the current one that is very strict. For the articles, the remarks have been made. For Article 3, which provides for incompatibilities and incompatibilities, we have said that it is very strict. As far as the parties are concerned, it is even legally problematic and must be dealt with. We have proposed that the corresponding article on daily care units be adopted, which provides for a bit different things. You legislated. It would be nice to see it. We're waiting to see it. For Article 8, I said that it concerns a very small number of previous clinical trials which have been made with the old directives, which are functionally autonomous, but which also have another use in the same building, which has nothing to do with the clinical nor functional nor organic. I suggested the other day that it would be a good thing if there were a procedure in which the Ministry would have the final opinion that might exceptionally accept any diversions there. And finally Article 21 relates to penalties and is essentially the recasting of an article of 2001, but it has been amended in 2011 with regard to the professional status of universities. All he does is raise doubts and troubles in the way he is formulated. If there is a political will in the government to change the status of university doctors in terms of full and exclusive employment, it is important to discuss it in case of case-law and discussion. This is simply a fuss, as newer legislation and a number of judicial decisions make it unrelated to reality and powerless. However, the stimulation is, in my view, unimportant and should have been avoided here. As far as CEDEFOP is concerned, I have said many times and I will say it again today: in fact, this is a disguise without any particular meaning, and even a change of character by a legal person governed by private law to a legal person governed by public law is effectively inactivated by the fact that Article 54 provides for a specific procedure of direct awards, in derogation from the existing legislation on legal persons governed by public law. It can't be done otherwise in an organization like the CDC. That is why the regime should not have changed the status of a legal person under private law to a legal person governed by public law. I hear the Minister constantly mentioning the liquidation and resolution of the CEDEFOP. No objections. This means that the institutional framework has had the potential of both transparency and control and resolution. He didn't need to change the form and much more he didn't obviously need to change the name. All this is done for a very specific reason, so that Mr Paulakis can, as I have said at other times, say that he has made a big change, without actually doing absolutely anything. I have said before: Here in the CEDEFOP any problems - which existed - which were managed or transparent are not answered by this change. There is no provision that improves transparency and how the Agency's funds are managed, whether its name is CEDEFOP or its name is EAFRD. In this bill, there is not even an obligation to submit balance sheets and balance sheets. Ministerial decision will be tabled in a second year, providing for the way in which management is monitored. We are going from an opaque and problematic, possibly, CEDEFOP to an even worse EGE, in terms of corruption, in terms of transparency and the management of public money. Also, we go from an organization, which was well or badly equipped with a staff, which today has to pass "crisara" and will be a very long ballast and hostage of the Ministry through the Ministry's service council and, above all, we go to remove several of the scientists of CEDO. I have already heard you, Mr Colleague, say correctly that CEDEFOP, in the medical piece and in the surveillance of epidemics, has excellent scientists and excellent presence and history. You destroy the brand name, by changing the name and with the provision of the bill for the conversion of university positions in public health doctors of the RIS, essentially if it is - fortunately there are thirty months - repelled and driven to the exit of the ERCF most doctors who will not stay. Plus, there is a significant legal problem here. Public health doctors of the ERC are general doctors and doctors of medical work. There is no provision for any other infectious or hepatologists or any other of the many important specialities that the EGE or CEDEFOP will need to operate, as it is the same thing. There are neither academics nor individuals of unknown prestige here, nor people who have the potential and the scientific background to run from the level of manager and programme manager the necessary programmes of the CEDEFOP. They'll just be repulsed and gone. It is clearly an attempt to extort the doctors of CEDEFOP and replace them, "Master monstrosity" from whom. Now if you believe that with the full-time and exclusive employment scheme, which is imported into CEDEFOP or introduced if and when in thirty months' time, you will find doctors with the qualifications I described earlier, to operate the Agency, I would simply remind you of the shipwreck and the Waterlos of the TOMY, who do not find staff for exactly the same reason. Because the restraining work is repelled by most young doctors, most of them mature scientists. As far as ID is concerned, the National Neoplasms Foundation has said the other day that in principle it follows European standards as to how to set up and operate. And in spite of some of the individual reservations we have, in particular with regard to monitoring by the Ministry of the Administrative Council, we will support it and see it positive. The big question is how to create such a large, necessary, but very large Agency, with zero funding, without providing for a single drachma for 2019 of the General Accounting Office of the State, without any provision for the gradual even start of funding from the next year at all. It is a great wonder how this great process will work and how it will begin. I said what I had to say about the amendment to the Agency. It is worth wondering, because the Ministry's agency is changing to such an extent, which is not a year old. In essence, the Decree was of 2017. You have proven that you have a sense of humor throughout this process, with the establishment of an autonomous department of medical tourism in the Ministry. The government that has done absolutely nothing about medical tourism - which is a very important activity in my opinion, from which only profits Greece could have - has not been the least in the last four years. We've been paralyzed by the Autonomous Command at the Ministry. I wish it would work for the next, but the political will was lacking for medical tourism, plan and reinforcement of some investments, which had started already in 2013 and 2014 substantially abandoned by the foreigners who had come to invest in Greece in the sector, precisely because the regime was perfectly precarious, especially immediately after the achievements of the summer of 2015. I come to the big issue of e-government, which I have not heard, I repeat, not a single word. Everything goes through HICP. Procedures initiated by EOPYY, the responsibilities of EOPYY, the registries that EOPY has financed and started, the patient file and many other things, pass to IDES under the supervision of the Ministry. I'm not saying it's wrong. I'm saying what happened so far was wrong. We all know that a war is evolving literally, multi-level, party, intra-group, intra-government, private interest war that is united behind the two organisations, war between the two organisations and what we are discussing today and we are trying to get through to the zip is another episode of a match, which does not seem to be over. The management of digital information, essentially one of the most important parts of the governance of the ESS, which is digital health and digital governance, cannot be opportunityal or as a result of intra-group, intra-government, I do not know what other conflicts are. We want and we need a specific policy, which in a transparent and specific way and hierarchy will assume the development of digital tools, such as the electronic file patient and let it be retarded and outdated now, as are the necessary electronic patient registers, as is a series of digital functions. He'll take care of them in a certain way. The 'big data', the so-called big data, which, let me say the word 'pairdi' for many years now, has been a public resource, is the property of the Greek people. There have been huge figures in the last ten years that e-prescription for medicines, valuable for companies, even more valuable for the Ministry of Health. I am able to know that various tracks are circulating and managed by various opaque ways, and the only one who has not posted any data processed or processed is the Greek public in a transparent manner, as appropriate. I think this should be resolved. Minister, I expect to hear what the choices of your Government and the Ministry are about e-government and why the choices made have been made that, as you know very well - better than me - have erected a revolution in the EEA. I'm not saying it was right. Mostly why is it all of a sudden? It has been done in a way that is non-transparent and no specific policy is deleted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please for the two minutes I've lost. With regard to data protection, data protection, it is positive that a first-time post of data manager is recommended. There is a very long road, unfortunately, in Greece until we are able to comply with the European directives. It is, however, a very big issue. Sites of supervised use. I'll try to be a telegraph from now on. I said yesterday that we have been making the amendment since the summer. It has been said that a number of details are pending and that we will shortly proceed to legislate. The details that were pending for summer seem to be pending now, because it says they will be regulated by ministerial decision in second year. I cannot understand what it is that the government does not allow to legislate in a specific way and even spatially, if you want, but certainly the regulations and the way in which the centres operate. We are making the ominous prediction that they will not work soon and probably not by this government, either because they fear scientific reactions within public bodies or because there are reactions from residents. But that is something that absolutely needs to be done. We have tabled an amendment in the past few days which, in our view, improves this article and allows the municipality to be involved where it wishes and can do so - which I believe will be a great help - but also the involvement and assistance of NGOs dealing with the issue of supervised use of drugs and their treatment. Let us hope that at some point the really necessary areas of supervised administration will exist. The Minister has exceptionally mentioned the advantages and bibliographical documentation of the need for the creation of supervised sites. I couldn't agree more. The political will remains to begin to function. For eight months we have been hearing 'in a little'. I hope this time it will be the last time we will hear 'in a little'. As far as EOM is concerned, the measures are very positive. We have also tabled an amendment to reduce the involvement of the ERCF, which is apparent from the debate of all those involved in the transplants at the National Agency, which is causing delays. For tobacco, I have said from the outset that the smacking of all products of all steam and all tobacco products, both innovative and non-innovative, in the same category, is problematic. A moment ago - Minister, I would ask you to cross it and tell me - it seemed that there was news in the Greek press that the European Commission is asking for the freezing of Articles 96 and 97 and a three-month consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u30	Don't be in a hurry to adopt any articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u31	I told you to cross it and tell me. I told you I didn't adopt it. But I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u32	There's meaninglessness in everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u33	There are purposes everywhere, to all of us. In the Ministry, too, there are purposes and in the companies there are purposes. Life is full of purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u34	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u35	But I asked something specific on the basis of articles. There's nothing more I can do. I can't cross them right now. I asked Mr Manda before. The withdrawal of Articles 96 and 97 for consultation is, in my opinion, something to be done, as there are accusations, differentiations. Damage reduction policies are an important parameter, which is being discussed in some countries. We can talk about them, too. It would be advisable to apply the anti-smoking law on the use of any steaming or smoking product in public spaces and in closed spaces, but on the reduction of the damage to the tobacco group, this is another conversation, which we can do more specifically and more calmly. Article 124 is a little problem with regard to the way in which it is formulated. It can be seen from the first point of view that it allows separations and combinations. But it would be better if this were done with a greater debate and on the basis of an operational plan. We'd like to see it and talk about it again. I had tabled a number of comments to the committee - because I have exceeded my time by a long time, the President will start fighting me - on radiological leave, which does not include doctors, the grant of the unhealthy allowance only to TOM nurses. It is a series of proposals that we will expect to see in legislation - though and when they are tabled - and the amendments. I close by saying that we reserve the amendments. They came at the last minute. One of them, the Ministry of Interior, apart from being huge - it's a bill alone - comes to separate municipalities a minimum period of time, just weeks before the elections, without any reference to spatial planning. It doesn't make sense to open spatial planning. Basically, it makes some urgent divisions. First of all, we do not say that it should not be done or, on a case-by-case basis, should not be discussed. But the way in which it is done, with amendments by the Ministry of Health a few weeks before the elections, is very problematic and I think we should look at this very carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u36	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u37	Please, Mr. Lambroulis, would you like to speak in procedural terms? About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u38	For a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u39	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to return to what we have put at the start of the meeting, Mr President. Three speakers, three rapporteurs, three ministerial amendments. One shared us here in the Chamber, the other two electronics. Excuse me very much, but are we taking decisions at the Conference of Presidents, which is in government knowledge? It is. That is what Mr Voutsis said, that, at the beginning of - and in this all parties agreed - each meeting in plenary to discuss a bill will end the tabling of amendments. At the moment we have three amendments in the eye and I do not know whether the Ministry, the government, is thinking about tabling more. I would ask the Bureau to speak here. It is unacceptable, Mr President. We are not talking about amendments which will solve a serious problem. We're talking about amendments - mini bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u41	Do I have to answer that? Indeed, Minister, there is this decision at the Conference of Presidents, so you must keep it in mind so that matters are not raised in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u42	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u43	Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u44	Because you were present, at least two or three times at the Conference of Presidents, when it became what Mr Lambroulis said, you are now obliged not to accept the amendments. Cover completely the decisions of the President of Parliament, he was present, he agreed, he proposed, he spoke strictly about this practice. I have not taken into account that two amendments have been tabled electronically, said by the Vice-President, Mr Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u45	I'll tell you the numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u46	If that were the case, Mr President, the debate will not proceed now unless you say that these amendments are out of the question. We expect the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs to tell us by the end of the speeches. However, as far as the ministerial services are concerned, there is a perfect, unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, and with a very strict, critical view, Mr Voutsi. You are now in charge of implementing this decision of the Conference of Presidents, otherwise I do not know, Mr President, how easily we will go to the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u48	Please, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u49	I have tried to say and I have also asked Mr Loverdos personally for a debate that we have had a small tolerance until the end of the rapporteurs' speeches, because he knows that we are at a stage of very dense legislative work. He knows that in the particular legislation of the Ministry of Health he wants to do some positive - the Minister will explain it, I imagine - arrangements. It's just a matter of a few minutes, five minutes, thirteen minutes, to complete this process. I know, because there is an effort. Throughout this procedure with the General Accounting Office and all of this is a timetrip. What can we do? That's the reality. I'm telling you, honestly. In my opinion, we must not create a problem. We give this possibility until the end of the rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u50	No, we're not accepting it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u51	Okay, don't take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u52	It is unacceptable that what is being done is done!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u53	Okay. You are making the point of order. I don't think it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u54	You do it with your actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u55	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u56	Mr. Bright.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u57	Mr. Mada...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u58	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'll be done in half a second. In order to put us in fact on this, I propose - and on the basis of the number of speakers - that we go tomorrow for one, two hours in the morning, so that the rapporteurs and Parliamentary representatives, the representatives of the parties, can also be placed on the table for the amendments relating to comfort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u59	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u60	After all, we will be going tomorrow, because as the Secretariat informs me, the forty-three speakers are six hours, and we have both the eight rapporteurs and the Minister and the parliamentary representatives. So we'll go tomorrow. So that's not a reason. However, the question of the amendments tabled, despite the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, is a matter of government and Parliament. How does the House make decisions? The Conference of Presidents. When at the Conference, with the encouragement of the President himself, we take a decision, whatever reasons - even noble ones - they must be overruled. I'm not saying that you did something wicked - to God - but I say that this thing is unforgivable and does not allow us to work. Let the decision of the Conference of Presidents be implemented. Tomorrow he has another draft law and Thursday another one. The amendments can be easily tabled there. Why are you insisting today? You have no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u61	I don't think that makes it easier for anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u62	Minister, are you insisting on the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u63	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u64	Look, because it is a matter for the Conference of Presidents and I am also looking at the Rules of Procedure of the House and it is not clear, that is to say it does not state exactly what should be done - see that you too are a legal person - and you will allow me to hold a conference with the President on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u65	And let the Secretariat tell you the article of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u66	Keep up with the decisions you make.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u67	Mrs. Zaroulia, don't talk. If you want me to give you the floor, I'll give it to you, but don't talk like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u68	You make the decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u69	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u70	Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u71	Since you were also in the Conference of Presidents, the decision was clear: all the amendments to be tabled before the debate was opened. Yes or no? Was that a decision? You confirm it. Then why does it change every time? What is this thing all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u72	The question is as follows: because the Minister insists and invokes the Rules of Procedure, we will ask what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u73	I accept what you said. However, what the President of Parliament said - and if he hears it, let him say it - is that Parliament will not accept any amendment after the debate has begun. That's it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u74	We agree, but we shall discuss this with the President and we will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u75	Take responsibility and say we do not accept them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u76	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u77	Please, Mr Aivatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u78	Mr President, we are seeing the strong reaction from PASOK and the Communist Party of Greece to the multitude - indeed - of the amendments tabled by the Government. Such reactions were not found when the Prespecies Agreement was passed, which was awarded the sacred name of Macedonia. They are purely hypocritical, and I believe that some of the amendments may be voted for, or vote for,'represents'. The Golden Dawn in any case and for many reasons that I shall analyse when I go up to the Step, will vote against the draft law in whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u79	We shall therefore proceed with the next rapporteur, Mr Aivatidis. So come to Stepma, Mr Aivatidis, to speak as rapporteur now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is indeed a very extensive bill containing many different articles. As Golden Dawn, right from the outset, we declare that we shall relentlessly vote against both the outset and the articles. This is because we do not want to legitimise a government which has an artificial majority that has emerged through a process of political invasion, namely a resalt in different parties, so that these parties disappear parliamentaryally. Under no circumstances will we legalise such a government which, by means of the Prespecies Agreement, gave Macedonia's sacred name to the Skopje. That for us is definitive and irrevocable casus belli with the government. A third reason - which I mentioned as an alternative - is that the health ministers, Mr Blondos and Mr Paulakis, refuse stubbornly, unconstitutional, anti-parliamentary and anti-democratic - if you like - to answer questions raised by Members of the Golden Dawn concerning major issues of public health. They know - I believe - but recently a new article, 71A, on the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the grounds of innocence and the possibility of one affected - which, through public statements of a public authority, implys that he is guilty - is now invoked by this particular article to bring an action against those who circumvent the presumption of innocence. The main ministers do not respond to all the Members of the Golden Dawn or rather respond to stereotypes, that for reasons of parliamentary and constitutional order and because there is a trial - damaged, of course - they are refusing to answer. This is a public declaration of a public authority, and it is, of course, the definition - of the possibility that Members of the Golden Dawn now have to raise claims, civil claims, against the public, because of the fault of the main ministers. But the main ministers should be aware that it can take place in a second year in reverse treatment by the public at the expense of them as natural persons. This will, of course, take place after some time, when the main ministers will no longer be Ministers, they will not even be parliamentarians, because SYRIZA has completely lost what is called the 'freeze'. First of all, I shall refer to the most important of the articles of this draft law in Article 91. In Article 91, therefore, an innovative solution has been introduced to deal with, reduce the damage to drug addicts, a record of heroin, with surveillance sites. I have conducted as a coroner more than a thousand experts for the diagnosis of dependence on drugs, more than a hundred in penitentiary institutions, whether we are talking about Korydallus, whether we are talking about St Stephanos or Corfu Prison. So I am very well aware of this issue. Indeed, there are about a hundred twenty such centers around the world. No death has been reported in these centres. However, it is not possible for the government to condone this unspeakable war on drugs. And he's used to it. For what? To reduce the damage. With who? Drug dealers, even negligent. I don't notice you dope. But this legislation leads right there. In a conspiracy of the Greek state with drug dealers who will increase their profits. That's for granted. For what? For these centres, drug trafficking will blossom further. Because drug dealers will try to correct - I say in the medical sense, I am understood by Mr Xanthos - these centres and do so in order to continue their work, the trafficking of drugs. This article must be withdrawn immediately. It cannot be voted on by the Greek Parliament. Anyone who votes in favour of it has a code of practice with drug dealers. It's very simple. There is a possibility from the Greek state of prevention and repression. Here is an act, an instrument that is an insulating instrument with the problem, perpetuation and possibly enlargement. In no case should it be voted on. In addition to the clinical incidents I had investigated, I have investigated hundreds of deaths in the necrotom bank, ladies and gentlemen, victims of this undeclared war. Please, I know that the voice of the nationalist movement is not heard. Okay. You're neo-communists. I'll take it. From that point of view, this is a scientific point of view and I am urging it. This article needs to be withdrawn. So SYRIZA, who had promised that by an article he would abolish the memorandum, came almost four years later to abolish with an article CEDEFOP and replace it with EGE, the National Public Health Agency. But the modus operaandi is the same. Why? Article 54 allows direct awards without publication. And the independent public procurement authority has already reacted. In Article 64, the National Hellenic Institute of Neoplasms is established. I told the Minister that it would be advisable to add the word 'poor Neoplasms', because it is well known that there are too many neoplasms that are good. In Corfu, which, with amendment today, will attempt to partition the municipality, has not solved the major waste problem. It is precisely this problem that the Institute for Malignant Neoplasms has to deal with. Why? There's a supersaturated HYTAD in Templelon position in Corfu. There, therefore, in the field of automation I have carried out, in the political capacity of course, I have seen that there is a tube with which biogas is released free of charge into the atmosphere. It is well known that large studies have been carried out in Latsio, Italy, where there is a clear link between even an excellent organized and functional HYTA with lung cancer. There is increased prevalence of cancer and will be further increased in Corfu. This also applies to Templon, the waterline beyond the atmosphere is also polluted, but also to the recently licensed, illegally, HYTAS - Lefkimis CHY. There is, then, a waterproof horizon that is contaminated. The partitioning of the municipality therefore does not lead to a solution to the problem. I'm afraid he'll intensify it. In our view, this fragmentation is a mistake if the issue of waste management in Corfu is not resolved first. It escapes today's meeting, but the Golden Dawn in Corfu has proposed concrete and realistic solutions to the problem. Article 89 shall remove the competence of the OIE for biocidal products, rodenticides and helminthicides, solutions for trimming. It's wrong. We believe that the Ministry should reserve a co-responsibility with the EOF for these chemicals, biocidal products. We also call for Article 96 to be withdrawn by which the classic smoke with atmospheric, classic cigarette with electronic cigarette is equated. It's completely unscientific. There are huge studies. I think the President-in-Office has referred to such studies at the moment, Mr Cremastino. This equation is wrong and will in general contravene general health, public health. Article 127 provides for immunity, an urban outlaw for members of the Board of Directors of the EBRD. I fear that this provision is rather a defeat in photography and is therefore attempting to relieve responsibility - civil claims, i.e. - members of the Board of Directors of an EAFRD or of many sectors of the EAFRD that are potentially responsible. In Article 138 there is this paradox. It concerns the countryside service for doctors and is proposed to become or be classified as a barren area Amphissa, the capital of Fokida and Canalaki, 45 km away from Preveza. It's paradoxical. Of course, we agree that doctors in Samothraki and the Paxos should be classified as barren. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In conclusion, I would like to recall a saying of a man who many in the current government admire and have declared his enthusiasts, Lenin. Mr. Kontonis, let's say, has said a lyninist and that Stalin is a right-wing difference. He had declared it as the Minister of Justice. It is of particular importance. Lenin had said leftism was a child disease of communism. It's not exactly confirmed for SYRIZA's case. Indeed, many of SYRIZA had been nursed in the Communist Party. We believe that they display a neoliberal leftism in their politics. Because when they do a whole process for private clinics, while they claim to support public health, clearly there is a neoliberal mutation in the policy of neo-bolsheviks who are today ruling our homeland. I have to say that the Greek Parliament must refuse to establish these drug spots under Article 91. This article must not be passed under any circumstances. It'll be a major government slip. Repeat, I don't hire a douche. By negligence very likely. Golden Dawn continues to be the pillar of the national Orthodox system within and outside Parliament. We believe that the people will support the Golden Dawn as the final victory, which will indeed be a "Golden Dawn" for Hellenism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u81	Mr President, we are waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u82	We'll answer you. We need to get rid of the list of rapporteurs and then we'll put the matter down. Don't cut the process, because it's unfair to those who follow. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. As I said in my speech at the beginning of the sitting - I would also like to address you because there has been a change of Vice-Presidents in the Bureau - I am asking for time tolerance. So as far as the bill is concerned, I would like to say the following. This is a bill that has, however, rules and regulations that define our position in principle, are burdened with the voting criterion, which is why we will vote against the draft law as a whole. Of course, we will be voting on articles in the vote that will follow tomorrow. Of course, these arrangements which are a criterion for our overall implementation in the bill are: Firstly, the arrangements for modernising the institutional framework, as mentioned through private clinics. By these provisions, the Government removes problems which exist in the legislative framework of private clinics, so that each operator chooses to what provision it suits him to be subject to his business, to simplify the procedure required to open, close, modify the business and, in general, to create a favourable business environment. In other words, the Government uncovered that it was the best and most effective support of business groups marketing the needs of the people for care and rehabilitation, proving that the announcements of public health support are air words, since it strengthens its business characteristics and modernises the conditions for the operation and development of the private sector. With the policy of state cuts in public health units, subselling, major shortages in customer equipment for health entrepreneurs, while coming through the bill, it provides the appropriate tools for exploiting clientele in areas that expect to have greater profits. It is obvious that, when it comes to measures that can improve the situation of public units, it refers to the vague future, but when it comes to capital measures, it brings them to a solution immediately, first of all, like the bill - a broom. Secondly, the establishment of the National Agency for Public Health, a legal person governed by public law, which replaces the CEDEFOP that is repealed. That is to say, a public body with even stronger characteristics of private-sector operating criteria, linked to the market with the various NGOs and social corporate responsibility, i.e. business groups, is being created. This results from the draft law, for example in relation to its financing - Article 53 - that it will not be charged with the state budget, but rather that it will contribute - i.e. the legal person - to the state budget. Another example is the wording for the origin of the revenue through research, development or educational programmes and their assurance will come from the use of those research programmes or as referred to in Article 52 describing the responsibilities of the EGE's Board of Directors, which will sign contracts on behalf of third parties. Another example is the Research Fund Special Account - Article 55 - through which business with companies and research centres will be done. Thus, the main source of revenue will be business, while the State budget will be financed with amounts that are not specified. At the same time, this organisation becomes a tool for overthrowing industrial relations since recruitment is planned under project contracts and others. The sustainable functioning of the EGE will thus be determined by the development of their business plans, which will define options, direction, scientific strategy, limits on scientific actions. Therefore, it will not be the people's needs in the field of public health, but the private interests which will define the organisation's priorities as well. Thus, a description of the purpose of the new organisation - promoting health, preventing diseases, increasing life expectancy and others - is nothing but a wish, a fat word, a report of ideas, since government policy, class inequalities and exploitation produce daily and reproduce the causes of diseases, occupational diseases, disability, and undermine the health of workers. Of course, nothing has to do with the operation of a public health agency which, in order to play its role, has to rely on adequate state health structures at all levels in an exclusive state and free health system. Here even the influenza vaccine is not provided by the state for free to all. For whom, then, does the government really describe in the bill as public health? Thirdly, the establishment of the National Institute of Neoplasms. One would not disagree with the establishment of such a scientific centre as to contribute to research, prevention and treatment of cancer. But such a state official should also correspond to a state health system developed throughout Greece at all levels with adequate and modern equipment, with full staff, developing state infrastructure to support patients and their families, a system that meets the needs of research, prevention of treatment and rehabilitation, supporting the particular needs of end-stage patients. Such correspondence, not only does it exist, but the state of the public health system, which should be the body implementing this plan, is constantly exacerbated by the well-known results of long-term waiting lists from examination and diagnosis to treatment of cancer patients. In fact, how will the prevention be done with an inadequate primary health system traded and, in particular, in its diagnostic laboratory, as well as with a commercialised secondary level of public health, inside and outside the public hospital? Will this essential problem be solved by setting up, for example, the National Institute of Neoplasms? From the issues of funding, staffing and the pertinent position of all kinds of programmes that EOPYS wants, it seems that this piece of legislation, this legal person, is a necessary urban modernisation in the treatment of cancer, but not on the part of the people, but, in accordance with the guidelines and strategies of the European Union, it is a factor costing state budgets, public health systems, lost working hours, it is a problem for productivity and the competitiveness of capitalist development. That is why the Member States, too, are taking measures that do not infringe the cost-benefit rule in accordance with the above criteria, while at the same time the form of the institute, as a legal person of private law, with the tools of flexibility, financing which do not affect the state budget, but which gives it revenue, are elements that mark the establishment of an Agency that operates as an undertaking for profit. Thus, in the name of treating cancer such an institution, with these specifications and guidelines, will be directly linked to the research business groups, in order to sell research, studies and others, in order to increase its profits. Likewise, private companies have the same need from a central staff at national level or institute to allocate and coordinate the various programmes. The implementation of programmes which the Institute is required to implement is nothing but the well-known policy of the European Union and the Government of individual responsibility, since the State is mainly limited to measures which cost little, for example, information, such as smoking, exercise, healthy lifestyles, when it condemns the people of Western Attica, here, to live with HYTA cancer, which, as it said, would be abolishing but which plans to extend it to a region where cancer, according to the figures, is three times more than that of other regions. Fourthly, the amendment of the Ministry of Health's body concerns the modernisation of the state mechanism for the most effective implementation of this anti-popular government policy. The address, for example, of medical tourism is, in fact, about state adaptation and organisation to facilitate the activities of business groups in this area. Fifth point, individual electronic file and the EEAS' prescribing indicators. For me in the individual electronic file we consider it necessary and necessary to use technology to facilitate the provision of modern, integrated and free services to prevent the treatment and rehabilitation of the people. But the basic thing for us is what is being pursued through this provision on the individual electronic file. Clearly, this is a second amendment to this measure, which has been linked from the outset to the so-called reform of primary health care, which is essential to the implementation of uniform and minimum health services for all of them, with a drastic reduction in state and insurance expenditure. It is necessary to modernise state measures in order to implement and control the proper compliance of this anti-population policy. This was also the case in the first legislature in 2014 and in the 2017 amendment. This amendment now clearly introduces the specific objectives, such as ensuring the funds allocated to health care, the control of expenditure, etc. It is a piece of legislation that seeks to shield the minimum benefit policy and which is coming to help to shape even cheaper workers by reducing so-called non-wage costs. Besides, there is already practical experience in patients with modern electronic applications of caps, cuts, supplements to medical laboratory tests, treatments, medicines, health material and go by saying. There is also experience of using it, in order to harmonise scientists with the anti-grassroots objectives of the government, to how much cheaper patients will cost, in fact, against a penalty, rather than doctors working solely on the basis of providing all the modern means for patients, but also for healthy people before they get sick. Sixth point, prescribing indicator of EEAS. What about this provision? The mechanism to monitor prescriptions for doctors and pharmacists carrying out prescriptions of the EEAS is even stronger. This is a mechanism which contributes to the reductions and withdrawal of the medical criterion in prescribing for the cost-benefit criterion. Seventh point, the electronic registration of referral medical examinations. The Government seeks not only to conceal the tragic lack of gynecologists in primary health care but also not to proceed with the recruitment required by permanent and adequate staff, in this case gynecologists, to meet needs in the logic of cost reduction. Therefore, the role of doctors by entrusting prescribing pregnancy tests, PPA tests, etc., in mid- and infertiles, is being replaced, which is not only unscientific, but also anachronistic as a perception that can have a negative effect on the health of the people. It is similar to the promotion of 'home birth' practice as a modern conception that actually restores the practices of the last century with the known risks to pregnant women and infants, as well as the theory of self-diagnosis and self-restraint promoted by the European Union, because patients will not be charged with units and personnel of health services. All of this is the result of the strategic reduction in state costs, which, with so-called modern phrases, are enslaved by serious anachronisations that constitute regression. Indeed, this change, which is indeed a distortion, is called by the government through the draft law on the upgrading of maternity services, and is it also a reason to improve the quality of the services provided by promoting - what? - an anachronistic measure. The role of doctors, the gynecologists, the prevention, diagnosis and treatment, in our view, cannot under any circumstances be replaced by midwife, as it is in sectors with different education and competence, and only cooperation between the two professions can work for the benefit of the people. Eighth point, responsibilities of the Pan-Hellenic Society of Physical Therapists. We consider it necessary to train physicotherapists in order to monitor the development of their science, modern applications. But under this provision, in the name of post-education, policy is being promoted which undermines undergraduate education and, at the same time, an increasing part of it is being transferred to postgraduate. Physico-therapists to acquire them force them to pay preoccupiedly to the firms set up in the form of institutes and which substitute for the state responsibility that had to exist and free of charge for post-training. Thus, a part of the physicotherapists will not be able to respond, and will not be able to obtain the required and mandatory molecules, so that differentiation between physicotherapists is widened, that is to say, to be linked to the limitation of physiotherapists which can apply according to their molecules. The widening of the responsibilities of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Physical therapists is therefore a tool for implementing this policy and for increasing the inequality between the industry. We believe it is the responsibility of the state to finance and ensure the upgrading of undergraduate education, which must constantly be modernised and, at the same time, to ensure conditions and free post-training in general for physico-therapists. Ninth point. The articles concerning the National Transplant Organisation may be the articles which in the most embodied way illustrate the depth of the sepsis and the reactionaryness of the system that the appropriate government has of course undertaken to deal with. The cost criterion in this sensitive sector is undisclosed by reference to consumers and invoicing services of a very high degree of altruism. And here the government - a trader - does not hold any pretexts, what remains is to introduce any month discounts for people whose lives depend on transplantation. Tenth point. As far as the sites of supervised use are concerned, the Government is coming to complete another anti-popular mission of a matter that the debate on its introduction and implementation has been initiated for years by previous PASOK governments, the New Democracy. So nothing but accidental is the convergence of all the other parties on the serious problem of drug dependence, since everyone agrees with the strategic guidelines of the European Union and this issue. This is a form of drug dependence management, in the context of the policy of damage reduction, and which is presented as a solution on the basis that toxic dependence is not confronted. So what's left of it? Management to mitigate its consequences. And precisely of the most serious issues, but also the results of this policy, are, firstly, the undermining of the incentive towards the treatment of thousands of people, secondly, the attempt not only of influence, but of manipulation and mutilation of consciences and, at the same time, the downturn of the reactions to a complex multifactoric problem in order to be accepted as a natural phenomenon with which users and society should not only become familiar, but to learn to live. Behind these scientific analyses, really, do we not know - doctor I am, there are several doctors - that there are also studies on order or you don't know that? You know them very well. So, behind these analyses and studies, the reality is that, despite the huge problems of sub-funding and sub-station, the curative programs have to show enviable effectiveness by confirming that rehab is possible if there are the necessary modern public and free structures with the required staffing and funding. The invocation by both the government and during the debate in the committee - European experience shows exactly the opposite, and we have told you in committee too. These are the examples of the Netherlands and Switzerland, which alone, from the data from the Dutch Government itself, does not result from anywhere in reducing the use or reduction of heroin death. On the other hand, we have a steady increase in heroin use and at the same time the data show that due to these structures in the Netherlands there is no tendency for users to join a treatment programme. Similarly, in Switzerland, as I said before, the authorities had to shut down such a place in the Zurich Park, which in a few years had turned into hell of the living dead. We therefore consider that a new dangerous step is taking on the basis of the dominant policy of so-called risk reduction management. So, for twenty years the PASOK, New Democracy and now SYRIZA have been reducing the damage, following these directions of the European Union. But instead of apologising for increasing the problem of drugs, which is the result of this policy, they are also being presented as sensitive, condemning those who are actually dependent on the drugs being committed. In this way they undermine the struggle for rehab, effectively legalise the trafficking and trafficking of drugs, addict our people to reasonably hide the problem so that it does not spoil the tourist front of the city of Athens and possibly elsewhere. With the bill you will follow up the law of PASOK-New Democracy, granting the legislative authorisation to individuals for the authorisation of setting up, as mentioned, and operating consultative stations, centres - therapists of physical and mental decomposition and social reintegration, or other relevant non-profit units. As for the JET and the OKANA, which are facing huge problems of subsidization and subsistence, their government is tightening up their economic dolphins, conducive to labour relations, as it brings arrangements for the recruitment of subsidiarys for six months - twelve months, who will be paid by the demolished funds of the agencies and should manage their own employment insecurity, together with an increase in the relapses caused by the lack of permanent staff. But also for people who manage to reach the door of the "solid" therapeutic programs and win the battle of rehab, the government, instead of social reintegration with permanent and stable work, proposes as a way out the creation of Social Partners for Integration, where they will be rewarded according to their productivity. In all this, therefore, this reflects the full alignment of SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK, with the inhuman policy of managing drug dependence, reducing state costs, reducing and degrading the free rehabilitation programmes, overthrowing labour relations and the narcocultura premium, all the things that make up the strategic direction of the European Union. And it is precisely the fight against all drugs, the fight for prevention, treatment, rehab and reintegration that should not go through this new curse condemning the swamp of dependence on thousands of our fellow people. So these ten, basically in our opinion, are the main criteria for voting against the bill. Of course, as far as the amendments are concerned, tomorrow, obviously, at the sitting, Mr President, we will have the opportunity to put them on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are coming to legislate on a bill in the important area of health, which I think is of paramount importance to us all, especially at a time of cruel and protracted crisis where our people have a real and serious need for reliable health structures. The Ministry of Health brings us this bill - a vacuum - after a year and a half, which we again remembered then promised a lot about primary health care, namely to include a large bill of about fifty articles in a series of regulations, some of which, as I mentioned in the committee, could also be separate legislations. The forty-six articles, therefore, of this draft law, the multi-project, attempt to modernise the operating framework of private clinics, to set up a National Public Health Agency to replace CEDEFOP, to set up a National Institute for Neoplasms, the National Patent Registers, new departments for Medical Tourism and Data Protection in the Ministry of Health, but also the end in cosmetics, to regulate the circulation of unnicotined electronic cigarettes, to update the method of prescribing drugs, and finally to create surveillance sites for high-risk users. It is therefore a large number of issues that this draft law deals with. We hope that this bill does not have the fate of the previous SYRIZA government legislation and some of the attempted reform efforts, which are in principle seen positive, to do for the good of our fellow citizens. So let's go to the main lines of the bill. In Part I of the bill up to Article 47, it is attempting to streamline the context of the operation of the clinics. As we have presented to the committee in detail, we believe that it is generally in the right direction, if we take away, of course, our objections and our own, but also those relating to the risks arising from the regulation under Article 23 on a minimum number of beds. However, in Part II, which has the title "Recommendation of legal persons with a public health function", we have important attitudes, which are identified, on the one hand, in Articles 48 to 63, concerning the abolition of the "sinner", as you said until yesterday, and the establishment of the National Public Health Agency in its place, as well as in Articles 64 to 80, concerning the establishment of a National Institute of Neoplasms, in place of the structure which was intensified as Management of the CEDEFOP. In both cases, ladies and gentlemen, especially you who belong to the government, cannot convince anyone that you are trying to make a serious reform effort. If we saw such an intention on your part, we in the Centro Association, which are the political area with deep confidence in reforms as the only way of at last redefining our economy and the overall picture, so that our country can survive, would be successful. Instead, what we see and see is that, once again, your motive is to create great shapes, with different names. However, for us, the only goal will be to meet your micro-party needs and purposes. As far as CEDEFOP is concerned, you are now turning it from a legal person of private law into a legal person of public law, but with a guarantee of self-interest, since you are arming it with a special account in the management of its finances, that is, procedures that are flexible, except for public accounting, under the strict embrace of the Minister, once again, as all matters seem to be regulated by a series of ministerial decisions, both of the special account and of the staff of the new agency, but also of the establishment and of bodies. This is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. I mention this in almost every speech, since almost every draft law we see within its provisions that important issues are dealt with by ministerial decisions. The Union of Centres strongly opposes any regulation which is left to the political leadership in question. That is why we cannot agree on this in any way. The House has legislative power. The way you're coming to legislate, you're bypassing it. At this point, I would also like to denounce that you are not just bypassing legislative power, but also by the independent authorities. In this draft law you ignored and bypassed the Privacy Authority. In personal data laws, the opinion of the Privacy Authority is legally mandatory. In this respect, Article 82 concerns the data protection officer, Article 83 establishes and operates National Patent Registers and Article 84 of the Personal Electronic Health File. In other words, we are not talking about trivial articles, but about articles of major importance that regulate the hard core of the protection of citizens' health data. We are now called upon to legislate without having the opinion of the most competent authority. Why? From ignorance or do you want the independent authorities to have no reason to speak, the independent voices, which are either from constitutionally regulated authorities or from judicial authority? The articles I mentioned before, that is, 82, 83 and 84, have a positive sign, but we cannot vote for them in principle. It's a big mistake what you've done. We respect and defend the institutional role of the independent authorities, which is central to ensuring that the executive does not always be dissatisfied against the citizens. We respect the role of the Constitution itself in the Data Protection Authority for the protection of citizens' personal data. Therefore, we cannot engage in what you are bringing us with this draft law. Speaking now on personal data, we are still waiting - late, that is to say, but hopefully at least at the last minute to see it - the law implementing the general regulation which has entered into force since last year in May, and in particular on 25 May 2018. We really expect when you bring him to the House. Once again you will make the mistakes made by the governments of the past. I do not know if you are aware - I hope you are aware of this - that the European Commission has initiated the procedure against Greece for its non-compliance and for the imposition of fines, which in many cases we have seen are unthinkable. You have also mentioned the great needs of the state to pay fines that existed from previous governments. Unfortunately, you too will be inherited if you continue not to legislate in time. But now we are also going to the other major reform of this draft law, the establishment of a National Institute of Neoplasms. Why are you turning the Department of the National Neoplasms Archive into a legal person governed by private law? If it didn't work according to its purposes, would it now work? What's it gonna change? We see that you want to create new jobs, not for the common good, but to favour your own people. After all, we have heard many of the institutions express their objections to this issue. I am sure you know, as I told you, that problems are dealt with on the substance rather than on the types. If a service was not effective, we are looking for the reasons that led it there and in no case do we make it bigger and then dress it up with a cloak to cover the problems and consider that we are just done. Because what you're going to do is bring it over and over to deal with the future. How, then, will the glorious plans work without resources at a time of cruel austerity? Unfortunately, we have not come out of the memorials clearly, as you wish to say. You see what the objections of the lenders are, that they still have a say, and unfortunately I think for a long time that will be the case. So how do you think that you do something bigger, without any serious planning, will you come and give solutions to such important issues that really afflict Greek society? Going now to the last part of the bill, that is to say the other provisions relating to Articles 81 to 147, as we also said in the committee responsible, the Centro Association is looking positively at the functioning of National Patients Registers, but we are still waiting for a ministerial decision. These issues should be resolved immediately. I also told the committees that we should have new technologies as a tool to give immediate and holistic solutions to all the problems that we can deal with in this way. Therefore, this is a good thing, but it is being re-established under the terms of a good ministerial decision. So we come to see whether it will finally work and whether it will be you who will give a proper solution. We are therefore only here to check what will happen and not to legislate once again. The same applies to the individual medical records and alignment with the new provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. Also, we are very sceptical about the need to regulate the increase in remuneration to the alternate members of the Medically Helped Reproduction Authority. However, we are also coming to the provisions on pharmaceutical legislation and expenditure, where we are in any case conducive to derogating the texts and the supremacy - again - of the Minister for Health to determine the remuneration of the appraisers of medicines. But, above all, for the critical public health asset, we must insist that, for the choice of generic medicines, there may not be even an evaluator instead of the two existing ones. We also have reservations after hearing the operators about the retroactiveness of the fee on cosmetics, which affects small businesses, which, to us, form part of the torso of the Greek economy. So we're not going to solve our problems. By burdening small businesses we will not be able to solve the demographic, which has been discussed today, nor will we be able to keep our people here, in our country, nor will we be able to convince people to create a family, ensuring them the necessary things to live and create. Only in this way will we be able to solve the problems of our country, not by further burdening the already burdened Greek citizen. The regulation on controlled drug use sites does not convince us. In an attempt to try a favoured - supposedly - state to tackle this important issue with an integrated proposal, we would say that pyrotechnics again with many ministerial decisions is coming to create more problems than those that are trying to solve. It would also be a omission not to mention the sloppiness and haste with which you are legislating, which is forcing you, in times of strict budgetary discipline, to legalise expenditure. We're vertically opposed to this. Finally, I think that I must make a special reference to the multi-powered centres to deal with the crisis of drug users and alcoholism. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat that the problems are tackled by rational use of the existing resources and resources and not by the creation of heavy new structures which will also burden the budget with new recruitments without any result. In conclusion and in summary, the Central Association cannot vote in favour of a multi-brand plan which seems to be dealing with a number of issues from which it is very little trying to deal with holisticly or at least according to the way it announces them. Instead, in addition to the positive provisions that we have analysed and mentioned, the only thing that guarantees, and this bill, is the complexity of bodies and bodies of doubtful efficiency, burdening the budget and giving a tone of election. We cannot accept such legislation, as we cannot in any case accept such a large number of amendments when we have to decide without even having time to consider what you are bringing us. That's what you've been doing in recent years, and that's very sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Argostoli High School "Issif Momferatos". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Tell students and students that they are attending a health ministry bill meeting. The debate is then held tomorrow, the vote will take place and the bill will become the law of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been given amendments. I'll let you know about the procedure a little bit. Today we'll go by 00.00 p.m. and tomorrow morning we'll continue by 14.00 p.m. I think there is time to study the amendments. Therefore, the issue raised by Mr Loverdos is resolved in this way and I think we can then go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u87	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u88	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. For reasons of order, I would like to ask you whether this is the result of your communication with the President of the Parliament or whether it is your own initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u90	Look, as you know, the decisions of the Conference of Presidents are being placed in the judgments of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u91	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u92	The unanimous decision you mentioned - and I was in - that was taken was to indicate in a way to the Government that the amendments should come before the start of the debate. And if you remember also in a previous debate that happened to be chaired, because amendments were tabled at the end of the debate shortly before the vote, I had asked the Minister to withdraw and come back with the next bill. Such a possibility does not exist. Time is very dense politically. And I think that the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Constitution, when there is dissatisfaction on this matter, allow the House to decide. So if you insist, the House will decide. If not, we shall proceed with the procedure I said, that is to say until today at 00.00 hours in the evening and tomorrow morning until 14.00 in the morning. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u93	Mr President, I asked you whether this was your own initiative or whether you have contacted the President of Parliament. To your previous colleague, Mr Cremastino, when we raised the issue with Mr Lambroulis of the JRC, he said that you would consult as a Bureau. So that's the product of the deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u94	The president agrees, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u95	So I repeat my point of order as well as as most - but I am obliged - to read the article of the Constitution, because you referred to it. It is in Rule 74, paragraph 5, which states that additions or amendments of Ministers shall only be discussed if they have been submitted at least three days before the start of the debate in plenary. This with the logic of interna corporis has been overcome. It's not applicable, that is. Because no one can assess and judge what the House is doing and what decisions it takes, this constitutional provision added in 2001 to avoid all this parliamentary anomaly, is ultimately not applicable. In its context, however, the debate - which you were here too - took place at the Conference of Presidents for the many years. It was indeed a positive development - the one you referred to and it is also recent - where on your own initiative you asked a minister to take his amendments back. And - if I remember - he took them. Mr President, I would remind you that he has brought the President of this House - who has closed our debate - to say that it is also a matter for the House and for the parties and for the representatives of the parties - all of us - to press for this process to be followed. That's what we're doing today. We hope that a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents will be respected. You are obviously right to say that, in disagreement and now, this House is deciding. That's right, as you say. However, because, as I have said before today, it is a matter of parliamentary-Government relations and it is not a simple procedural issue, the government voluntarily violates the Rules of Procedure, based on the majority of it. Please rethink it. Please ask the ministers to bring these matters into a draft law tomorrow. Because, Mr President, we have a draft law tomorrow afternoon and Thursday. So there is some comfort to the ministers that they want to pass through, but not, in a way, to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u96	I've already made an effort if they can get through to the bill tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Unfortunately, it is not possible. So let's move on. First of all, we should give the Minister for Health Mr Xanthos the floor for some legislative improvements. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u97	We are tabling a package of several legislative improvements. We have taken note of the debate that took place in the Committee on Social Affairs at this time. We have taken into account the hearing of bodies. And I think it really is a significant improvement in the wording of the bill. We are starting from Article 3, which makes a legislative change - you will see it - which relates to criminal obstacles. Rule 124 is deleted, for which some colleagues have argued, because it has indeed created misinterpretations. And there is also a modernization in terminology, especially in Annex II on private clinics, based on the suggestions of the National Atomic Energy Commission and the Ionian Commission. We're filing them, you see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u98	Let me say a word on the subject of the amendments. I fully understand the requirement for colleagues to be able to prepare and study amendments in good time, which come to the bills. I say, however, that we sometimes need to look at the substance and want to make it easier. Obviously the requirement of the Conference of Presidents is respected and the will of all of us to observe this process as much as possible. Many times for objective reasons, for reasons of delay in the approval process by the General Accounting Office of the State and by the relevant Ministries, there is an objective difficulty in tabling the amendments in good time. In a bill of forty - seven articles we have ten ministerial amendments. We do not have a rain, which is changing - let alone - the correlations. And let me say that some of these amendments have been tabled. For example, the amendment on the new architectural invoicing of medicines has been discussed in the Special Parliamentary Committee on the Pharmaceutical Strategy of the country and these have been explained. We don't surprise anyone. I would also say that most of the amendments condense interventions by operators, with which the Ministry has been consulted all along. It is an improved character both for pharmacies and for the enhancement of the ECHR’s hospital pharmaco-practice expenditure and for the National Haemodynamic Center and the extension of the Convention on Molecular Blood Control, which was particularly cost-effective for the public and the EKAB, which resolves certain critical issues of a service-related nature related to staff and its work rights and to mobile primary care units, which we want to establish and intervene in difficult places where populations have difficulty in moving and easily accessible to public structures and the issues of the CES and medical training of specialists and their examinations. These are crucial issues. They are not amendments which are trying in some way to put some negative provisions in place. These are positive interventions, which have been launched all this time by the Ministry, and we unfortunately did not have time to incorporate them into the body of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u99	Thank you, Minister. We shall give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Haritsis, to develop the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u100	Mr President, is the motion over? Is the majority expressed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u101	It's over, yeah. We will give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Haritsis, to develop the amendment to redefining the administrative structure of the municipalities of Corfu, Kefalonia, Kozani, Lesvos and Samos. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. I will need a bit of your tolerance and Parliament's tolerance in terms of time because it is a long and complex amendment so that I can develop its thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know very well, the administrative division of the country was shaped by Law 3852/2010, which reformed the whole organisation at the two levels of Government and redefined the boundaries of the authorities. The "KALIKRATS" programme aims to restructure the decentralised administration on a larger scale so that, on the one hand, organisational rationalisation can be achieved, and on the other hand, by transferring and centralizing human and economic resources to larger structures, to strengthen the administrative and financial self-government. Today, therefore, the country is divided into seven decentralised administrations, thirteen regions and three hundred twenty-five municipalities. The eight years that have elapsed since the implementation of the "Callicratic" programme safely allow an account of the functionality, effectiveness and the individual failures of this administrative restructuring. In the present regulations, therefore, the provision in question is attempting to address certain borderline cases through the redefinition of the administrative limits of primary OTAs resulting from a merger and which, as it has proved, in practice over the entire eight-year period, have rendered non-functional to put their sustainability at risk, but also to significantly undermine the lives of the inhabitants of those areas at risk. Locality, i.e. the self-government of local societies, is the protected core of the relevant constitutional provisions and therefore the self-government structures cannot tend, in terms of size, to higher levels of selfgovernment. This in one way is the problem that we identified in various regions of the country, where hydro-headed municipalities were created that were unable to respond to the service of all residents of a region. A criterion in the decision to reconstruct the Local Government in any case, whether it relates to combinations or to the division of existing municipal schemes, must be the most appropriate and effective management of local affairs for the purpose of respecting the constitutional principle of equality of services provided by LAGs to the citizens of the whole territory. This is also the basic criterion for the specific arrangements that we are bringing today, since it was first decided by the local communities themselves as much as it was, and also by the thorough examination of the individual elements and sizes of each municipality in question that the combination essentially annulled the capacity of whole regions to organise and manage themselves. There were specific sub-criteria on the basis of which the relevant decisions were taken. First of all, people's criteria. Secondly, social criteria, such as the average size of the household, the educational indicators, the percentage of foreigners in that municipality. Thirdly, economic criteria, criteria also geographically, such as shape, accessibility, infrastructure networks in the region. There have been development criteria, the structure of the local economy, the existence of educational and research institutions, participation in Community and national funding programmes. Also, functional and sustainability criteria for the new municipal shape, such as, of course, cultural, historical and finally spatial criteria. All these criteria were therefore examined in conjunction with the possibilities for the sustainability of the municipalities established, as well as the urgency of the problems. In my opinion, a very important element in this whole effort is the fact that, also from local factors not belonging to the government, the Coupling, but belonging to the Anti-Population area, positive views have been expressed in relation to these regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the basic principles on which the administrative division of the country was supported by the KALIKRATITS programme was 'every island and municipality'. This principle did indeed work effectively in the case of small islands to an extent and population, as well as in islands without, I would say, serious morphologies. But the horizontal application of this measure to all the islands, apart from Crete and Evia, has certainly created some of them particularly serious problems, which, unless they are directly addressed, put at risk the functionality of these municipalities, create unbearable difficulties and inequality and an unequal development of the regions within the municipality itself. On the basis of the constitutional provision of Article 101, both insularity and the mountainity of a region must be taken into account by the legislator when regulating the issues of local government, with a view to balanced and integrated development of all regions, much more so that in some of the cases in question the element of islandity and mountainity is combined. It is characteristic that Samos, for example, is 92% mountainous and half mountainous, Kefalonia has two large mountainous tunes and is the most mountainous island of the Ionian island. These are just a few examples. For this reason, in addition to the four islands, Lesvos, Samos, Corfu and Kefalonia, this provision includes the Municipality of Serb Velvetou, precisely because of the mountainity of Velvetou and the major disparities that have been produced in practice by the merger of the two old ‘Kadistrical’ municipalities. So we directly regulate cases where they could not wait any longer. In the detailed explanatory statement accompanying the arrangement you will find information on each of these five cases which, I believe, document the appropriateness of these arrangements. At the same time, however, we are also setting up a legislative committee, which will have a scientific and cross-party nature, which will study all the other matures of the municipalities concerned, draw up the relevant studies and, in a reasonable period, within a few months, recommend which additional arrangements must be made and where. Because we know that there are similar problems beyond the five cases which we face with this provision. Let me mention the case of the Municipality of Soho in Thessaloniki, Zaro, Tymbaki and Ruva in Heraklion, Crete, Aliveri and Eidapso in Evia. Of course there are similar cases elsewhere. We also know very well that there are Vice-Presidents, but also Co-population, who, in the previous period, tried, if you like, to make the relevant requests from local communities on several occasions. We have heard them, we have picture and the committee that will be set up will look at all these cases very carefully. Allow me to make a special reference to the islands, because our Government over the past few years has made a very great effort to tackle structural problems and pathogens on the islands, which had not been addressed in all previous years. And I am talking about very specific interventions, such as transport equivalent, such as the specific development programmes, such as the targeted recruitments to island municipalities, such as, of course, the specific criteria for islands which, for the first time, have been introduced into KLISTEN in terms of the distribution of centrally autonomous resources. It is therefore clear that all this effort we have done for the islands could not continue with institutional intervention, which is necessary, as is this provision. We could not let citizens, for example in Sigri, Lesbos, not enjoy basic public hygiene services, because the waste water is taking four hours to collect waste. We could not leave earthquake areas, such as Kefalonia, which combines not only islands, but also mountainous areas, as I said before, cannot be covered for four years after earthquakes, because the island is developing completely unequally. And, of course, we could not leave in the decline and a town like Velvet, which, from a model municipality, active economic and cultural, is now with closed mountain roads for months, with closed libraries, with closed clubs. We would then be against the Constitution, because the administration has an obligation to ensure equality of all citizens in the services provided. Until now, since the establishment of the new self-government authorities after the May elections in September 2019, when the new municipalities will start operating, there is a transitional period of about six months to prepare the existing municipalities for the new situation. This first reason is, of course, the municipalities and local communities which should help to make this transition smoothly. It is, of course, obvious that all possible help will be provided on our part. Besides, the arrangement includes a number of provisions, as you will see when you read it carefully, clear provisions with specific timetables for how the division will take place, what will happen with the status of existing employees and employees, what will be done with the distribution of the municipality's property, with the legal entities governed by public law and so on. Specific arrangements for recruitment of new staff should also be included, as a priority, in order to avoid any problems in newly established municipalities. In the preparation of these regulations, I would like to say that a very great effort has been made by the services of our Ministry, the Ministry of Interior, and also by my colleagues, who are here today, who are in difficult circumstances and with very suffocating timetables, have really worked to get to today's outcome. I want to thank everyone and publicly for the commitment and the great effort they have made, because the project of the splitting of municipalities is for the first time in the Greek public administration, but we have dared and acted. The combination of the municipalities with the KALIKARATI did benefit many municipalities throughout the country - that is true - but there were many cases where this rule had exceptions, which we need to treat. It is our duty to recognise them especially when, in some cases, the group lifted the capacity of whole regions to organise and self-government and effectively undocumented our citizens' right to have access to basic municipal services. The basic rule in self-government can only be the best possible service for the citizen at the local level, and I am sure that together with the municipalities, which will implement this plan in the next few months, we will have the best possible result. That is why I call on you to support this amendment. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Haritsi. I will give the floor to Mr Athanasios who wants to refer to this amendment by the Minister and ask questions. Minister, keep notes to answer Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u105	He wants to talk right after, before Mr. Haritsis leaves. He's six on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u106	Thank you very much for your understanding. The Minister will leave, which is why I am taking the floor. If there's any objection...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u107	No, there's no objection. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must acknowledge to the Minister that he is one of the few ministers who, when they bring amendments, come here and analyses them for a sufficient period of time. Ladies and gentlemen, with Law 3852/2010, "KALIKRATI", it was stated that every island is also a municipality. But see what they achieved then: Lesvos from thirteen municipalities became one, other municipalities from eleven became five. One example I am referring to is that from eleven there have been five. Other municipalities of nine became four or five. Small islands became municipalities and have neither economic nor technical support and resort to adjacent municipalities, in neighbouring municipalities. In almost all the conferences of the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece since 2011 and so far, they are voting unanimously that the largest island municipality should break with the thousands of six hundred and thirty-four kilometers, the seventy three communities and two hundred settlements and the population of about ninety thousand. Lesvos is the third island after Crete and Evia and the seventh in the Mediterranean. But can anyone tell us, is Crete an island or not? Because according to the "CALL" it was considered that it is not an island. But according to your recent legislation relating to the transport equivalent, you said it was an island. For two years, you've been saying the city's gonna break. In Mytilini very intelligently the first Mayor, Mr. Vounatsos, called him "Kakocrats", because he could not rule him in view of the fact that the capital is at the eastern end. One thing I'll tell you: To get a dumpster to the west end, it needs to go -- come four hours. This is also mentioned in the rapporteur's report. Mr. Kourublis, Mr. Skourletis, the Secretary General, Mr. Pulakis confirmed that the municipality would break into such a number that residents would be served. You come now, Minister, and you tell us about two municipalities. Why? [[Noise in the Chamber]] You were right to break them, well done, there's no rivalry. Kefalonia is one-sided. He's getting out of a congressman, and he's become three municipalities. Samos one MP, two municipalities. That's right, Samo. I get it. Corfu is right three municipalities with six hundred square kilometers. Samos four hundred seventy - seven sq km, while Lesvos was sixty - four square kilometers [30 sq km]. We couldn't understand why this unfavourable treatment for my island. In view of the seriousness of this issue, the Minister had to bring in a bill of incompetence from your Ministry so that, firstly, he would be consulted in order to hear the remarks and, secondly, he would go through the Central Legislative Committee to look at these observations and finally, the Report of the General Accountancy of the State to see whether they are compatible with the division. It is not enough, it is now the amendment a few hours ago. It's sixty-nine pages in an unrelated bill, i.e. the Ministry of Health for private clinics. I don't understand what private clinics have to do with the towns' spatial planning. And what amendment? Be careful, for those who have not studied the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, in an article on all the islands, both the four and the Velvet. Why-- look out! - if it was in your Ministry's law... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr. Colleague, why are you interrupting? You have a mania, although you are from Mytilini, and we from Mytilini are distinguished as Aioles for our kindness, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u109	Does my presence bother you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u110	Go on, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u111	But if they were, ladies and gentlemen, a bill from the Ministry of the Interior, you would have put the articles separately and we could have voted on them. For example, Lesvos. Perhaps if it were two, we could vote for it because a part of it is satisfied, but not all of it. I don't understand why everything had to come in. And you know now how it comes: either you vote everything or you vote nothing. While with the simple bill, the Ministry of Interior could do that. Of course, you understand now what our objections are. But I would like to read, Minister, something from the explanatory statement which deserves what I am saying. You say that the criterion in the reconstruction decision is the most accessible and effective administration of local authorities, since we have taken into account their collective bodies and bodies. I would like to know who those in Lesvos who said the division into two, because from what I know both the self-government and the local authority institute and the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities were talking about at that time, the Institute for five municipalities and all four municipalities. I read, however, that you have other criteria. Let us say, you set criteria for Velvet, for example, having monuments and antiquities it maintains. But your colleagues, Minister, should know the monuments and antiquities of Lesvos. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will conclude in a minute. Lesvos is a whole monument. In fact, UNESCO has declared her an endless farm and is protected by UNESCO. You know it's one of the few parts of Greece where this Western coexistence with Eastern civilization exists. The right word of the West coexists harmoniously with Eastern culture. I am saying this because you are invoking it in the other prefectures and not in our own law: the Lesbians' struggles against Ottoman totalitarianism, to mention again the example you mentioned, the uncontrolled migratory flows you mentioned about the islands that have actually caused a problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I am not talking about the population criteria. We're a hundred thousand and the others are very little. You refer to a 1975 Velvet decision and say that it was a unanimous decision of the bodies there. But all the decisions are unanimous, and I mentioned to you before the institute and so on. I would like to conclude by saying that all the Lesbians, ladies and gentlemen, are aware of the fact that the two municipalities were made following a candidate's request and that is why it is supported.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u112	Who's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u113	Who are the other bodies mentioned in the explanatory statement that you were offered two municipalities? There aren't any. Mr. Ministers, if there's any you can tell us. Minister, the Lesbians will nonetheless respond by their vote tomorrow, condemning the inspirations of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Minister, if you want, you can say something, or we can move on to the list. Oh, no. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Hellenic Chamber VENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the St. John Corfu Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Katsikis has the floor, who wants to support an amendment he has tabled in his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 26 February last month I tabled an amendment with a general number of 1990 and a specialist of 150. I am referring to the evidence, whether you should refer to it, in addition to what I will now develop in my position, to have it in writing in your hands. And I'm asking for your attention for the three minutes I'm going to speak. I believe we have a duty to legislate for the protection of human life. For this very reason, I appeal to the head of the Ministry of Health and to the two ministers who, at the same time, also have the status of doctor in exercising this social function in order to examine the content of this amendment with social sensitivity and social justice. Of course, the national Parliament, thank God, has several doctors, some of whom are currently in the Chamber. I shall say a few words about the substance of the amendment, ladies and gentlemen. I am referring to rehabilitation and rehabilitation centres with a power of more than a hundred beds, and we mention this in order to adopt the fact that so large centres are also in need, if they host patients, where these are imposed on other departments of nursing and others. But there is also a number that can be changed if the Ministry of Health accepts that the substance of the amendment focuses on better care for patients in rehabilitation and rehabilitation centres. I therefore thought that there should be the development of a single adult nursing unit in these centres, i.e. general pathology, at least twenty beds, under the terms and conditions laid down in this draft law and its related appendices. I believe that in this way, through this addition, the development of a single autonomous and self-contained general nursing unit, according to the standards and standards of private clinics, contributes to improving care within the care centres for the care of the care centres and the rehabilitation of a closed hospital. In order to address any medical problems of another kind, hospitals will not need to be transferred to public or private clinics, endangering their lives, as medical assistance will be immediate and ultimately less costly, since the need to remove and move patients is eliminated. In the years, the combination of rehabilitation and hospitalization benefits will relieve patients of additional suffering, which results in cases where treatment is required to stop, transfer them to a nursing facility and reinstate them to rehabilitation centres. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I don't find a prosperous ear. However, I will continue. I consider this amendment to be very important. And I would like, if it comes to the approval of the main ministers, to have your own support. I therefore said, ladies and gentlemen, that the burden of the National Health Services Agency, the EEAS, that is, if such an amendment is adopted, will be reduced. We will also reduce the cost that the country is spending on health. It will be reduced as the possibility of covering hospital costs and insurance companies, which are not paying today, will be provided. And they do not pay, when a rehabilitation centre works only for this reason, without having been incorporated into it in a nursing pathology unit and so on, which is certainly not happening today. This ensures the uninterrupted treatment of the already introduced patients without any interruption in their care and kinetic rehabilitation services. But, according to both the previous and the proposed institutional frameworks, private clinics are now allowed to operate physical and rehabilitation departments, for better and better service for the hospitals. The reverse, however, is not the case, which, in my view, is a paradox. In other words, in a private clinic, it can operate a form of rehabilitation centre and a rehabilitation centre cannot operate a nursing unit to better serve the patient with a view to restoring the health problems of the patient. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I therefore believe that it should be considered reasonable to request a nursing unit and rehabilitation and rehabilitation centres. I think they should have it. It doesn't hurt anyone. It serves patients and benefits the public, because the costs of the EEAS are reduced. That is why I call for the head of the Ministry of Health, through this amendment. As regards the need to amend the existing legislation, I would like to mention, for example, the sustainability problems facing large private units of restoration of neurological and musculoskeletal diseases, among others, in the Attica prefecture where I am elected. Such centres, therefore, with a hundred and twenty-five shaped beds, which are a model of providing highly qualified care services, with the aim of reintegrating the individual into its daily activities, are at risk of being shut down because they cannot be viable centres. Without wanting to make selective references - which is why I do not mention - I believe that it is our duty - and I am finishing - to legislate in favour of protecting the operation of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation centres as a whole, as both the patients and the Greek public benefit from the widening of the services provided. Mr Minister, a moment ago the subject of amendments was raised and, of course, the issue of regulation and respect for the decisions on whether or not the ministerial amendments should be discussed. Mine is also in any event entirely justified in any case. I wanted to ask you to see it with your respect, consider it with a sense of justice. If the positive provisions of your amendments really do not go far from the positive provisions that this amendment could have in order to incorporate into the bill and also have one provision, always in the field of law, you should approve it. But in the inappropriate case you reject it, I would ask you to state the reasons for your refusal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. We proceed with Elias Kamaro, MP of the Dodecanese of SYRIZA for seventeen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. However, I would not have brought you into the difficult position of breaking the order of speakers, colleagues, much more than demanding that the Minister sit down to listen to me. It's okay, some people unfortunately have another concept, they think they have special privileges in this House, even more so some people that they own them. In any case, on our point. Mr Ministers, and this bill comes to take a big step forward towards covering the development of the health system in favour of the many. We've taken too many steps. Also, in this bill, as in others, you are caring for the islands, and I must stress it. Like Article 126, which provides that in islands, in small hospitals - it also defines the number of beds - it will be possible to bring about or anticipate more doctors to meet the increased needs for the surrounding islands and because of the increased movement of summer and because of the particular nature and the great needs of the islands. The same is true of Article 138 which provides for an extension of the concept of barren hospitals, barren health establishments, so that they have the particular incentives they need above. Allow me to make an intervention and a proposal on this issue of islands. Your Ministry, Mr. Ministers, is from the Ministries, not to mention the only one they've made divisions. He has made areas in the health system, in the supply of medicines, in the recruitment of doctors, in the budget. Again, in these areas, especially for the islands, too much has been done, for example in cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence, many problems have been solved in fertile medicine, particularly agricultural, that you gave military doctors the right to perform their duties as agricultural doctors. Many islands have been helped and I shall refer, if I have time, and by name below. Special incentives have also been given to doctors either with molecules, even in cash, or with a co-response and all of this. You can't imagine what relief it is for the inhabitants of the small islands, especially the very small ones who don't have a doctor, what happened and is going almost every week by a military doctor, in collaboration with the Ministry of Shipping, with the Port. You cannot imagine what it is for people on these islands the presence of a doctor, even once a week or every two weeks. These are too serious for our islands. However, ladies and gentlemen, as you have done in all other areas, I would like to propose that we take an even greater step, make an incision to this issue of health, as far as the islands are concerned. Because despite all the steps I told you before, agricultural doctors don't come to the small islands, so we had to find a solution with the military doctors. Doctors in the island hospitals don't go. You know very well that in Kos just now and with the many suffering a pediatrician goes after about fifteen years. You know we don't have cardiologists and we're talking about islands hosting a million seven hundred thousand tourists, except the inhabitants who are tens of thousands. How could this be improved? It is very important that what you have done, which enables these hospitals to increase their organic positions on the islands. If we make it even more daring, I think they'll have spectacular effects on health on the islands. How? If you see the spatial planning plans, the regional, especially of the islands, especially the southern Aegean Sea, which is the most multi-insular and excellent island region, you will see that the various islands are characterised as a regional level, prefecture level, over-local level and local level. So there, we can see the hospitals at which level they can play. At each level they can play the role of adopting, if you want, the following health structures, strengthening the following health structures. What do I mean more specifically? The doctor doesn't go to stay two years on an island of a hundred or tenant. We know, it's hard. And whatever motives we give him, we'll always find it difficult. However, if the hospital, to which the neighboring and immediately above may be subject, strengthens its body, as we are now taking a step, do so even greater, with so many doctors who can go at intervals on the islands, that is every three months, every four months a doctor will go, then we will immediately resolve, without much - the issue of health on the islands. And it's not something we don't have experience for. The colleague from Lesvos can also be mentioned. The islands are very small. It's Lesvos, Lemnos, and St. Stratis. Lemnos has a hospital. The hospital in Lesvos has adopted Ai Stratis and Ai Stratis, not only do we have a doctor's problem, but from the hospital in Mytilini they go and specialist doctors, every once a month, cardiologists and gynecologists. So we can cover the problems. For those who don't understand, because I'm sure a lot of people don't understand, you know what it is for a woman - we were talking about demographics today - what is for a mother, baby to make a vaccine for her child, you have to travel three and four days if she doesn't have a furlough to give him a vaccine? You know that the doctor complained to Astypalea was that he couldn't leave to run tests, why is he the only doctor on the island in decades now? You know we couldn't have a second doctor because they're so far away? All this can be solved here. That is why I would ask you to take an even greater step, as you have been doing so far, and we will have spectacular effects on the issue of the health of the islands, which is so burning up all the people. One more step forward for islandity in all we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u118	Thank you Mr. Ilias Kamaero, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Constantine Vlassis, Member of the Arcadia Parliament of the New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, three years ago, when I was going to some of the villages of Arcadia and specifically of Gortini, in a village of 'Stavro-roads', I met a wise old man, who then expressed my concerns about the economic situation in the country - you had already closed up a year ago, the third memorandum had already passed, of course, we are now ordering the fourth, with 100 billion extra on the citizens' backs, with unnecessarily austerity measures - then this wise old man answered me 'Doc. Let them see, for four years, what the left is." How right he was! Yes, it is! It wasn't just your experimentation in the economy that cost us. It was also your ideas, your illusions, your murders. The situation we are experiencing as long as the days pass and we are approaching to the elections is increasingly reminiscent of your old good recipe, the situation in which you feel safe and all the others insecure: Bhalo! It may sound excessive, but really, every night we fall into bed, we don't know what's going to take us out of bed. You have a unique talent to destroy everything everywhere! So I cannot be tempted to comment on topicality. To what first? Collections make them lands of Midian where they stand and where they are found. Terrorists walk unreservedly in the center of Athens. The universities have become immunityless. How can citizens feel safe? Of course, you will tell me that the populous Prime Minister every time he needs to visit part of our country, he needs dozens of similarities to protect him. Of course, at the same time, police officers in the Yannitsa were forced - listen, listen! - make preventive arrests or incubations, as you say. Seventeen, including a ten - year - old child. Looks like you saw in his DNA that he's a troublemaker. In fact, we heard Mrs Gerovali saying that all these applications were a prevention. There is no better prevention, you will tell us soon - and that is what I expect - than a curfew. You'll tell me: What did anyone expect from a government that sees enemies everywhere? Enemy the Church, Orthodoxy - your first concern, anyway, was the change of matter in religious - enemy our history - your first concern about the change of matter in ancient Greek - enemies all except Mr Madour and his company. You still haven't answered us, gentlemen of the government, for this four-hour stay of Venezuela's government vessel at "Eleftherios Venizelos". A lot of unanswered questions, Minister. Why did you leave when so many other countries said 'no'? The complaints that the government with this government ship is carrying money and gold abroad you knew them? Do you have anything to tell us? Did the Minister of Foreign Affairs land on the aircraft? After the sale of Macedonia, which we are already seeing results, with the recent article at the BBC, which was talking about the oppressed "Macedonian minority", we know that they follow much, by Mr Karayannides, who proposed an honest compromise with Turkey, in standards - listen, listen! - the Prespecies Agreement, of course, and Mr Tsipras, who suggests that Turkey be honoured at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki in 2021. When? When two hundred years are completed by the Greek Revolution and our liberation. What can I say? I don't know about you, but I, as a Greek, as an Arcas, call it an affluent to our ancestors, who spilled their blood to be all of us free. National concessions without finishing. Admit it: You have lost control, you have failed everywhere. Ask for at least a sincere apology. Since today's bill talks about health, I cannot help mentioning more than ninety fellow humans who lost their lives from the flu virus, where you supposedly did everything well and the results were tragic. Who is to blame, Minister, for the delays in the supply of vaccines? Simple civilians, I imagine. Who's to blame for the lack of ICU beds? Citizens, I imagine. Who's to blame for the incomplete information? Citizens again, I imagine. However, it was enough for your Deputy, Mr. Polakis, here, to show how cynically you face life, saying: “Okay. And what happened? It is not even a national disaster!” With regard to this draft law, this is a purely out-of-date plan on health, which was discussed in part and for which the Ministry actually did not provide any room for dialogue. Is that why we've waited so long? Where did the dialogue go with the actors? Where did they get their requests? Where did your commitments go? Where'd your popular sensitivity go? We don't level it all. There are some provisions in the right direction, such as patient records and the patient's electronic file. Otherwise, arrangements with no logic, no continuity. But you do not seem to have brains too, otherwise you would have already withdrawn at least Article 127. It is not possible for the state to provide legal cover to the administration of the EKRD, especially when in the summer we mourned so many dead in Matti, because - let us not hide behind our finger - that is why this arrangement came. I would like to refer, as a doctor and as a university, to a particularly important issue, which you systematically do not care about. I am referring to Article 21 of this draft law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. Unlike all other university lawyers, engineers, economists, etc. - who can and are free to pursue the profession - and well do - the doctors - who are members of an ICP who are posted by the medical school of the relevant university in hospitals of the ERC, are not able to pursue a profession free of charge without other restrictions, except to fulfil their obligations at the university and at the hospital. Why this distinction? You are confronted as enemies by university doctors, who offer a major clinical work to these hospitals, a very high-level work, which is insufficiently paid and which is essentially an additional offer of university doctors to the hospitals in the U.S. hospitals, in addition to their obligations - educational, research and administrative work - like all other university subjects. The worst part is you don't think about the consequences. If we exclude university doctors from the full exercise of the profession, many will leave the U.S. hospitals for the benefit of private clinics, with what this entails for patients in public hospitals. Is that what this is about? Aren't you opposed to the private sector and support free public health? So all the U.S. Members' associations of the medical schools of the country and the U.S.P.C.C. have declared the strong will of the U.S. members to continue to support the full day-to-day operation of the hospitals, the afternoon clinics and newspapers, but to allow them, as well as all university students, the exercise of a profession outside their working hours and after having fulfilled their obligations in hospital and university. We ask for self-evident: To apply the simple and common sense, which you unfortunately do not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Vlassi. Mr Paul Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor to refer to a number of amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Because I feel that I was caused by the previous speaker, I will start with the amendment with protocol number 2003 and a special 158, to prove to you, Mr Colleague, how the Left governs. Because you haven't understood it in four years. You've learned in the bats of the past decades. So listen to me now to understand how the Left governs. We will be leaving Madurus and the planes and Venezuela.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u122	Answer for that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u123	Gerar de Villier, you've become the last. I've had a whole post. This is where you've made SKAY's reporting policy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u124	You rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u125	Don't hold a dialogue, Mr. Vlassi!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u126	...who were talking about a kidnapping of Tsipras from the Malvids and I said that we, the trained party of the CNN era, went and liberated him. Aren't we a little embarrassed? This is an arrangement that has to do with the well-known molecular blood control. Listen to the way the Left governs: When the Right was ruled on Avramopoulos, you had given CCPVO the opportunity to order the tests of molecular blood control after an appropriate advertising campaign that fell from the CDC the money, that black money, and we were buying the 80 euro test. At the same time, Poland took 11 euros. I'm saying this to scratch your memory a little bit. That lasted two years. Then there was a first supply of a tender and the test came down to 60 euros. Then, there was a competition - much later, 2012 and 2014 and it was completed in 2015 - and this price fell. In the four centers that do this, in the CSCE, in Venizelos, in Patras and Thessaloniki, it was in the middle line of 8 euros. These are some of the tens of millions of euros which the Greek state has spent at the time and which make up what we call EUR 85 billion black money in the health sector. Now, then, there is a new competition in progress that lowered the price to 5,45 euros. There was an appeal to the Independent Refugee Authority and there was one rapporteur there who found legal problems. The previous contract expires in March. Now, in the light of the observations of the Procedural Authority, we need to extend the previous convention. What's easier? But that's not exactly what we're doing. The competition will continue and will end up at EUR 5,45 the test, but we have put the two companies which have so far provided the four centres with a 25% discount on what they gave, namely EUR 8 - will go down there, around EUR 5,80 - so that we can continue to obtain until the previous tender is completed. That's how the Left governs. That is the first amendment. The second amendment relates to how the Left is governed, but to another level. It is the amendment with a general number of 2001 and a specialist of 156. Has the EKT ever been fixed? In the '80s. Why so far - so many governments have gone through - there has not been a system, an institutional framework that mobilises the movements and transfers of EKP officials? Why wasn't there so far? Didn't you have the mind to fix it? Didn't you have any suggestions from the administrations you appointed? Didn't you have any suggestions from the unions there? Oh, no. You did not want to do so because you wanted to see the "a man's authority" either of the commander and deputy commander of the EKAB, or of the ministerial office every time, or of the intervention of the MPs "take me out of here, take me there". And so we have a number of areas in Greece that are overpaid by staff and others that are understated because they did not have their own MP. Yeah, you know what? There was also a joke that the shifts - he says - of the EMCDDA in each area - are about how many ambulances are coming out - it is about how many MPs each region gets out. Think about it a little. Now for the first time in thirty years this government, the left-wing government - I repeat it - on the basis of the proposals made by the operators and trade unions and the administration and the agencies, brings an institutional framework for the moves to be made. It objectively shares the pre-service, where this service is, the family situation, because there are indeed needs, family, personal, health. When one, let us say, sits eight, ten, twelve, fifteen years on an island and is from elsewhere - and not take it the first week he goes and by oral order of the President and is seven years elsewhere, at the seat of the Member who had appointed the commander who carried him - to have the right to request his transfer, his transfer or his transfer under objective criteria. We also add the issue of military wives here. We are giving the opportunity to join the EKRD - they were out - so that soldiers who are EKRB's crew wives can move and serve in an area based on the needs and organisational chart available in the EKRD. We also put this framework as one of the criteria that allows or prohibit the transfer. That is the second amendment that proves how the Left is governed. The third amendment has a general number of 2008 and a special number of 161. This provision is introduced for reasons of legal certainty. It has the agreement and the signature of Ms Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou, the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction. This is about the uninterrupted functioning of the public administration. You know that soon the terms of the administrations that were designated in 2016 in hospitals and supervised agencies of the Ministry of Health expire. We therefore arrange that the terms of office which expire are declared within two months, on the basis of the new procedure - that is to say, those which end from 1 to 2019 - on the basis of the register of officials and simply extend the term of office of officials until the procedure is completed, so that there is no gap in the administration of hospitals. Also, if there is a seating position, i.e. if, before the end of his term of office, someone resigns or loses his life - because everything needs to be anticipated - or the position is vague - when the term of office expires, this position is declared within two months on the basis of the new way - for the immediate coverage of the current procedure, which was in place until 31-12-2018, so that there is no great gap in the administration of hospitals. That is the third amendment. We will at another point say which of the parliamentary amendments we are accepting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u127	Thank you, Minister. We move along with Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Let me turn to the provision on the creation of supervised use sites. Is this an originality of SYRIZA? Oh, no. Since the 1990s there have been seventy such sites in six countries of Europe. However, there is nowhere to show the effectiveness of this measure in reducing or reducing heroin deaths. SYRIZA diligently hides - and even suspiciously - that the supervised use seeks to transfer the plate to four walls, canceling the effort to rehab, which is the only response to the use. Therefore, not unfairly, nor too much so-called ‘supervisory use areas’ are termed ‘supervised death areas’. And so is it. Say it clearly: users should not be visible in the dishes, clean up the center of Athens, in order to make tourist attraction, facilitate investment in the great business interests. But who is he who can control death at the same time offers room to him? Even if the number of deaths is controlled within the space, what happens outside? What about the mental and social death that goes with the use anyway? The government for four years now sloppy, but stable, with the sympathy of the other parties of Anti-Population, acquiescites cannabis, generalizes substitution, shrinks prevention and dry programs, cuts them off funding, shrinks their staff. SYRIZA - to say this clearly - seeks to legitimise the consciousness of the drug use society in a way that will obscure the real causes of a complex, multifactorial problem by raising it to a medical and public order. So we ask: will a doctor be found to oversee a man who pierces his veins when his role is to heal people? And when the drug addict leaves this place, what about it? Will it become part of the NGO's turnover that, instead of many money, they undertake to find him, so that his dose can also be taken and not spoiled by the large-scale investors' plans? Slowly, but firmly, the drugs are legitimized, and you call this, gentlemen of the SYRIZA Government, modern and progressive. Already in Athens, the first automatic seller of cannabis products was placed, where cannabis blossoms would be sold, supposed to be an alternative tea. All this, of course, with the wishes of the mayors of all urban parties who defend the healthy and safe use of drugs through surveillance areas. They promote the separation of soft and hard drugs, promote all forms of drug addiction, support aggressive well-funded campaigns in favour of cannabis use with the missionary cloak. Their common denominator is the European Union's drug policy that acquits drug dependence and deliberately disconnects it from its social causes, which she itself reproduces with her anti-popular policy. The only bright exception is the position and struggles of the JRC, its candidates in the municipalities and regions for a free drug society and not with free drugs. We call on all people to react fighters, to spoil the plans of the government, the municipal authorities for effective legalisation of drugs and to bruise 'Not all drugs. Life all, not in doses." Let me also address myself to the parliamentary amendment tabled concerning the break-up of five municipalities in the country. The government of SYRIZA, with its culminating policy, manages to disorientate the people from its daily problems and restore to the forefront the spatial planning of the municipalities, and even selective by photographic provision, i.e. voter, as a voter, is the new promise from this Step a little while ago for the future satisfaction of the requests to Ruva, Tympaki, Zaro and Alikarnassos from what I learned, although the Minister did not say. As a voter is the announcement of the transport equivalent that does not give farmers, nor the small and medium-sized ones of Crete, but big businessmen with a turnover of EUR 40 million. How much they care if people's needs and struggles will be facilitated. Why are you now being selectively satisfied with the demands of certain regions and not for example Rhodes, which is a large island or now and Crete? However, you will do so after a six-month period in order to secure workers' votes. It is, of course, right and respectful for every local society to want its territory as a municipality. But here everything comes within the pre-election plans of SYRIZA to keep the reactionary framework in the municipalities that turn municipalities into tax-converting mechanism, minimizes funding from the state budget trades services, overthrows labour relations, shrinks staff, increases contractors and synonyms with businesses. The crucial issue is that the people should not be caught up in arguments such as self-government, support for independent candidates on the basis of spatial planning or non-partyisation of elections. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The JRC, with openness and respect for the ordinary people of local societies, tells them that they should not fall into these traps. If they change the boundaries of the municipality, will anyone be able to have a permanent and stable job? Will the overthrow of industrial relations, elastic working relationships or the hostage of workers in the municipality stop? Will he be able to have free services upgraded to health, education, welfare? Will the basic social needs be stopped? Will the employees' pocket and income be stopped? Even if each community has its own resources, will the resources of the local government stop as the main source of compensation and entrepreneurship and State funding being balanced? Will account seizures, public housing auctions stop? Will children's stations be staffed to operate permanently, all social structures? Will the tragic situation in schools improve with the lack of teachers and teachers and building issues? The legitimate indignation of the people of taxation and unbearable municipal fees, the non-implementation of projects in their region, the downgrading of the total quality of life must not be extinguished into unscrupulous moves. The crucial thing is that people's families are not caught in the so-called separation of problems in locally separated from an overall, unjust, class policy that gives birth to them. The JRC had from the outset been placed against the "COLICARATI" the main term of the first memorandum, as in the "CLISTEN I", the basic term of the third Memorandum. This is anti-grassroots, reactionary institutional frameworks. The JRC has been vindicated in its view that the vast majority of the problems are the result of the overall political line, irrespective of its governmental expression. No philosophical, local policy can exist as long as general policy remains unpopular. In our view it must be a uniform, universal one. There is no unfair development in an unjust system no matter how much you want to triple the people, wrap it in a paper glue. Hope, the way out lies in the conspiracy with the JRC, the reconstructuring of the labour movement, to put forward his needs, to believe in his power, to his rightfully, to organize his struggle and his claims. That's our commitment, and that's why we're gonna fight. Thank you, Mr President, and apologise for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. Gregory Psarianos, Independent MP of Athens, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am talking about a health bill for which there should have been extensive consultation and discussions with all actors for too long and that we have seen a lot of things that we need to correct, things that we need to change and things that we need to introduce into the health system. So instead of all this, we have once again put a super-urgent bill that comes a bullet, that is, with a thousand, with four hundred forty pages, seven hundred together with the annexes, with a hundred forty-seven articles to be voted on here and now, with the most fast track process we have used to, once again. In all these articles, there are some things that can be discussed, accepted, voted on. There are a lot of things they want to talk about. There's too much that's rejected in the first place. I don't want to expand and thoroughly talk about the whole bill. I just want to say, in general terms, about the issue of health. I want to make a general description. Is it better to have two hundred hospitals, like we have them, and to subordinate 50? Or is it better to have thirty hospitals that are well-built, equipped and with the people they need? I'm sure the answer is the second one. I mean, if the Peloponnese has fifteen hospitals and Bavaria has ten, it's certain that it won't work. I tell you from personal experience, because I've visited a lot, and I've talked to people. There is a hospital in Molaus, while there is a hospital in Sparta, and neither of them functions properly and properly as they should. Elijah had five hospitals, and I think he now has three. Thessaly has five. He could have two. However, when we are used to seeing the fields of education, health, welfare and services only to settle customers and as a mechanism for recruiting and restoring "the next" - and I say it to all sides - we will do every city and stadium, every village and gym. This well-known system: Prisons everywhere, universities everywhere, hospitals everywhere, and let's not normally work anywhere. This plan, the little system, has to change yesterday! It can't go on like this. Let's call it a hospital, Lamia. Why wouldn't Atalant have one? Why wouldn't Tithorea have one? Why can't he have one of the Karpenissi or the Horror? To make every town a hospital so we can settle people. That's why we have the hospitals. We don't care about people's health in fact. With regard to education, I would like to say that the European Union has a university for every million, say. We for the ten million that we are, which in a few decades' time will be eight, have forty-five universities. And this system cannot function either in education, in health, in services or in anything. The villages of hatred and disillusionment we have in the private sector and we despise them as the devil of the loin and where we hear 'private' and 'private', still this PPP, sound like heavy dirty words, which we cannot even mention. I listened carefully to Jason Fotidas and because we have discussed them too many times with Kostas Barriotas, because we were in a common political area, in too many things I was covered by Jason. I don't want to repeat it. I want to dwell on two articles in particular, on Articles 96 and 97. These articles relate to the simulation of steam with smoking. This system is criminal. There are people who have been smoking for forty - forty-five years, such as myself and the Deputy Minister for Health who cannot cut it and beg it from Europe to cut it, or at least not to smoke in intensive units, and not to channel tobacco into tubes. Because, then, it's very difficult to quit smoking and I've known it very well since 2012, I'm a steamer. I don't smoke a cigarette at all, and I've been in this substitute process. Steaming doesn't have liability steamers. It doesn't bother people around who don't steam, about the smokers around, we don't talk about it. I personally and all the people with whom I am speaking, and even those who keep smoking, we are convinced that we all have to ban smoking in every public enclosed area. It's over and out. It must not be allowed, not to say forbidden, because it is a little heavier. It should therefore not be allowed to smoke in any closed public area. I wish we could not even be allowed in our homes in enclosed areas, because we have children, because we have people who don't smoke. Steaming has nothing to do with this thing. Even when it contains a small amount of nicotine in the replacement fluids, we're talking about. Article 96 seeks to amend Law 4419/16, i.e. the law adopted to transpose the European Directive on electronic cigarette regulations and Article 97, by amending Law 3730/2008 on the prohibition of advertising. To accept this, to ban advertising in tobacco and steaming and in what is less or less harmful. And the water from the tap we drink hurts. If we analyze it in the chemical labs, it's not the best water a man or a child should drink. Even the many chocolates are harming. Prohibition them. These bans and this way of dealing with things are in the wrong direction. I mean, with these two articles, the Ministry is fully equating and treating steam as just as harmful as smoking. It simulates all alternative products of cigarettes to cigarettes, eventually turning the smokers towards the most harmful option, i.e. the continuation of smoking. I mean, the smoker, while he's had a fight to cut it off, relapse to keep smoking. In various places where you are not allowed to smoke publicly, there are dolls with smokers. There you stick in and the steamers smoking and suffering the side effect of forced smoking. These are basic things that we should have separated. We have the first scientific study on electronic cigarette in Greece made by Onasios, by the National School of Public Administration and by the Universities of Patras and Macedonia. There is a scientific measurement for Greece for the damage or for the use of electronic cigarettes. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Gregory Psarianos, presents for the Minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This little text can be seen, kept, and I hope it will be communicated. There is air sampling that confirms that passive fumes are harmless, does not cause any harm, there is no passive fumes. This text, the analysis, is a study. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Unfortunately, time does not allow me to extend to various other things that are relevant to the issue, which are very serious. I will submit to the Minutes the following: 'The effects on the passive atmospheric fumes of electronic cigarette'. [[At this point the Member, Mr Gregory Psarianos, presents for the Minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Many people said that the simulation of steaming with smoking is dictated by some of the tobacco industries that don't want to find a hard competitor and get them a client. This is abolished by a letter, with a text, which has come from the Greek tobacco industry, "PAPASTRATO", which also makes steam products and substitutes for cigarettes, and is also protesting to simulate steam with smoking or smoking with substitutes. I am tabling this document from the Greek tobacco industry in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Gregory Psarianos, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And one last thing: "Floating reduces relapses to cigarettes." So the one who has stopped cigarettes and is a steamer, if he is banned or obliged to follow bans and bans, or to accept or discipline in general bans, from where you were evaporating and you are fine and up and up and five floors, and you don't muddle and you don't have what you've had forty years of smoker, you're back in the cigarette. The risk of the smoker relapsing is daily and those who have been users of cigarettes, those who have been smoking, know it for decades. I am tabling this document in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Gregory Psarianos, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There are too many things that, with this policy, lead steamers to supply steam materials from other countries. Here the law forbids people who make fluids by themselves, buying glycerine, propylene glycol and others, forbids them from buying them from steam shops while you can take them from pharmacies or from supermarkets. That's silly. Why don't you let people operate this smoking substitution system and be saved? Because it's a kind of salvation. It may not be the perfectly safe thing, but it's not safe either to walk on the streets because we're going to run into a bus or go down stairs because we might fall, hit and get killed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Fisher.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u132	There's nothing safe at all. No hand is always optimal. And when someone has fought to stop smoking cigarettes for forty, fifty, sixty years and has found a way to replace it without harming their health, to the extent that it was damaged by smoking, you are forced to become a smoker again. This is for health criminal. And speaking of a health bill, of course, because they harm too much health, I mentioned some, it is this government that is seriously harming health.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Psariano. Mr Nikolaos Syrmalenes, SYRIZA MP for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether smoking seriously harms health, I am not a smoker. Obviously, smoking seriously harms health, but I am not a smoke and steam expert. Therefore, I cannot have an integrated view on this issue. But what I want to say is that this bill is really, in general, an excellent bill, which continues a public health policy that has begun since 2015, which has in many respects been brought up by the National Health System, which had collapsed especially in recent years by 2014, and of course, a twenty-year period had come from the original founding values of the National Health System, established by the memorable Gennamata and Mr. I would like to say, however, because some New Democracy MPs, in agreement with almost all the other parties in the opposition, have spoken and said that in any case this government has, in all other disasters, brought 'disaster' to health. I will therefore say to you two - three words about our region, about the Cyclades, how 'destructive' the policy of this government was. Of course, it was "destructive", because for the first time after decades the base of the EKAB, the aerospace facilities in Syros, which has saved dozens of lives and hundreds of lives in the last three years, has been created. Of course, the hospital of Santorini, which was packed, was founded, a new building with equipment, which they wanted to convert into a private clinic and today they have passed from there around 25,000 incidents in almost one year as a hospital in Athens. Of course, the hospital of Syros was upgraded with fifty staff of doctors, nurses and other staff, created a pediatric clinic and a number of other upgraded areas. Of course, in Naxos hospital, a kidney unit was first created, which keeps the kidney patients in Naxos who were forced to travel. Of course many others were served, such as the Center for Health of Paros, with a pediatrician, with general doctors, with a cardiologist. Of course, the same was done in Mykonos and in a number of other islands. In any case, this is the 'destruct' mentioned by the SYRIZA Government in the field of health to say only for my own region. I want to turn now to the bill. Article 126 also sets a small port to support small hospitals. It multiplys the number of beds at a coefficient of 2 to 3, for example, for the hospital in Naxos that if it has forty beds it will have a hundred to twenty to a hundred fifty doctors. These are, therefore, the achievements of 'destruction', as the Opposition says. There is another issue in which we call on the head of the Ministry of Health to see it seriously, the issue of the release of the interconnected hospital of Syros and Naxos. The Minister visited Naxos, spoke to the workers, spoke to the doctors, got the messages. I believe that in island Greece, two hospitals on different islands cannot be interconnected because the sea divides them. This is the main criterion, which must be taken into account by the head of the Ministry of Health and must go ahead. I shall now refer to the other subject of the amendment. Mr Haritsis, the Minister for the Interior, is absent, but because the amendment has been tabled and I shall refer again to the Municipality of Naxos and Small Cyclades. With "Kallikrati" almost all the islands of the country became municipalities, four to five municipalities were excluded in Greece, including the Municipality of Naxos and Small Cyclades, which has Naxos which is the big island and has the small Cyclades the four small islands: Donusa, Skounisa, Heraklion and Koufonissi. We don't put a break-up issue. There's no such matter. The question is whether these small islands, which are municipal communities separate from a multi-country municipality, can benefit from the various funding that has been made - very much, I would say - from the Ministry of the Interior, from the Ministry of Development over recent years by our government. What does that mean? It means that when funding is given to islands, to municipalities under three thousand hundred inhabitants, these islands cannot receive this funding, because it is not a separate municipality. However, there is one provision and the Ministry of Interior must see it for categorisation or subclassification in cooperation with the CEDEFOP, a ministerial decision which ad hoc will decide on specific funding each time, and this must be done or a provision must be passed, which will have universal effect and will apply to these islands. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] And I will say one last thing to be consistent in time, Mr President. These three of the four islands that have less than three hundred inhabitants cannot operate local government with serious responsibilities - read what responsibilities they have - with one President. It takes three-member councils - I am not saying five Members - and the President has an elementary allowance - not only to cover his expenses - which will provide him with a relative professional status with local government, in addition to the work he has on his island. Otherwise, it will not work, it will be an amateur work, which it cannot carry out if we want to implement these responsibilities which the legislator rightly gives him to exercise on the small islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Saridis has the floor for twelve minutes. Immediately afterwards, I will tell you how many speakers and who are going to speak at this sitting to calculate your programming and not to have to wait until the last minute. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear to you before I go as a parliamentary representative of the Union of Centres to comment on the multitude of today's amendments, the ministers and the Members of Parliament, that I shall briefly refer to some of the points which are the beginning of the bill, which form the substance of what we call the spirit of the law. It is true that some bills, such as what we are discussing today, are better founded and in the clearest way that they depend literally on human lives than we three hundred in here. An entire nation, an entire society, the Greek society, such a force have given us just through the Greek democracy, which we have today in the words that are heard here, but also in the words written in it, which are finally defined by these words in a substantial and catalyst manner, the course and fate of thousands of our people. And just because we have democracy in this place here in Greece no human life has more or less, greater or less value than the lives of the rest. So when we legislate specifically for those of our fellow people who have been caught in the nightmare, we should be extremely careful to prevent some of us from agreeing to specific meetings and in some specific respects to find ground to express themselves without getting the appropriate answers. And to be more specific, some of our fellow citizens are involved in drugs. Some of our fellow citizens, unfortunately, have come to the arbitrary, so by definition wrong conclusion, it is the drug addicts themselves. And because they believe this, they are led to thoughts of the "because they were involved alone, well to suffer, let them be careful, let them listen, let them not get involved". And so they end up shaping the view that it's not worth trying for those who don't try for themselves to save themselves. The result of this dangerous reasoning is the formation and expression of the extreme perception that we must exhaust our rigour on the drug addicts, not only because they are responsible for their own personal destruction, but also because, with their violating and sometimes criminal behaviour, they cause uncontrolled tragic consequences for third-country citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a reality. The truth is. It's a reality. It is very difficult to decide to insist on trying to help someone who does not want to help himself. In my opinion, this view should in no way be held here in the Greek Parliament at the temple of democracy. This well-established social concept should not be imposed on the way we legislate. Regardless of who is to blame for every time a man gets involved with drugs, we must continue to try to find solutions so that the way back to society, to family and to life remains winter - summer open for our fellow citizens, for those of them who want it. So for what we're looking at today, it doesn't matter how and why they were where they were found. It does not count at all who is to blame for being removed, nor should we take into account whether or not they want to get back healthy, safe in Greek society. However, the question is whether we allow them to do so. That's the point. Whether we allow them to come back. Will they be able to come back, even if they want to? These solutions that we suggest help them turn around if they want to? So today we are legislating on an attempt to ensure that if they want to come back, there is a way of doing so and it will be easily accessible, without obstacles, of any kind, anywhere. In other words, if we accept for the sake of the debate the irrational claim that it is the exclusive and absolute responsibility of the users themselves, this must not, nor can it, in any way, reduce our responsibility to ensure that the second opportunity exists, that the right to return, the hope of trying for the better of them. Having said this, I warn those who are responsible for implementing what we are doing today in this House that if they are delaying their schedules, if they deviate from the objectives they have achieved, if they are indifferent to these details, then instead of helping we will do things much worse than it is at the moment. That's the danger. That is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. It's not enough renames. That's not good enough. That's not enough. I am now going to comment on today's amendments, starting first from the ministerial and more specifically from the amendment, with a general number of 2001 and a specialist of 150, which concerns the crews of the ambulances of the EKA. The problems faced by the heroes of the EKAB are much and we are well aware of. Our will and our intention to help as we can be seen as given, ladies and gentlemen. However, whether or not these proposed provisions on the regime governing transfers and movements in general, but also, in particular, on emergency or emergency needs, manage to solve the problem, that is exactly where we have our reservations and that is why the Centroon Union will vote'residents' in this amendment. We will also be voting in the amendment under the general number of 2003 and with a special number of 158, concerning the extension of contracts F1 and F2 concluded in the framework of the EPC declaration, because the proposed provisions give rise to a possible total expenditure of EUR 4.7 million, according to the nearest Ministry. With regard to an amendment with a general number of 2004 and a special number of 151, I would like to ask a very substantial question and I would also like your attention. Why do we do what we do at the "Alexandros Onassis Foundation" we cannot do for the "Smile of the Child" and for the "SOS Children's Villages" and for the "Greek Children's Village" in Filio, in my town of Thessaloniki? In view of this amendment, the mutually beneficial foundation "Alexandros Onassis" is exempted from the special property tax, as well as all the companies of which he holds all the shares for property used exclusively and proven for mutually beneficial educational, religious or political purposes in Greece, for immovable property where the product of the holding is proven to be in these purposes, as well as for mobiles that are proven empty. In fact, all these tax exemptions also give retroactive effect. They don't have to pay anything since 2013 and they're asking us to pay taxes. And you're not telling us what kind of money we're talking about? How much money do we give? I ask this because we have recently been informed by the channels and newspapers that the left-wing government of SYRIZA - and without the ANELs - has signed a special agreement with shipowners on their right to voluntary self-taxation. Shipowners may voluntarily and voluntarily give what they please in public funds. When, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, we give taxes to the powerful and on the other, we legalise the voluntary self-taxation of the rich, it does not seem very clear why we cannot do the same for the "Smile of the Child", for the "SOS Children's Village", for the "Greek Children's Village" in Filio, Thessaloniki. It doesn't seem understandable at all. I, in other words, cannot understand it. So I suggest that you bring an identical amendment, like this one and instead of Alexander Onassis Foundation, to write on "Smile of the Child", "SOS Children's Village", "Greek Children's Village" on Filio. Do it! Do it and we'll vote for it. If you can't do it, you tell me we can do it. We will have an amendment. That's my proposal. With regard to the very important amendment, with a general number 2007 and a special number 160, which concerns the breaking of some municipalities, it stipulates that the administrative structure of the municipalities of Kerkyra, Kefalonia, Lesvos, Kozani and Samos should be redefined, but we are not opposed, ladies and gentlemen, to silence before the political feasibility shown by the decision to correct the broken 'Kalikaratis' with a delayed amendment, just two months before the elections of local government. I ask you, is this a way to solve what problems it has in a democracy? Is the Greeks' confidence in the functioning of democratic institutions strengthened or dissolved when such unacceptable legislative practices and procedures are followed? Regarding the other two ministerial amendments, with a general number 2008 and a special number 161 amending paragraph 3, Article 13, p. We are also in favour of voting 'at present' as we recognise the problems they are trying to solve, but we disagree in the unacceptable way that they seek to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, before I came out of Stepma, and because I have been instructed by the President of the Central Union, I would like to state and record in the minutes of today's plenary session the comment of the Central Assembly on the reaction of SYRIZA MPs to what was shamefully said by MP Ahmet Yildiz, who came and threatened us in the Greek Parliament - here! - in the context of the debate - informing the subcommittees of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, speaking of consequences. His exact words were: "If the Greek Cypriots want it, the door is open. However, when mining in a region belonging to two countries is unilateral, this is not acceptable and will have consequences". Have you wondered, ladies and gentlemen, what the consequences this Erdogan girl was talking about? Ladies and gentlemen, Turkey, in our view, seeks war with Greece. So I say it again, if you finally understand it, and if everyone understands it in this Chamber, that Turkey is preparing for war, precisely because it is looking for it. This conclusion is documented and these evidence is known to all of you. So if, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you really believe that we should go into dialogue with Turkey and, in the same way, with the same method as you first applied and followed in Skopje and accept the Turks as equal interlocutors, then I would remind you that this is not the case, because it is not just the Greek army that is a residential army. It does not own illegal territory of a foreign country. So our equation with Turkey cannot stand on any reasonable grounds. So the only solution to the Turkish problem is to make sure that we are always ready for war and do what we can at all times, so that the Greek forces have at their disposal everything they need at the moment, at the moment, the second that will defend our country's national and sovereign interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. I should like to inform you that, by the end of this evening's sitting, ten fellow Members will be given the floor, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Xanthos, because he wants to develop a number of amendments. So I say these names to stay in Parliament and those of my fellow Members who have a programme to continue their programming. Mr. Papaelou from SYRIZA, Mr.Michalidis from SYRIZA, Mr.Georgiadis from New Democracy, Mr. Papadopoulos Athanasios from SYRIZA, Mr. Vorides from New Democracy, Mr. Session from New Democracy from New Democracy, Mr. Thraniotis from SYRIZA, Mr. Yoyakas from New Democracy, Mr. Mardas from SYRIZA, Mr. Vayonas from New Democracy. These are the colleagues who will speak tonight. The rest of you will talk tomorrow. We start at 10: 00 in the morning. Mr Papaliou, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, through the provisions of this bill, the National Health System is being advocated and strengthened on several aspects of it, both institutional and economic, and the institutional framework of private clinics is being modernised. I'll start with the last one. To date, the administrative and business model for the operation of private clinics has been binary since they are governed by different institutional and regulatory frameworks, depending on the timing of the establishment and operation of each private clinic, before or after 1991. Thus, there are two kinds of clinics, the younger ones founded on strict criteria and specifications and then existing (private clinics), for which there were more serious requirements. This draft law seeks an important institutional step towards rationalising the administrative and business model of private clinics, weighing between public health to ensure patients access to high-level health services and the necessary flexibility to strengthen the purely economic part of those engaged in this business. The National Agency for Public Health is established as a legal entity under public law. It is the successor of the CEDEFOP, the multi-pathic CEDEFOP, which becomes the successor of the latter's rights and obligations. The CEDEFOP, as a legal entity governed by private law, shall not be subject to effective controls and its institutional framework shall be weak. Its provisions are dispersed in various legislations, and there is even a problem of its functioning because of obsolete rules of procedure. For example, because of the above, to date no organic positions have been introduced for the staff of the institution, the addresses have not been activated, a coherent, clear and effective framework has not been put in place for its organisation. On the other hand, CEDEFOP has gradually expanded organisationally and administratively through the establishment of various organisational units by decision of the board of directors, which poses serious problems in practice due to overlapping of responsibilities, the creation of offices under the chairman, the management of out-of-organisation pyramid and the impact on the employment status of staff due to the lack of organisational positions. It is therefore necessary to replace the ERIC with the National Agency for Public Health, which is set up as a body to replace it, but also to extend its responsibilities for the prevention of diseases. Provision is made for specific provisions concerning the organisation of this new legal person and the establishment of departments, addresses and posts of staff, as well as for matters relating to the transition of workers, doctors and employees to the new body. The establishment of a National Institute of Neoplasms to formulate a national cancer strategy, which is one of the main causes of death in our country, is an integrated approach to prevention, symptomatic controls, early diagnosis, proper laboratory and clinical monitoring and any type of modern therapeutic approaches. Other drugs will only be prescribed through the electronic prescribing system with this special labelling ‘special prescription’. So, on the one hand, the possibility of monitoring prescription drugs is ensured, on the other hand, by avoiding the suffering of patients with serious chronic diseases and by reducing bureaucracy. The ESS is also strengthened by the establishment and functioning of National Patients Registers, aimed at ensuring faster diagnosis, better treatment, more effective patient monitoring, and more efficient management of health resources. Patients will be recorded to collect data and draw conclusions on the progression of the disease, but also on the effectiveness, safety and cost of treatment. There is also provision for setting up, maintaining and updating individual electronic health records, as a necessary prerequisite for the reform of primary health care (TIFs). It is considered that the individual electronic health file is the necessary and competent electronic tool to ensure continuity in care while being a prerequisite for a sound and effective application of the references. Another chapter concerns drug users. The marginalized drug users are many. In this context and on the basis of this data, it is necessary to establish closed sites for supervised use for medically controlled drug use for high-risk users. It has been widely documented by scientific evidence that such sites are zeroing the deaths of excessive drug use in the populations of users in these enclosed areas. The creation of these sites, therefore, is intended to limit public nuisance by users, who are often on the streets of the city, promote the health of the active users themselves, but also of public health, reduce the prevalence of infectious diseases in the population of the drug-exploited and, more generally, prevent and provide timely intervention to deal with overdose, mobilise drug users themselves and prepare them for inclusion in treatment programmes. Inspection sites shall only be operated by approved bodies after authorisation to be granted by a decision of the Minister of Health. In these enclosed areas, services will be provided for safer use of drugs and a reduction of the negative effects associated with it, in particular concerning the most difficult and heavy categories of users, who will be attempting to remove them definitively from the nets of traders. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I would say that some of the objections - raised in this regard - are understandable. The situation, however, in certain areas of the centre of Athens is tragic. Thus, services provided in these areas could include distribution of material for safer use of substances, information for users on the operation and possibility of direct access, gathering information on substances, recovering incidents, providing psychological support, referrals to social workers and resolving other socio-economic problems. This structure will be interconnected with direct access units so that people hosted in these areas have first contact with the public health system and other services, whether substitution or psychosocial support. Finally, this draft law clears up the competences of the National Transplant Organisation and achieves the renewal, rationalisation and codification of its institutional framework. However, the relative awareness of the population from school age is essential in order to integrate more and more donors into the system of registry and donor centres. In this way, the National Transplant Organisation will work effectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u139	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u140	I would like to make one final comment on the amendment by the Ministry of the Interior on changing the administrative limits for specific municipalities. After opening the debate, I think it should include other similar cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u141	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u142	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u143	Yeah, but we said that two minutes ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u144	I am referring specifically to the municipality of Gortynia, Arcadia, a municipality with great difficulty in accessing from one point to the other, with an ageing population and unequal development. It should be separated in order to make it work. The question has been raised with the relevant Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u145	Mr. Papaliou, Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u146	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u147	Yes, you've been saying that for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u148	On this basis, it is legitimate to expect that the establishment of the Management Committee for the First Degree OTA Division, the Advisory Body for the Interior Minister set up in the amendment, will in future allow for a review of the administrative boundaries of that municipality for the most appropriate and effective administration of local affairs. Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u149	You can understand, ladies and gentlemen, that if we are here to speak for ten minutes, we will not be able to leave in time we have said. Mr Michaelides has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Please, we've counted tolerance for a few seconds, by one minute, but let's not get away with it and get to two and three minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Health, which we are discussing today, deals with a number of issues and fields. I believe that overall, the regulations it proposes are part of the strategic framework adopted by the Ministry and the Government over the last four years, namely, the multiple strengthening and shielding of the role of the public health sector, the universal coverage of the whole population with efforts to improve the services provided and, finally, the rationalisation and strengthening of the regulatory and institutional framework, in a way that responds to the new social and scientific data. I would like to draw attention to some of the most important provisions of the draft law, in my opinion. With regard to the new operating framework for private clinics, it is clear that it is primarily moving towards removing the different existing regimes and introducing uniform rules. I think it has now become aware that the existence of different rules and regimes within a particular field of activity, whatever it may be, is a prescription for malfunctioning, maladministration and privileged treatment of some against others. The first part of the bill therefore sets out a number of conditions for private clinics with regard to their conditions of authorisation and operation, their administrative and medical structure, scientific operators, infrastructures, etc. I would like to point out the provision of Article 13 for the employment of administrative, nurse and medical staff under paid employment contracts. I would like to point out that this provision ensures, to a large extent, workers, including doctors and restricts the expansion of flexible forms of employment. In the second part of the draft law, of course, it is the establishment of the Single Public Health Organisation, which is intended to replace the CEDEFOP. The specific practices, carried out under the responsibility of the previous governments and in particular the New Democracy, by which the CEDEFOP has become a convenient and flexible vehicle to serve a variety of interests, but not of public interest and public health, are known. These cases have already been dealt with by the Committee of Inquiry and prosecutions have already been exercised by the prosecutors of corruption. They therefore challenge whether or not there is any other serious concern about the reactions of Officer Responsibility for the change of CEDEFOP and its conversion into a legal person governed by public law, which, of course, also achieves its integration into public software. Furthermore, the supervision by the new body of an extended number of public health diseases and issues, the fact that it is established within the framework of the special fund and research account, according to the standards of research and academic institutions, its interconnection with public health reference centres, are examples of the targeting for a more complete treatment of public health issues and of course the EGE in relation to CEDEFOP. With regard to the reasonable question of the possibility for the EGE to respond with sufficient urgency, the provisions of Article 54 ensure, in my opinion, the necessary degree of speed and flexibility, which will indeed be required in unforeseen circumstances. Subsequently, a particularly positive step is the establishment of the National Institute of Neoplasms. The articles describing this subject, i.e. the composition of scientific staff, the structure of services and administrative bodies, make it clear that this is the most orderly attempt to draw up a national strategy on cancer and, of course, to coordinate actions to prevent, treat, research and information. From the provisions of Part Three, let me confine myself to the following: the regulation of the establishment and operation of a 'Registries' patient register, which is described in Article 83. This is indeed the crucial issue of data management. It is an absolutely essential step primarily for medical diagnosis, treatment and research, but also for the general functioning and effectiveness of the public health sector. Furthermore, with regard to the provisions on the issue of drugs, I am thinking in particular of the provision of Article 91(3) for the creation of supervised sites, which is a bold method that has been tested in other countries with positive results in reducing damage. Literally, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the bill regulates a number of issues with a view to upgrading public health policies, strengthening the framework for socially sensitive and scientificly adequate treatment of health issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Michaelides, and actually next year. Mr Adonis Georgiadis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes and immediately after the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy Mr Kefaloniann.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, before I say the point on which I have come to speak, I would just like to remind my SYRIZA colleagues that for a few hours the SYRIZA candidate in Attica, Mrs Durou, has been persecuted for a hundred deaths negligently. He's being persecuted, Mr. Dritsa, for a hundred deaths negligently and remains a SYRIZA regional candidate. And that's for us to get together! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Now, I don't know why you're yelling in different ways. So far you have told us to watch what justice and the persecutions of justice are saying. I repeat, as much as you shout, SYRIZA's candidate district is persecuted for a hundred deaths negligently. She's the one you're downloading for Attica County and you still have her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u153	Have you heard of an accuser of yours who's being persecuted for paedophilia?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u154	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u155	Legal conversation with you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u156	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u157	It doesn't have a minute. As soon as the fellow Member in Stepma is finished, you can ask for the floor for anything on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u158	It's a challenge...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u159	With institutional processes Mr Polakis, as the Greek people have learned for several days now, has had some problems. I imagine, and I hope he has not been prosecuted for a felony in a few days for the illegal recording of the country's central banker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u160	Do you have any information from the prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u161	Minister, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u162	I said, I wish you hadn't been prosecuted. I believe in the presumption of innocence as opposed to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u163	Mr. Georgiadis, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to talk about a lot of things in today's bill that really makes a great deal of impression, such as places of control and the problems that can arise if this measure is not done properly, and about the development of CEDEFOP and the arrangements for private clinics. But, just before I began my speech, I read this amendment that you tabled, Mr Secretary of State for Health, on the pricing of medicines. I have heard, and you have said so in various interviews and in the committee, that you intended to do so. But I honestly thought you wouldn't. I read about the Greek people, to understand what the Greek Parliament is voting on today and what you are voting on, Mr Papadopoulos, the article on the pricing of original medicines in my own law and in the previous ones from my own laws. You will find it today in your amendment to the repealed provisions. ‘The maximum value of reference medicinal products under the protection of the first patent of the active substance is defined as the average of the three lowest values of the Member States of the European Union. In accordance with the above subparagraph, the maximum values must be reviewed regularly downwards whenever a price sheet is published, as defined in paragraph 4 and point 5 below.’ Again, what did my law say? The average of the three countries of the European Union and prices only downwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u165	Easyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u166	Let's go now see what "first time left" is voting, which wanted to chase us for "NOVARTIS" and I'll explain it right away. Now listen to what you are voting on, ladies and gentlemen: 'Price of the reference medicinal product within the protection period of its data and the reference medicinal product after the end of the period of protection of its data, in accordance with the provisions of the pharmaceutical legislation, is defined as the average of the two lowest prices of the Member States of the euro area'. In my own law the average of the three countries of the European Union and your own law, the two countries of the eurozone. And while my own said a price review downwards and just downwards, in paragraph you are voting, Mr Manda, which disturbs you: "For reference medicinal products within the data protection period and for reference medicinal products after the end of the data protection period, which are included in the latest price sheet published until the entry into force of this Directive, their price is only increased if it is lower according to the price list above by the lowest price of the euro area Member States. The increase in the preceding subparagraph shall be made in each review of up to 10% of the price immediately preceding price sheet with a ceiling of the lowest price of the euro area Member States.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u167	But you're not talking about reductions. Read it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u168	You're going to take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u169	Of course I'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u170	Minister, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u171	So understand what we're voting for. In the law that has so far been the case, the average price of medicines comes from the average of the three lowest prices of the European Union, all of the countries of the European Union, namely countries outside the Eurozone, that are countries of the former Eastern Europe, which have the very low prices on medicines. By your own law this changes and goes to the two Eurozone countries, namely the countries, Mr Papadopoulos, where the price of medicines is higher. In fact, there is an increase of up to 10% a year to reach the average of the two lowest prices in the euro area. I am tabling the amendment because I have heard disagreements. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What's that supposed to say to get in touch with us? He'll give the pharmaceutical industry a present he doesn't have a precedent. If I were Paulakis now, I would ask Blonde "how much did you get?" Because I am not Paulakis, I would like you to tell me, Minister, on the basis of what a Minister for Health decided to come to the Greek Parliament and to present a gift to the pharmaceutical industry, particularly to the foreign industry, to NOVARTIS, that is to say, and I will explain immediately why to the foreign industry. What did Mr. Tsipras say here and you have said it yourself? Paulakis said so too, but he doesn't understand. That Greece is a reference country. Isn't that what you were saying? And that any, no increase - because we were not making increases with our law - but rather a reduction appropriate, with a dumping of prices in the other countries, favoured 'NOVARTIS' and the other pharmaceutical industries because it kept their prices high in the rest of the countries. Isn't that what you were saying? Is that why she's not looking for us, supposedly, Mrs. Tulupaki? Yes, sir. You are not telling me, Minister, the impact and the gift on the pharmaceutical industry - why did you say about the prices and reductions you are making here, I am not saying that - the rise in prices in Greece does not raise the profits of the multinational industries throughout the world, according to what Paul and Tsipras said? Isn't that what you're doing? So tell me, now, after you have set up this whole process with NOVARTIS, and after you have been hitting suspicions for two years without finding anything, because there is nothing there, you come to the Greek Parliament, after Tsipras told us that we were supposedly favouring dumping prices in Europe and telling me about the Negotiation Committee and IFET and the others you are doing while giving them a gift on the world level, Andreas Xanthos, Paulakis and the 'first time left'? I would very much like you to explain why you are doing so. Honestly and trustworthy. And I'll tell you one last thing as former Minister of Health. Let's assume your government has decided to make a present to the pharmaceutical industry for the reasons, and I'm not talking about corruption, I'm talking about the policy you want to practice. What should you do today in the same law? You should have put an article that says that clawback goes by drug category, and then you would have the multinationals and NOVARTIS to pay for the money they are related to and much more than it pays today, then you would have put the same amount in the generics, to help the Greek pharmaceutical industry, since you say that you are interested in domestic production, and then someone could say, in any case, good enough to make a huge gift to the foreign pharmaceutical industry, but at least you find a way to help home-produced drugs. You didn't do that either. You're giving them a fuckin' money! That's what you're doing! Don't move your head, sir! I repeat, to understand it well: by your law that provides for 10% increase in time to the two lowest of the euro area, I stress it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u172	And I'll move it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u173	Mr. Georgiade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u174	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. It is an increase that will affect, Minister, and the participation of patients, because patient participation goes on the basis of the price of the drug you write in that it will increase up to 10% a year. And not only the protected medicines, because you maintain 65% against the prototype in generics, all medicines will increase accordingly. As much as an increase takes the prototype, this will increase all of the medications below. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u175	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u176	I would like to ask you extremely well: why, Minister, are you giving such a giant gift to the multinational pharmaceutical industry, NoVARTIS, including? I would like to understand very well why the Government of Andreas Xanthos and Polakis decided to give millions with the dumping of prices, as Tsipras said from this step, to the foreign pharmaceutical industry from the reference price, which is Greece, according to what you and now the price in Greece will go up with what you will vote on in a little while you move your head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u178	No, it can't be for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u179	No, we will not open a debate and dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u180	It can't be for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u181	It's a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u182	Everyone spoke a little more. Please, ladies and gentlemen! Do you want me to go down, you guys? Please! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u183	Mr. Georgiadis has a well-known tactic of strife and pseudology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u184	Prove it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u185	And if you were to bother not to rush to talk about the amendment before I present it, you might be able to get some answers. So you came here to present us with a narrative, that we are giving the pharmaceutical industry a gift, and we are setting up the invoicing system to favour multinationals, including 'NOVARTIS'. In fact, you are causing, Mr Georgiadis, at a time when serious judicial investigation is being carried out for a scandal - and not a craft -, proven, timeless, which all those present in Jerusalem know was there, that blew the drug expense over the past decade...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u186	Not for my day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u187	I didn't talk about you. ...and to which I wish it will not be shown that political persons, government officials, executives, executives of critical committees who have formulated prices, who have approved the medicines that will be compensated, etc., are involved at a time when your prolongation has ruled...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u188	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u189	Please, Mr. Athanasios. Please, not move the finger...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u190	We don't move the finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u191	Mr. Athanasios, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u192	...to a government and to a political leadership that opened this debate and brought the party's case to the public debate on health and medicine in the past decades, a party that was systematically covered and knows it all over the world. Let's go to the amendment. You've lost episodes lately. You have a lot to do, you have a great deal to do, and you have missed incidents. There is, therefore, a serious debate at this time with all those involved in the marketplace. We, Mr Georgiadis, have set up two instruments of institutional dialogue, one being the Monitoring Committee on Pharmaceutical Expenditure within the Ministry, in which all market participants are involved, and industry and EEA and the EOF and the pharmacists and traders and everyone, and in which problems are discussed, opinions and improvement proposals are made. Because everyone admits that we had a distorted system, which in the Memorandum years led to serious side effects. And a serious side effect, Mr Georgiadis, was that from the continuous undercutting, from the continuous price dumping, there were cheap and effective drugs, especially in the domestic industry, which were not able to have a sustainable place on the Greek market, they were withdrawn, replaced with other much more expensive and much more expensive, obviously, both for the EEA and for the citizens and we actually had an increase in expenditure these years with obviously no financial impact. So the first lie you're saying is that we're giving industry a gift. Industry, Mr Georgiadis, if you are following its announcements, is systematically attacking the government, that it has been brought to disrepute - listen! - charges due to clawback and rebate...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u193	It's my law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u194	And there are multinational companies that were currently threatening the Ministry to withdraw their medicines because they are unsustainable in Greek. Now listen. We, after an institutional dialogue and after a debate in the relevant intergroup committee set up by the President of Parliament to draw up a long-term pharmaceutical strategy and after having had an exhaustive debate, have brought in a new pricing framework, because we thought this was necessary after the end of the memorandum. As far as the memorandum was concerned, there was no debate, and there was the imposition of the two requests for review, and I did not hear you criticise us for that. Why have you not criticised us, for example, for doing just one review this year, and so, in your logic, we have had a present in industry? Why didn't you say a word? We did, then, a new framework and we did change the basket of countries, the basket of countries, because that is more transparent, more sustainable, longer-term...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u195	And more beneficial to industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u196	No, you're wrong! I'll prove it to you! There's evidence. Of the three countries of Europe, we go to the lower prices of the euro area and say, Mr Georgiadis, what medicines are underneath it, there will be one...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u197	Increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u198	...a slight gradual increase. And all the drugs that are above that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u199	There aren't any.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u200	There are! But listen! There have been studies and the result...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u201	Please, Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u202	Please, you won't interrupt me. Of course, there's been studies and I'll get it for you. Listen, in mid-stage...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u203	Minister, please, finish it! You've arrived seven minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u204	I'm sorry, but he's interrupting me. It's a very serious matter. Well, from the plus-out-out-up, an increase-reduction is shown to be equilibrium in the price level. And it is true that there is no financial impact, because in any case the budget is also closed for the extra-survivors and, of course, for the hospital expenditure. It is a more sustainable framework, which enables them to remain on the Greek market medicines whose prices had fallen too much. This is primarily about domestic industry and not multinational companies. The multinational companies also have very high prices from the continuous price lists. You know very well that the average decrease in on-patent medicines was too small. Mostly off-patent and generic drugs were affected by the continuous devaluations. So we are doing a balanced intervention, Mr Georgiadis, and all the people who are working on it know that. You, of course, come here to plunder and tell us that this government and this political leadership have found them with the industry. I don't want to say anything and imply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u205	Minister, please. You have your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u206	I don't want to imply. I really don't want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u207	Let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u208	And I hope that this investigation is carried out in an institutional and serious way to bear the true picture and to bear the real responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u209	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u210	We are therefore making an intervention which rationalises the framework after the end of the Memorandum. And it will be accompanied, and it will be understood, by a change in the compensation policy to be translated into a reduction in citizenship. Not to say, of course, the most important thing we have done, which has never been done by any government from you, that we shielded the system with an evaluation mechanism and a negotiation mechanism, therapeutic protocols and now in the bill, a register of patients, which you had not even thought about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u211	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u212	These are the structural measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u213	Come on, Minister. You have your speech. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u214	Everything else is talking about impressions to get a few seconds of publicity on TV windows.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u215	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u216	Wait a minute, Mr. Georgiadis. The staff requested by Mr Paulakis beforehand. I hope you, Mr. Polakis, don't get there in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u217	No, you don't have to. The drug's responded. Just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u218	Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u219	And I am augmented and I'm going to fill in this. Because you obviously learned that the finding was passed in relation to the objective of the damage of the Greek State from 2006 to 2014 on "NOVARTIS" and her medications, she has caught you black and hard tramurant, and you come here to those who have revealed, led the prosecutor to this story, tell us that we are doing the same. We're not the same. We're other cultures. And no matter how much you bark, no matter how much you shout, "you do gifts to pharmaceuticals," we don't look like. The Harvard project, you carried it out like a heated soldier of the people who ordered it to you. That's what justice will find. As much as yelling and squeezing and moving like Playmobil, we can't look like each other. Understood. We're not the same. And down with the hand. I want to talk about another one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u220	Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u221	You said a word earlier, again in the well-known popular way, that "Rena Dourou, who you have a candidate, was referred together with twenty other state officials, and the mayor of Marathon and the mayor of Rafina, and the others, for negligentness in the sad, terrible event that took place in Matti". Renaissance Duru answered, and she doesn't need my defense. And he answered a lot. And obviously, since he was at the district's governmental wheel, yes, he is also clearly responsible. Although, when the streams were folding and closing the beaches, there was nothing, there was ruled your prose and the PASOK parade that led to this evil mess that finally couldn't get that terrible event that happened to be resurrected. I would like you to have the courage in New Democracy to say a word about the person who was condemned for inaccessibility to minors, victims of trafficking, who others who did not have a diplomatic passport to escape from the country that made this story, to be condemned in twenty and ten years. Your frontier is, Georgiadis is also called, advisor to your leader at the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, with a diplomatic passport as a representative of Greece to the UN, in these countries, to protect, supposedly, the victims of trafficking. That's who you've been drinking the unspoiled water for. You have not found a word to say where he was convicted, you who respect justice. And that shows both standards. Well, I would very much like to hear a word of condemnation from the New Democracy Party and not attendances in support of this particular convicted criminal and adviser of your leader. That is why the tons of voice, low hands and fingers, when you talk to a party that its morality does not negotiate. We're not the same. We won't be. I was framed for a series of loans, because they had to cover on that day the revelation that your leader's wife got 800,000 euros from an offshore shipowner, the same who financed the "CORD", again with an increase in equity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u222	Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u223	I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u224	You don't know the matter! You don't know the matter! And that's why you didn't come out and talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u225	Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u226	Well, here's the field, here's where everything will be judged, and of course it's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u227	I think we have escaped the personal issue now and a lot has been said. Please. I don't know if you want anything from what you said, to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u228	Who? What about me? Rescind? What?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u229	Some expressions have been said. I have to say it. If you want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u230	All I can call back and it's in the hole is "catch." He's screaming. He's squeezing. What's his name?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u231	Okay. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor. And please respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u232	I won't talk that much. Mr Paulakis started by saying 'We are not the same'. But obviously we're not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u233	And we won't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u234	Mr President, in order to keep time, I must not be interrupted all the time. If I'm constantly interrupted, it can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u235	Come on, Mr. Georgiadis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u236	Obviously, we're not the same. When Mr. Nikos Georgiades was prosecuted, the next moment, in ten minutes, had been deleted from the New Democracy and we wished him a success in court. Now that Mrs Durou has been prosecuted, you are dating and supporting her. So, obviously, we're not the same answer. But now we're going to the big one, Mr. Xanthi, because I don't want to deal with Mr. Polakis anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u237	Not even a freshman in an amphitheater says that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u238	Come on, come on! Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u239	Now, can I explain to Mr. Polakis how capitalism works and what does it mean to buy a share in a company? It's too much!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u240	Not even a freshman in an amphitheater says that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u241	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u242	Mr. Xanthi, I repeat, I speak in good faith. I leave what justice will say about 'NOVARTIS'. Here we are, if he says, when he says. It's been two years, he's still saying. You have announced - not you, your party - seventy-seven times my arrest. For now, I'm fine here in the House and I'm talking. If justice speaks, call me! But now let's go to what you said about the law we're voting on today. First of all, you confuse the part of the daily hospitalization law, that it can't go under the KTHT, from the cost of daily hospitalization...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u243	Daily treatment cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u244	Healing, right. That's what I wanted to say. And you talked about the Keith, and I didn't talk at all about the Keith. Why didn't I mention it? Because I agree that prices should be protected downwards so that there is no replacement. I didn't even put it. But that's where you spent half your time answering me. Secondly, you said something that I did not say would have a financial impact. Of course it won't. Do you know why he won't? Why is a Minister of Health Adonis Georgiadis and a Minister of Health Andreas Loverdos and a Minister of Health Marios Salmas voted here for a law called clawback and for which a health officer at SYRIZA Andreas Xanthos said no. So don't tell me why it won't have a financial impact. It won't have a financial impact, because you're applying my law, clawback, that is. But I told you something else, which you did not answer at all. That you are presenting to the pharmaceutical industry because by raising the reference price - that is, what Tsipras said here in the House, unless Tsipras is lying - you are upping the price of the drugs of multinational companies around the globe! The gift is not made by the Greek budget to have a financial impact, Minister. The gift to the pharmaceutical industry is because by getting Greece out of one of the countries that lowered the price down, you allow them to upload their prices on the rest of the planet. And that's hundreds of millions of dollars, maybe even billions. And I asked you before why you're doing it. And you know what you've responded to? I don't know if you want to fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u245	Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u246	You said you were blackmailed by some pharmaceutical companies that they would withdraw medicines from the market because they are not in the interest of being traded in Greece. It was the exact phrase you used. That some pharmaceutical companies, you said, told us they'd withdraw drugs from the market because it doesn't interest them to have them in Greece. That's what you told us. In other words, "NOVARTIS" has come and blackmailed you and you're a blackmailer, you're changing the law. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u247	Minister, don't stand up! Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u248	I'm not finished yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u249	Minister, wait a minute! Mr. Georgiadis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u250	So, as far as the dumping of prices is concerned, you didn't say anything. I'm hanging up. You claimed that there are drugs that price them lower from both prices.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u251	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u252	I told you I was a good believer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u253	Someone gets down, someone stays stable, and someone grows up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u254	I told you I was a good believer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u255	Come on, Minister. I'll give you the floor later, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u256	So you will bring us by the end of the meeting, a list of medicines to check prices.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u257	Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up. That's out of staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u258	I claim that this cannot happen because the average of the lower three countries of the European Union includes the countries of Eastern Europe that have the very low prices, while the two countries of the euro area only include the rich countries, which have precise prices.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u259	Nineteen are the rich.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u260	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u261	Sure. These countries are the poor, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u262	But it's two, not three. The average of the two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u263	Minister, you don't sound!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u264	These are the poor, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u265	Come on, Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u266	And one last thing, and I don't know if you're gonna answer that. Why don't you now legislate together, clawback by drug category?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u267	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u268	We'll really drown the multinationals! To pay that money for by the multinationals. 3816 to pay for what they're responsible for!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u269	Mr. Georgiades! You're totally ignoring me! You're not listening to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u270	That's what you'll have to legislate on! Do you dare?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u271	Oh, shit, we don't dare!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u272	Mr. Mada, please. Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u273	I have explained from the outset that this intervention also includes price reductions and stable prices and a gradual increase where it is very low, below the lowest price in the Eurozone. And I said that in the medium term this is about the same price balance. So this theory that we're giving a gift to industry is a lie, Mr. Georgiades! Do you understand that? It's a lie! It's a lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u274	As to the dumping, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u275	It's not true! Because other industries will get a small increase in prices and others will have a fall in prices and some will remain stable. But the overall framework is more stable, more transparent, it has referred to countries with the same economic and social level. Isn't that what we want for our country? Do we or do we not want our country to monitor the euro area countries, to be on the hard core of the euro, to monitor the developing countries? It's a really balanced and very weighed one. And it is no accident, Mr Georgiadis, that overall industry and domestic and overseas have no say that we are making the privileged treatment of a piece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u276	Everybody wins.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u277	We're helping growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u278	Note the great problem at the moment of industry, dear Mr Georgiadis, it is not so much the price level, but it is mainly the overrun of the expenditure that has been in recent years and the great and growing clawback and rebate of the refunds they give. This is the great wound and great difficulty. And so we have said that we must go to a fairer distribution of clawback and we have already taken a first step - you have lost incidents, you do not follow it - where by combining 90/10, by putting the concept of growth, that is, the companies involved in the overrun, are more burdensome. And these companies, Mr. Georgiadis, are the multinational companies. And this year, this 90/10, we will do it 75/25 and will be even greater the burden of the multinationals. And SFEE, the representative of the multinationals, and PIF, the representative of the innovation companies, which is very critical of US companies. And the domestic industry is also making demands for protection. What do you have to say about all this? I have not heard your President speak in the presentation of the New Democracy programme about the medicine. Who are you playing with? What are you hiding? What are you going to do? Are you going to tell us? Are you going to tell us? Will the New Democracy be clearly placed in the big and serious problem of drug spending and how will it deal with it? Let's see what your alliances are and see what your dependencies are. Because we, Mr Georgiadis - and the whole world knows that - are the first to make six price sheets, which were not spoken by anyone, who was a pure process, that we abolished the price committee, which is not intervening with ministers, who are clear and comprehensible, rather than with transactions under the table. This story is over with us, Mr. Georgiadis. Do you understand? The market knows it, the whole world knows it, and at the same time it knows its responsibilities and political responsibilities, over time, the governments and their officials who have governed this country, on these sensitive issues. Well, please be serious and responsible to this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u279	Thank you. Mr Kefaloniann, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative for 12 minutes. Immediately after Mr. Papadopoulos and Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u280	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start with something the President of the New Democracy said yesterday, saying that he will send a letter to the European People's Party in order to expel the Hungarian Prime Minister's party from his rank. I think, ladies and gentlemen, with this move in practice, we are showing that we are clearly with the European authorities and we are clearly with all those who want to isolate the extremes in Europe. Unfortunately, I am saying this because we see from the point of view of SYRIZA that such moves or, if you wish, of similar regimes or even governments cannot do so. So we see a cover-up, for example, about what is going on in Venezuela where the people are starving and instead of an announcement from the SYRIZA, we are actually seeing a cover-up. We also regret that our country is currently at European level, after Hungary, second on the erosion of institutions. This is what all the investigations of independent non-governmental organisations show, and it is something that, ladies and gentlemen of co-existence, should regret you. I come to something I have heard from the Prime Minister at his meeting in the Central Committee, saying about the fold between progressive and conservative. I think no one doubts, at least by the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, that, in fact, not only conservative, but also backwardness, an impediment to something progressive, is something that Mr Tsipras regrettably defends. And I think no one will doubt that in the end the reaction to the establishment of non-state universities in our country is not progressive. Truly, you wonder if it is progressive to overestimate the middle layers and to undermine in practice the attraction of investment that the country so much needs. One wonders whether it is progressive in fact to oppose the proposal put forward by the New Democracy as regards Article 24 and protection against climate change. We also need to ask ourselves, after all, whether it is progressive to use the police to prevent mobilisation in prevention, reminding other dark times in our history, so that there are no responses to politicians in this government. A very brief reference, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make to the economy. We saw at the recent Delphi conference that the former President of the Commission, Mr Barozo, said that the markets do show great confidence in the future of Greece, because they won the victory of the New Democracy and Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u281	Mr. Kefaliannis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u282	He said so, Mr Marda. I didn't say that. Mr. Barozo said so. I mention what he referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u283	What predictions are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u284	Mr. Marda, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u285	We say that it is very positive that there is an upgrade of the Greek economy, unlike what you said at the time. Indeed, Kyriakos Mitsotakis on all his visits abroad, speaking with foreign leaders - has recently done so in Russia - is talking about attracting investment. Do you remember what Mr. Tsipras, who said "do not come to invest in Greece, do not come to invest in Greece because, when I become Prime Minister, I will cancel all these investments"? I say this because I think that the Greek people can make the comparison, you can see what the responsible political power is in the country and who, unfortunately, has led the country to the situation in which we have been in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, in the bill, I think I will not begin by saying that many of my colleagues and the New Democracy are wrong in criticizing the Ministry's leadership, saying that there is no legislative initiative in the last sixteen or seventeen months. I say this because, from my capacity as a parliamentary representative, I can assure you that in almost every bill tabled by the government, there are one or two amendments which concern the Ministry of Health, which are many times a whole bill. Many pages of bills, many pages containing several articles on the amendments, which could really be self-evident bills. They are amendments, of course, which, if you look at them, can be classified into three categories: firstly, micro-group arrangements of all kinds, of course, with the aim of attracting electoral clienteles; secondly, corrections to previous provisions; obviously, because the previous ones were expressly designed or written on the knee; and thirdly, legalisation - we are fed up with reading this, ladies and gentlemen of the government - by way of derogation from all the relevant provisions concerning the expenditure of the ministries. Of course, today's bill with the addition of a lot of unnecessary bureaucracy and the creation of new agencies, unfortunately, does not change the legislative philosophy of the Ministry's leadership. See, for example, Articles 81 and 82 of the bill amending the Ministry of Health. In our opinion, they include micro-participatory purposes, new addresses, new sections, all of which contribute to the logic of SYRIZA, a large bureaucratic and disgusting public. Mr Minister, if you look at the specialities of the heads of state, specialisations are chosen to lead the departments and addresses which, unfortunately, concern more about the logic of who they want to put in this position despite the logic of who should be in charge of this position. A characteristic example is that section I of doctors, dentists and pharmacists in the management of doctors, where it can also be headed by a pedagogical staff member. The same, of course, unfortunately also at the National Institute of Neoplasms. We are talking here about staff recruitment without a strategic action plan being drawn up. Qualifications shall be made without specifying the subject matter of the posts to be filled by such officials. Of course, we also go to the money laundering - it is Article 107 - where costs of EUR 15.3 million of the Ministry of Health's participation in the 2018 IGC are legalised. Of course, they are asked to be repaid again by way of derogation from the relevant provisions. Of course, there are similar references to Article 108. Two very brief words I will say about the abolition of the CEDEFOP, where there has been a lot of discussion for many colleagues. Unfortunately, Greece over the last few decades has faced a number of public health challenges, which, among other things, have been overcome - and I think they have been effective - in contributing to the work of the CEDEFOP. I do not think it would be beneficial to deny the work that has been done by this body. Of course, those of us who were also in the Committee of Inquiry on Health we know that CEDEFOP was, if you like, a kind of unique phenomenon of selective hearing, at least on behalf of the government majority, who chose to deaf or shout every time issues relating to the period 2015 were raised and then mentioned only in the previous period, which related to some complaints made by the Coupling. Of course, many of the complaints made during the period of 2015 related to the intimidation of CEDEFOP officials - we saw public complaints - many times alterations of protocols - also public complaints - and many times and opaque procedures regarding the conclusion of contracts. Of course, with the conclusion and examination of the three experts, the complaints made by the Deputy Minister of Health, who initially spoke about 230 million "black hole" in the CEDEFOP accounts, were banned. Then, of course, he dropped it to 90 million. But, to see the political hypocrisy of the government, of these 90 million, the 44 million concerned the period of Ministerial Minister, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, whom you have certainly rewarded. Mr. Tsipras rewarded her by putting her in the government shape. I ask: is it not ironic, is it not hypocritical to denounce previous periods, to denounce the New Democracy, the PASOK and the same ministers who have set up at the time, which you yourself have denounced and, in fact, then, to reward them and sit next door to the same cabinets as you, having positions and posts in your own government? I think at least, Mr President-in-Office, you should also say something about it. You may not report the same persons at the same time, with the same persons joining the same government. As far as the amendments are concerned, I think very briefly, Mr Minister, that unfortunately we are once again seeing a situation of poor legislation. They have been tabled and continue to be tabled around twenty-five amendments. In fact, about half an hour ago a new MEP's amendment was tabled - I will not make a nominal reference, I think it will be developed - which in any case we do not have the time, we do not have the right crisis and we have the idea of going into the process of commenting on these amendments since they are constantly being made at the last minute, and many times they concern bills and ministries which have nothing to do with this draft law. What we are looking at is that many of these amendments and indeed ministers are concerned with the area of your Ministry, so at least it should have been a better planning, better planning and not be seen again here as a Parliament of the Greeks that we are legislating in this rough way, in this bad way, in a scoring ultimately in a bill that is not practical, nor for those who will read it and be invited to apply it, nor, of course, for us who seem to be actually in this rough process. Very briefly, with regard to the amendment which I think is also relevant to the Ministry of the Interior for the division of the Municipalities, particularly Corfu, Kefalonia, Lesvos and Serbs - which is also the Minister responsible here - I think I am not going to dwell mainly on the fact that you are bringing an amendment that actually overturns the electoral process two months before the elections. You realise that this means surpriseing the candidates, which means surpriseing local societies, electoral combinations and, of course, mainly means sloppy and prosperous in terms of regulation. Nevertheless, I think the most important thing is that, unfortunately, this amendment does not take into account certain issues which may become dangerous in implementing the law. I say, for example, that the proposed divisions of island municipalities do not take into account the fact that there are services or municipal policies, the nature of which should not be horizontal but trans-popular. Take, for example, waste management, tourist projection, large projects of an island, water supply and sewerage. For the only service for which you have provision of an inter-university nature is JHA. I would like to ask you, Minister, what will happen, for example, with the tourist view? So, another tourist view will be given by the Municipality of East Samos, another Western Samos, another Lixouri, another Argostoli? What about large projects of an inter-university nature? What about Corfu's waste, for example? Do you know at the moment that although we are outside the tourist season, even now the single municipality of Corfu is not, in fact, able to collect the waste, because at the moment there is no legal area for the disposal of waste? Of course, with the provisions in the amendments you are actually tampering with in the air, as far as the clean-up service is concerned, and of course you are creating a serious problem in terms of managing this issue. Continueing for the Municipality of Corfu, you know very well that it has not published end-use balance sheets from the year 2014 to the year 2018. There is, of course, a reasonable question, as regards economic data and what is to be done with the split-up of the municipality: when will the balances be drawn up, the start of the new municipalities, in accordance with the amendment? How will the debts of the single municipality be shared when at least according to the last published figures of 2013, the debts of that municipality were around EUR 39 million, without taking into account the approximately 40 legal persons?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u286	What municipality did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u287	Corfu. And I'm telling you the latest figures are 2013. From 2014 to 2018 no data have been published. It is now called upon to split the municipality into three municipalities, so there is a practical problem. I think, Minister, that you should consider at least the amendment again, because I have highlighted the sloppyness of you. It's two months before the election. In fact, you are bringing a rough process or practical issues arise that we will find before us. Local communities of the newly fragmented municipalities will also find them in front of them inter-university issues, as well as in financial balance sheets. It is something that you should think twice and three times again before making this arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Mr Papadopoulos, Member of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, has the floor for seven minutes and immediately after Mr Vorides. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u289	Mr. Barozos was Mr. Kefaliannis, who in 2008 and 2009 assured that the Greek economy would have no impact on the global economic crisis. It is Mr Weber who did not say a word to the German Government, when Euclid Tsakalotus proposed a 1% reduction in primary surpluses and unfortunately vetoed by the German Government. Let it be! In the Standing Committee on Social Affairs of the Parliament, the multi-brand plan of the Ministry of Health was recognised as a very important intervention in modernising and reforming the diverse provisions governing private clinics, while also seeking to ensure the rights of workers in the improvement and upgrading of the organisation of public health services, transforming the precious - for public health - but bureaucratic and sinful CICO into a strategically important National Public Health Organisation. It is recommended that a National Institute of Neoplasms decide on the establishment of a National Register of Patients, an electronic personal dossier. E-government is practically moving on to health. It makes a number of other useful arrangements in the drug, in the evaluation of technology in health. And since the previous debate was too intense about what we are regulating in this bill, what has been said in the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Health and what Mr Georgiadis said, let us not forget certain things. In the intergroup committee of Parliament, Mr Georgiadis, we are having a very serious debate on long-term drug policy. Andreas Xanthos came twice to meetings of the intergroup. He has analysed all the planning for how to keep invoking and negotiating those medicinal products that are valuable and should not be withdrawn, because they are tested medicines and we should in any way create a balance in the way of pricing that allows us to intervene on generics, but also because we are listening to all the issues that are raised in the dialogue and the representatives of the domestic pharmaceutical industry, but we also take into account the national need to support the Greek quality generic medicine. The way in which the technology assessment committee operates is a scientifically documented way of demonstrating that we are making substantial interventions. But, at the level of Europe too, the initiative of Valletta, which has been taken at the initiative of our Ministry of Health, makes a great contribution to having much better negotiations on medicines that are expensive, for medicines that are innovative and which we need. If you are in the mood to hear the continuation of the debate and on Thursday that we have a meeting of the intergroup, Andreas Xanthos will be back to talk about all these issues. We must not shout in here on issues that can contribute very seriously to the development of a national long-term policy of drugs. I think, therefore, that with the issues that go into the draft law, we are too helpful to see some of the sins of the past again. Don't forget a little! Do you remember the Maniadakis algorithm? Do you remember how Maniadakis proposed a price invoice that only he knew his algorithm? Do you remember why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u290	It has nothing to do with what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u291	In the Committee of Inquiry and the findings of justice we are wondering - and we will see the findings of justice - how certain pharmaceutical companies benefited. And we do not forget the statement made by her Guardian "NOVARTIS" that, as far as you rule, she can intervene to the level of the Prime Minister. They're halved! So these issues enable us to talk about regulations which help us to resolve issues both for the public and for the private sectors. There are, of course, ministerial and parliamentary amendments, which resolve issues relating to pharmacies, the EKA, the development of patient relief hosts, the compensation of newspapers in Sisminoglio and other hospitals, on issues relating to public health doctors, on mobile primary care units and on many others. I also tabled an amendment to ensure that workers in health establishments, such as the Santorini Hospital, under AEMY, can be treated as workers in public hospitals. These are issues which contribute very much at a critical time for the country, which is for all of us in the election process. Therefore, instead of having a very serious debate on the essential issues raised in the Multifibre Arrangement, we have heard some demonologies from Members of the New Democracy starting from Venezuela and reaching the attacks on police stations and so on. However, in order to be able to contribute to a qualitative and effective health system, we should look at all these important issues. Some wonder why so many articles and so many amendments are involved. Because the loose ends, which exist in the health system and which need to be dealt with in this and in the next time, in which we intervene with another institutional strategic bill, are very useful to really have an approach for the needs of the citizens, for the needs of a system that from the old situation, the state of dismantling must go to what is the task of the new era: qualitative upgrading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Mr Vorides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of issues that cannot be avoided because they have arisen. I think they were aggravated by the government's responses. I am not saying that now to consider a criminal dimension, but there is a new given. The competent prosecutor considered that there were remote signs of guilt - that means moving the criminal prosecution - strong evidence of guilt about the issue of responsibility in Matty. Determined them. The responsibility in Matty, to know what it is, is a hundred homicides of negligence and hundreds of negligent arsons. Mr Paulakis placed himself on this point and said 'a joy, no problem, we are progressing properly'. This is the government's view on this matter. I imagine that it will be appreciated in terms of political responsibility - I stress it - of your nomination.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u294	Is that what he said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u295	That's what he said. He said "joy". I'm not talking about the criminal place. But I say that at the moment there is a new precedent, a judgement of a judiciary. On the political issue, Mr Paulakis, representing the government here said what he said, 'A good thing'. So a given one. Second given, Mr. Xanthi. Measuring beans, in particular, without any room for doubt on this, with no tensions and no acuity. The choice you make with this amendment is as follows. You are leaving the three countries of the European Union and going to the two countries of the euro area. Question one and simple: does this lead to increases? Answer one and simple: Yes. Secondly, because I hear 'no'. I heard Mr Polakis' answer. This is almost obvious to anyone who has dealt with the matter in detail. This leads to great increases. That's why to avoid big increases puts a limit on increases, 10% a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u296	And in the reductions, we put a limit on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u297	Otherwise there would be no need for the limit. He's worried about the big increases and he's setting the 10% limit. Next question. Is Greece a reference country? Yeah. Does this increase affect the profits of the multinational pharmaceutical industry as a whole? Answer simple and logical, there is no more here: Yes. Next question. Why are you doing this? Look out! Mr. Xanthos says that the budget is not affected. Why? Because there's a clawback. Yes, sir. Next question. The insurance price, the insurance contribution, what the insured person pays as a contribution is consistent with the price of the medicine? Is that a percentage of the drug price, Mr. Manda?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u298	When he goes down?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u299	Mr. Mada, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u300	Yes, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u301	And when he falls.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u302	Mr. Mada, common sense cannot be violated here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u303	That's what I'm saying. You say half the thing. You don't say the other half.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u304	Mr. Mada, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u305	You're leaving me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u306	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u307	Let me tell you why. And I'm telling you again very mild, very calm and very reasonable. The main argument put forward by Mr Xanthos was that because of a certain policy of lowering prices there was a question of substitution of medicines. Isn't that what you said? What does that mean, Mr. Mada? This means that many medicines are so cheap - that is what some industries say - 'it is not of interest to us to release them'. And threaten the Minister to withdraw the drugs from circulation. Not only threatening this Minister, by the way. Georgiadis went through this. That's what I've been through. That's the threat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u308	Not the cheap ones. The expensive on-site medications.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u309	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u310	So the Minister says: 'I make this choice, because this option will lead to increases, so I will not have the issue of substitution of drugs'. There is no doubt that this option leads to increases. I ask: will the insured person pay more? Yeah. Therefore, because you have a claim for weighting, I very much urge you to table the list in order to see specifically the impact.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u311	I'll answer you right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u312	You can't have that list and I'll tell you why. Because you don't have that algorithm, that equation. He wants too much work to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u313	I have the numbers. I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u314	At the moment it is impossible to submit the list. Therefore, it is a claim that is not supported. I still have one final question for that. Why do you put a maximum reduction in offpatent and do not make a maximum reduction in generics? Why? Normally, generics should be interested in the lower limit of reduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u315	So we'll also have reductions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u316	I'm saying that in the forecasts of reductions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u317	You're telling us that some drugs will fall too much. Decide what you're saying! Let's get together!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u318	I'm saying something simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u319	Minister, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u320	You order us that... in generics (not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u321	Minister, there is no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u322	You know I'm never sad about vacations. Just not to waste our time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u323	The Minister doesn't sound. And it's interrupting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u324	I don't mind holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u325	I'm giving you food to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u326	Sure. So I say this. This in the vast majority of cases you do will lead to increases. In any cases that led to reductions, you put a maximum reduction in off-patent. You don't do the same, you don't put a maximum reduction on generics. Another privileged treatment here of multinationals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Look out! I'm putting one last. Will you make this weighted one differentiated in clawback distribution? For another is the contribution of expensive original medicines to pharmaceutical costs, and another is the contribution of generics. Do they have to be treated differently? Will you do it? Go ahead. So I conclude with that because, in my opinion, the issues are simple. If I may, Mr President, I would like to raise two things for the controlled areas. I would like to point out this. Irrespective of the principle of principle you may have in the areas of controlled use, your provision is - I do not know if you wanted it - extremely dangerous. And I'm saying directly why. Controlled use sites. Who should this be about? Whatever, I say again, if anyone agrees with that or not. I'm not a friend. I don't think he's going to solve this. But let us say that you think it helps. What's the point? Toxic-dependent not to be abandoned and in public view during use and to go to controlled use. I ask directly: is this about toxic-dependents alone or not? That's right. Because the wording is the following and I am reading it to you. ‘The possession and use of narcotics by persons receiving the services of the premises and within the above supervised areas provided that they are entered in the register of receiving services is not an unfair act’. What is the condition? They shall be entered in the register.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u327	How's he gonna sign up?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u328	Allow me. Who can be entered in the log? Answer: Where does he say he's just the drug addict? Show it to me, please. It opens a window for any user. This also comes essentially into indirect legitimacy in specific areas of use. Mr. Mada, you're in a hurry. Listen. What does our law say? Use prohibited.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u329	Finish this, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u330	Let me give you a minute, Mr President, because I want to talk a little bit about the amendment on the municipalities. I really understand I'm taking time, but I need two minutes to finish this argument and go to the municipalities. So what does our law for users say? Use is being punished, wrongly, but punished. What does our law say about addicted users? They are guilty of the use, they are free because they are dependent, the court finds drug addiction usually with expert paper and they remain unpunished. The privileged treatment of impunity is for drug addicts, not for everyone. Here anyone who makes use may, regardless of whether he is dependent, declare that he wants to do so in a controlled space and use it legitimately. If your intention is drug addicts, you have to fill in something. So it means it's for everyone. I'm coming to the municipalities. I recognise, Minister, directly that there are obviously issues and malfunctions have occurred in various municipalities. I recognize it directly. My question is one and it is very simple: what is the criterion for partitioning? You set theoretical criteria in your explanatory statement and then you come and say: "Two municipalities, Lesvos, three municipalities, the much smaller Kefalonia, no breaking in Rhodes and Chios, three municipalities in Corfu, and suddenly one mainlander". Why a continental guy? Why don't we make more continental ones that have emerged? You say we will see them in the committee in the future. And why don't we see everything in the future? So you come three months before the elections, something less than three months, to create new municipalities. And be careful what I'm telling you right now. The combination of the municipalities is an easy thing. The services are packed, they're pooled. The fragmentation of the municipalities is a very difficult thing. Why is partitioning the municipalities a very difficult thing? Listen, the partition of the municipalities will give birth to issues. Who gets what? Staff questions. You put four months of transitional agencies to which they have to agree - voluntary workers - who may not consent. Meanwhile, what if the workers don't consent? Will the municipalities stay without workers, where they don't consent? You're putting matters of property. How are you going to split the property? How is the allocation of debts going to be carried out? I read the provisions very carefully, and I tell you that, with certainty, major involvement will be created for those who do not have the experience of this process, I say again, a legal person far simpler than the municipalities, with private legal relations, a public limited company, if you want to break it in two, needs a lot of work, he wants a lot of trouble, he wants a lot of attention, he has a lot of difficulty. There is a huge issue that cannot be tackled in the clipboard way that is being dealt with here. So while you would have the opportunity to build a real consensus, because Mr. Athanasios recognizes the issue of necessity...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u331	Mr. Voridis, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u332	I shall conclude, Mr President. Other Members also recognize it. What is now being created here? Be careful, it's actually the product of your inner party bra de fer. Some have more influence over decision-making centres, some have less, some want to break and others have not been able to do so, some have managed to do so, but eventually the ones to be charged by this rough option are the public. The CEDEFOP tells you, we tell you, everyone tells you, but you insist that you do this now, and I say again, while we recognize the real issues. In Kefalonia, for example, a matter arises immediately for a particular community. And you know that, you've discussed it with the mayor. You'll take her from here and take her from there. When you open this conversation, fate arises such issues. It's not time, it's not the way. There is a very big problem. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u333	Mr President, I would like to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u334	Minister, you cannot answer every Member. I gave you the floor, with a lot of time and tolerance...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u335	Mr President, I would like to mention a number.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u336	You'll take the floor. Note them and you'll answer in total. Don't do that to every fellow Member, because there will be other issues coming up. Mr. Treasury has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, the government's bill is dazzling, it opens up issues and it does not resolve the basics. How will health provision for citizens, Minister? Their suffering in public hospitals is incredible, of course in health centers as well as in the other local units of all grades. What do we observe in this bill through our own reading? Only a series of charismatic provisions, but also a preposition for new party recruitment. After using CERNOS as a mud launcher, you are now building through this party state in health, through new recruitments that are expected and appointments, simply changing its name, that is, simply making paints, creating a stiff and bureaucratic state organism. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Iason Foila, has referred in detail to all these issues. I shall refer to an issue which, for over four years, has been the thorn for Evros and, above all, for the area of central and northern Evros. He was hurting all the residents of this area. This concerns the self-sufficiency and autonomy of the Dumot Hospital. Since 2015, all health ministers have promised her when visiting the county, but have not done so. More than four years of great struggles have passed. By transferring the climate of local society over four years I have tabled three topical questions, four written questions and three parliamentary reports. Tonight is a special evening for the Dumotich, Orestia and Soufli, because the amendment tabled by the relevant Minister gives self-interest and autonomy to the local hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u338	That your government didn't give! You didn't pressure us, we chose to do it! We're explaining so we don't get any misunderstandings!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u339	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u340	Welcoming, Minister, this selfishness, because it emerged after the struggles of the local society as expressed by the local Metropolitan Mr. Damascus, from local mayors, from all institutional actors, from cultural clubs and above all from the inhabitants, because they sought to ensure their self-respect and self-protection through the proper functioning of the local hospital. But, Minister, this evening we also want a clear position from your mouth. Then, indeed - and with regard to the Deputy Minister - of my relative question on what steps will the Ministry take, if we ensure the self-sufficiency and autonomy of the hospital, which we discussed here in plenary in June 2018, what have we called for because of the failure of the hospital? It is true that, despite the valuable effort of workers, difficulties are encountered in its proper functioning, such as the shortages in medical, nursing and auxiliary staff, who have been and are serious, as well as the need for logistical equipment, while, in addition to the forthcoming retirements and withdrawals of medical staff, they have weakened and weakened the functioning of the institution even further. For example, Mr. Deputy Minister, in every detail, the problems the hospital faces were mentioned. You've seen all the pomegranates. In view of tonight's self-sufficiency and autonomy you grant after four years' struggles, we want you to commit to giving a dowry to this hospital in order to be able to stand on its feet, because only the workers and the locals have taken this up, not you. If you do not do what we are asking for a smooth transition to full autonomy and autonomy, then we will now accuse you of being drugized as well, because you know that very soon you will leave the country's rule and want to leave 'black land'. I also describe two things about the situation in this hospital. On 22 February of this year I submitted a parliamentary report because the artificial kidney unit is unable to serve additional patients because of the lack of nursing staff. The result is that the nephropaths of the north and central Evros are moved day by day about 200 kilometers to go to Alexandroupolis Hospital, in order to be submitted...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u341	It's five people!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u342	Nobody, Mr. Caesa! No, five! The five represent families!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u343	Don't give me that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u344	Don't start dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u345	And I am very sorry that you - who have been sent here by the Hebrews - behave in this way. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u346	Don't be sorry! You did it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u347	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u348	The result is that central Evros kidney patients face serious problems, Minister. I'll give you two phone calls from patients and residents of the Elafochori Twins and the New Orestiads to describe the situation. Indeed, you will feel sorry for these people and at the same time, but you will feel - I am sure you have a sense of responsibility - a very serious responsibility for this situation facing twelve patients in central and northern Evros. Also, Minister, besides giving you the phones we are waiting for the answer to my question 15 days ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u349	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u350	In conclusion, I would also like to refer to the issue of the health centres that you have left them in their destiny. A characteristic example is in these days the Health Center in the New Orestiad Triangles, which is in a marginal state of being subordinated. I am presenting for the Minutes of this House the invitation to do so - a resolution of the local clubs and bodies of the seven hurt villages of the Triangle of New Orestiad. Mr President, it is the area from the Arda River to Ormene, the geographical area with the seventeen villages and centred on the Right. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastasios Disochakis, presents for the minutes the invitation - resolution referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] To understand the size of the problem, the health center has no pediatrician, no dentist, no microbiologist and no radiologist. I ask you, are you all familymen, were you willing to stay in Ormene and be 50 kilometers away from Orestiad that you could find the same doctor? If you had your children, would you have stayed there and even the Triumph?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u351	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u352	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to explain to you and to inform you of a constant request from the inhabitants of all these people who live in Fairness, because the health centre there has an intensive responsibility for the seventeen villages I have mentioned. On Friday they have a gathering, Mr Caesa, almost all the villages to protest about the malfunction of the Centre for the Health of Laws. It's the country's northern health center. These people are sixty years old and have the courage to claim. And I believe, Minister, that it is worth the effort of a colleague here in the government majority...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u353	Mr. Colleague, please. We've reached eleven minutes. You cannot all speak from ten minutes or more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u354	It's worth it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u355	It's all worth it. All colleagues deserve what they say. You can't speak for 11 minutes. You are not Parliamentary Representatives. We said we'd finish at 12:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u356	I'm closing, Mr. President. I have been appealing to the Minister lately to deal with this matter personally. It is worth it, Minister, to deal with the Centre for the Health of the New Orestian Triangles, because the problems as I described them are very serious and you, as a doctor, understand even more than I have described. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. All three ministers have called for the floor, Mr. Haritsis, Mr. Xanthos and Mr. Paulakis. Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor, because you have been asking questions for two minutes. I'm going to ask you to keep them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be very brief. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] First of all, Mr Voridis, I think you have suffered a stumbling block, which would be a good thing to rectify. I refer to Mrs Durou's case. You've spoken of detached readings. You know very well as an experienced criminalist that the evidence of prosecution is simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u359	If you're covered by simples, then simples.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u360	The shade readings are a completely different story. What we politically care about here, because here we are not...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u361	I accept the correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u362	Because we are not a court here, therefore, it is politically important that Rena Durou has politically assumed their responsibilities. We would expect the corresponding responsibility for all those who over time have been responsible for the fact that we have arrived in this urbanly unresponsive landscape in the region, which has also led to the destruction. I now come to the point of the amendment, because a number of issues have been raised by both Mr Kefaliannis and Mr Voridis. You blamed us for clandestine. But you both admitted yourself - and I said so in my speech, if you heard me - that this very matter does not have the simple procedure that a group of municipalities can follow. We are talking here about a complex procedure, which requires time, which requires that the services take action on this issue, and that is why we are bringing these specific provisions on these specific cases, because they are cases that are more mature, which all the criteria we have set are met, and we think that it is the best solution at this juncture for the specific cases to go ahead. You could accuse us of sloppy if we brought in instead of five, fifteen, twenty-five, you know very well that the demands throughout Greece are too much. So the fact that we do not go to one if you want a massive and far-reaching change in the rules of KALIKARATIS, but we are moving towards specific cases, which are really mature and face the consensus of local societies, I think you should see this as an advantage of this regulation rather than a disadvantage. And here, too, because we talked about the combination of local societies - and I am surprised that you are telling me why we are moving forward in particular and where the preference - if you would like - is - in specific cases, when I have recently stated to you, your officials, Mr. Kasapidis of the MP of Kozani, who is in favour of the division, of the New Democracy that says yes to the break-up of Kefalonia, of Mr. Tenders on Corfu earlier that speaks of the need to create three municipalities on the island of Corfu, of the Mayor of Samos, who was even informed today that he is going down with the Eurovocate of New Democracy in the next elections, who sent and asked himself for the break-up of the Municipality of Samos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u363	We didn't deny necessity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u364	So the necessity and maturity of the specific cases we face, we think they cannot be called into question by anyone. Because you have also raised a number of issues, let me say - and I say this without much tension - that you need to reread the amendment more carefully. Because in the explanatory statement, but also in the provisions themselves, there is a clear answer to many of the questions you have raised. For example, in staff issues there is no voluntary movement as you said in your place. A transitional OIE is created and, through it, after 1 September, the existing staff will be transferred to the young people under the establishment of municipalities. There is no such process of voluntary movement. Furthermore, since the waste issue, which is indeed a very crucial issue, the FECH, who are aware that in most cases also legal entities governed by public law, are still in existence today. So, for example, in the case of Corfu, and with the three municipalities that are created, FITISA, who exists today, SYDISA, maintains its operation and continues its work to date. There is therefore no question of waste management. There are questions, of course, concerning the management of waste in this area, but it is not about the splitting up of the municipalities. So what we are doing is what - unfortunately, I would say - has not dared any government earlier, namely to move on to these mature interventions, which also meet the consent of local societies and, through them, to see in second time what other cases need to be addressed and to be able to move forward in the next period and in more interventions. Because, indeed, there are other malfunctions in the 'CALL' that need to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u366	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u367	What do you want, Mr. Polakis? You're asking me for the floor persistently.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u368	I want to give Mr. Prussakis an answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u369	He didn't say anything personal, though. I should normally not give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u370	Ten times he appealed to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u371	You have a minute, Minister. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u372	Let me make something clear. First, Mr Prussakis, to make things clear, because two and two do four, they do not do fourteen. The disconnection of hospitals and not only of your area, but also of the University with the State of Larissa and Venizelio with the University in Heraklion and the islands of the eastern Aegean, is a political choice for our Government and not a result of the pressure you specifically exerted on us. Because this pressure would be a good thing if you exercised it when you ruled. When Lover joined them before and after you ruled over the Samara government. I don't think you'd do anything then. And because in your area, in fact, in those years when you were government, Alexandroupolis Hospital sucked down the Two-Tower Hospital, because with the block of appointments that were in existence, people were retired and they covered the gaps by downloading staff down, then I didn't see you doing anything terrible and terrible. So don't try to insulate something that doesn't belong to you. It's not yours. Explain yourself so we don't get any misunderstandings. Secondly, like all hospitals in the country, which we have received in a broken state because of your ministers and the policy of your governments, we have balanced them. And the Dumotich doesn't get the same money today as what he was getting in 2014. In the questions you have asked, I have answered you with specific details and with amounts and with staff numbers. Also, as you would have seen yesterday - I don't know if you noticed, SKAI didn't play it, it's a given, nor will the "Truthstuffs" write it down - yesterday we announced with the Minister of Health and the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction two and a half thousand staff a year for the next four years, making use of the rule "one to one". You don't ask your Chief a question - if the devil breaks his leg and becomes a government! - what about 'one to ten'? "Black is the night in the mountains, in the hubs it throws snow" will be the Dumotique in terms of staffing. Explain yourself, don't get us wrong! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u373	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u374	Mr. Treasury, there's no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u375	I want the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u376	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm not giving you the floor, Mr. Treasury. Sit down. Mr. Thraniotis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u377	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u378	Mr. Treasury, please don't ask me at all. There was nothing personal. If there was anything personal, I'd give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u379	Politically I spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u380	Mr President, I am surprised! He hinted on several occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u381	You mentioned many times too. I think the debate is closed here. Mr. Thraniotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on Modernisation and Reform of the Private Clinics Institutional Framework, the establishment of a National Public Health Agency, the establishment of a National Institute of Neoplasms and other provisions is necessary to simplify the process and the functioning of the structures, with a single objective: improving health services to citizens. The need for improvement and aid was identified and accepted by a large majority by the bodies during the hearing. And in response to those who questioned the consultation, the bodies who were invited to the hearing are directly related to the health sector. The prospect of improving the health structures of the public system is reinforced by the change in the relationship of withdrawals from 'one to five' during the memoranda, to 'one to one' achieved by the current government by negotiating and leaving the memoranda. To understand the size of the reduction in staff, in six years we had thirty departures and six recruitments, with the 'one to five'. Already approved by the joint ministries four thousand recruits of doctors and six thousand nurses in the next four years. For 2019, there are a thousand doctors and a thousand five hundred nurses. This perspective is contrary to the Qualified Opposition and its Leader, immoralists of the extreme neoliberal policy, to dream of restoring the "one to five" relationship, declining staff, in order to depreciate public health and its tradition in the private sector. This also demonstrates that doctors are abundant in public hospitals, but also from the declared position that the provision of health services to citizens can also be done by buying services from the private sector. This, moreover, also implied by the rapporteur for Officerial Response today, saying that the country's bankruptcy - please listen - did not come from the smuggling of public money, from abuses, from the companies offshore, Panama Papers and Cayman, but came from obsession, from ideology towards detention. What does that mean? It means that the public health system will be delivered to the private sector and whoever has money can be well. It is something that has become noticeable in the years of the memorandum, when about two and a half million citizens, 1/4 of the population, have been found uninsured because of the crisis in our country, thereby losing their insurance cover. It is those uninsured who were called to pay EUR 28.00000 certified tax debts from the free treatment you had established and deleted by Law 4486/2017, as well as the 150,000,000 debts that were frozen and not established by the same law. This is so that we do not forget who created the crisis and who poored the Greek people. The bill establishes the National Agency for Public Health to replace the CEDEFOP, aimed at the operational organisation and dealing with the problems of public health, the establishment of a body managing public health problems, the transition from CEDEFOP to the new organisation. It is a body which has been devalued by the mismanagement and policies that you have carried out, such as recruitment without procedures, the purchase of the EUR million vaccines which are not used, nor can they be destroyed yet, but also the unlikely and inventive ones, the abolition of disparities between foodstuffs. The same honour was the meat with lentils, briam, spinach. It was 12.50 euros the meat, so was the lentils. This is one of the lists submitted to the Committee of Inquiry into the Health scandal and cannot be disproved. The National Institute of Neoplasms is also recommended. The establishment of the Institute is aimed at developing a national strategy on cancer, as it is one of the main causes of death both at national and global level. The burden of the environment, intensive farming and unreasonable use of pesticides, often carcinogenic, which enters the body through the food chain, environmental pollution, smoking which really harms health, require the creation of a body responsible for recording, sorting out possible causes, early diagnosis, public information, actions aimed at preventing and managing neoplasms. An important parameter is also the establishment and functioning of national patient registers, as well as the individual electronic health record, containing information on the state of health of the citizen, so that the Ministry is aware of the general health profile of the population. The renewal and modernisation of the functioning of the National Transplant Organisation and its adaptation to the modern era, and the National Register of Dogs of Antigens of Haematopoietic Cells will make a positive contribution to the treatment of corresponding diseases. An important and positive direction is the creation of multi-powered centres to address the crisis of drug users and alcoholism to address the problems of dependent people in a controlled and supervised manner. Here, let me make a comment. Let both people be able to escape through these supervised areas of death, it will be an important contribution to these people. All this is very important and could not be planned and implemented with restrictive policies within memoranda. The exit from the memoranda laid the foundations for the country's development. This is evident from the creation of three hundred and fifty thousand new jobs, the reduction of unemployment from 27.8% in 2015 to 18% in 2019, the creation of twenty-eight thousand new jobs in February. The increase in the minimum wage also gives an answer to the reservations and negative criticisms of the measure. Is it a good thing that unemployment is being reduced or not? You say - and we agree on this - that growth will come through investment. The reduction of unemployment and the creation of new jobs does not mean that? The increase in exports with a 15-year-old record doesn't mean anything? Is upgrading the country's credit rating a positive sign or not? The entry into the markets at interest rate level not in 2014, but in 2006, is not a positive sign? Even today's version of the 10-year bond confirms positive development as a clear approval from the economic recovery markets, a few days after the two-stage upgrade by MODY'S. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. They are said to be 'REUTERS'. The increase in the minimum wage and the abolition of the subordinate I know that it does not find you in agreement, but it creates more optimism and hope for the workers and especially for the young. But away from us, the reason that the problems have been solved is that there are no difficulties. But they are positive signals that we leave the crisis behind and face the future with optimism. The citizens - especially those who have lived through the consequences of the crisis - have understood who is to blame for the crisis, who have led them to the memorials, and who have taken them out of them. Be sure to decide who really defends their interests. I'm sure you won't be among them. You're going to stay relayed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u383	Thank you. Mr Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes, followed by Mr Mardas and Mr Vayonas. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u384	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a multi-brand plan which has the usual problems with the way the government legislates. I am referring to the many different and in some cases charismatic provisions that come to be voted on. As a New Democracy, we expressed our objections to key parts of the bill. With regard to private clinics, we have talked about the exclusion from the authorisation of persons convicted of specific acts and, first of all, of certain outdated clinical standards in the Annex, about the need to treat, where appropriate, those clinical subjects legally working, but not complying with the criteria laid down in Article 8, so that jobs and investments are not lost, but also about restrictive and unreasonable contracts of conditional employment for the medical and nursing staff employed. I would like to comment on a few points about private clinics, which may not have been given the attention they deserve in committees. For example, it is not understandable why ICP members cannot open a clinic while they can have a private doctor. I would like you to tell us, Mr Ministers, where does it turn out that there must be an upper limit of beds in private clinics and, in particular, in psychiatric hospitals? You also need to see how it will be provided for the obligation for clinics to apply the regulation on the management of hazardous medical waste. With regard to the EAFRD chapter, I would say that even if you have the best intentions, we have our objections to the new scheme. It's not just the flexibility that an NPV can have in relation to a NPV. It is also the political custody of the administration of the new organization by the Ministry of Health. It is the self-contained transfer of staff, even in personal positions, without an evaluation prior to take place in accordance with the establishment plan. It is the provision of regional workshops and regional EGEs in northern Greece without telling us why you do not use the public health addresses of each region and what they will eventually do. Finally, it is what you have subsequently done in relation to the National Foundation for Neoplasms. The way in which supervision is to be exercised by the Ministry of Health you do not foresee it for the EGE. I am afraid, Mr President-in-Office, that the new organization would simply "change Manolius and put his clothes in different ways". A comment now on the National Foundation for Neoplasms. We agree with the view that there is a point of reference for information, prevention and treatment policies. However, as you put it, like an empty shirt, it is a symbolism movement rather than a substance, especially when funding has not been guaranteed. With regard to the changes to the institution of the Ministry of Health, first of all - and let my fellow lawyers confirm this - the amendment of a presidential decree with provisions of law, especially when we are talking about a recent decree in 2017, any other good legislative practice is, of course, a witness to the sloppyness with which you yourself designed the structures. I will only focus on the forecast for the creation of an independent health tourism section. Honestly, this is a monument of statement. There are patterns and tools that market players can use to promote medical services abroad. I'll say something important, too, for the personal data controller's office at the Ministry of Health. In accordance with the European Data Protection Regulation, the controller shall designate the processors, for example the HR, and must commit them to a relevant contract. In other words, any change in HRP’s obligations in relation to the individual electronic health file must also be mentioned. Furthermore, it should be determined whether the EEIG and the private insurance companies will conclude confidentiality contracts and will also be performing the processing with HICP. At another point, we would like you to explain why you are abolishing the register of medical devices and suppliers from the "EKPTY S.A." and transferring this responsibility to the EEA. All you are causing is overconcentration of powers and direct control by the Ministry's political leadership. As for the articles on retrospectives and ex post money laundering, all I want to comment on is: "What have you had Yannis, what I've always had." Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy will not follow the 'no' isotopic logic of everything. We will not do what you have done as opposition. That is why we will be voting in favour of those provisions that we believe can really solve problems and not just create impressions or more problems than they are supposed to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. Mr Mardas has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for seven minutes. Here comes Mr. Vagionas, the last of the speakers. And the Minister will close. It will develop not only the parliamentary amendments but also the ministerial amendments and it will make two comments on what we have been discussing. Here, Mr Marda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u386	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Interior, which refers to No 3852/2010 and then to some articles in this law. The Kappastyreia - as we know - brought together a chaotic situation in the municipalities. But KALIKARATIS, in many cases, has led to over-concentration of municipalities, thus creating a great many problems, particularly in the field of regional development. Municipalities with too many villages are very difficult to run, so they face many problems. I am referring to a case of this kind in Thessaloniki. There we have the Municipality of Lagada with forty-seven villages. The Municipality of Stavrou has thirty-eight villages. And in the context of the municipality of Lagada is Soho. It's a historic area and it was a historic municipality. A proposal was made, in the context of an effort aimed at creating the Municipality of Soho with thirteen villages, which would come from the breaking of the two above-mentioned municipalities. The mayors were and are agreed and are clearly created a more functional shape. So this effective solution was given to the Interior Ministry. We were pleased to see that the Minister, in the context of the special municipalities associated with mainland Greece, first referred to Soho and then to others. And clearly, within the specific administrative division review committee, we need to take special care of mainland Greece and, where necessary, make the appropriate cracks. Of course, the Municipality of Sohu is one of those who should have a major priority. It is a mountain municipality, a solid municipality, which can function in a very effective way. I come to some articles. Mr. Fotillas is gone, of course. I am referring to Article 54 of the law. Mr. Fotillas referred to direct assignments. Look, this is not the time to do public procurement courses here, but it is another direct assignment and the negotiation process without prior publication. The negotiation procedure without prior publication provided for in the draft law is a process which was implemented in 1993 with the first European Union directives and was incorporated into national legislation. It is a process in which three candidate suppliers are called upon in emergencies, a negotiation, a bargain and through this negotiation comes the best offer. It has been shown that the negotiation process - not only this, but the negotiation process also applies in other cases - is the most effective form in the field of public procurement. Because, as you know, the market - as we say in the language of the street - 'cleans' with the help of the bazaar, with the help of the seller and buyer - find the best solution in both price and quality. So don't confuse the negotiation process with direct assignments. I come to Article 90, which refers to the prescribing of drugs. It's a very good article. The digitisation of the whole process will lead to much better results. On the occasion of this article, however, I would like to point out the following: perhaps we should rethink Law4339/2013 - which refers to drugs - and discuss some of its provisions, given that it has not solved these problems so far as a very large degree. Drugs have increased. Drug trafficking has increased. The penalties imposed are not the ones that must be. And I can tell you that it is a law which does not honor us on certain points, as it introduces a system of interoperable between the public sector, the ILO more specifically and any accused drug dealer. I refer you to Article 26 of this law. If you read it carefully, you will see this specific system of interaction. It results from the wide range of penalty payments imposed, starting from 100,000 to 1,000,000. I do not think that more comments are needed when we have such a wide range of penalties without the existence of criteria. And finally, I come to Articles 96 and 97. And I would invite the Ministry to see this particular article, which simulates atmospheric, thermal smoking with traditional smoking. I do not belong to the tobacco world, nor have I ever belonged to it, and I have no special experience in the addiction caused by these forms of smoking. What I have to say, however, is that serious investments have been made in Greece of 300,000 000, 000 in recent years - and that is an answer if you want in the New Democracy for not having invested in the country - by individuals who have invested in alternative forms of smoking. Here too, we must be careful, because perhaps this provision causes problems in these new investments. Finally, I shall refer to my dear Mr Kefaliannis. I can tell you that often with what I hear in this House, I forget what I have been reading for years and what I am teaching. The fact that some legal person - Mr Barroso - is legal - refers to some future developments, using certain theories that exist and are mentioned in the expectations, is often confusing because they are not following anything that is related to both the economic theory or, if you like, the practice. Let us be very careful about what we hear from outsiders. The outsides have not done any better studies than my own graduate students, who have done much better studies. And ultimately what is heard outside doesn't mean it's unsettled. On the other hand, be a little more careful, because mistakes are made outside. We have an entire European Court of Auditors, which conquers the European Commission for the mistakes it made during the two memorandums. They have proved - from what you remember - that history of multipliers, the mistakes made by the International Monetary Fund. And one mistake follows the other. So we need to be a little careful about what we are proposing whether it is 100,000,000 losses are either 200,000,000 losses or 150,000 losses caused to the Greek economy by any governance. Because what is being heard, some time must be documented in a way that is compatible with the methods used by science and not with some meditations that are often developed between coffee and cigarette. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr. Marda. Mr Vagionas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u388	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the just come from Step Mr. Mardas, mild tone, must be aware that in 2009 from March to September, elections were held, then Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis informed all political leaders about the country's economic situation. And let us not pretend today because the Prime Minister had become chief and knew the current situation. Now, because the ministers are very tired, and in particular Mr. Blondeos, who is from 1800 minutes here, since you talked a lot about drugs, I wanted to say this. The other day, I had in my office some retired people who take some cardiotic medicines that still have the patent. Can you tell me if the insured person's actual participation is 85% or more? Because they say this medicine costs 63 euros - Brilique in particular - and the state pays 9.80 euros. What are we going to do about the two million seven hundred pensioners? Will everyone tell me they're taking medicine that's in the patent? Oh, no. I'm in favour of generic drugs. When you speak, if you have goodness, you give me a small answer positively or negative, as you think, and not as I do. I tried to find out within the eight pages that you have legal amendments, but I couldn't find any of what I'm trying to say. I'll just say four things. Firstly, Mr Yoyakas said that some of the parameters would be accepted and voted on. First of all, however, we are voting against it because it is a very large bill that we are discussing, it is a string - let me express - a sketchy one, many of them unrelated to each other under the cloak of modernization for the reform of health policies. No one denys that it is most of the bad texts in the field of health, first of all I, but it is certain that we will not correct them with the bill written in the leg, with a unique vision of the state you worship as a god. In this respect, you are theoretically attempting to gather the scattered legislation governing the operation of private clinics. In practice you will also drive some clinics to the paddock, with the changes you are promoting. Indicative is Article 8. You can answer me instead of waving your head, Mr. Polakis, in the affirmative. You define the meaning of the autonomous and self-evident building and you are doing well. There are, however, clinics down there that have underground parking to serve doctors, patients and their relatives in the visiting room. Are you going to remove them? Will you close the parking lot? Specific answers to specific questions. In addition, Article 2 defines all the shares of each clinic must be nominal and I agree with you. What, though, are you going to do with the funds coming, which are anonymous? Two yards and two stations? As for those who have the right to leave, the criterion for you is the final primary judgment on offences. And I don't dare say a felony because the felonies have a different dimension to any of the floods. In other words, I have been involved in a car accident and I have been sentenced for a year. Don't I have a right? Clear it up. In the legal provision of the eight pages that the Minister gave me, I tried to find something not to say. I don't do it from snooping. So time is set. If the sentence is 11 months, you don't go, you have the right. If it's 12 months, then the test is negative for you, if you want to have a private clinic. Why do you choose the primary decision rather than the final decision? You'll tell me, because finality can do twelve or fifteen years. Not to say what they say in my village "when it is the samari we do not beat the donkey". So, if justice is late, does a man who has a desire to do a major job have to pay for it? As for the CDC and its replacement, which is ETA, you're right. I can tell you a word. That's enough. No more state agencies. Maybe you don't agree. You want everything in the state, because the rulership has him as your god, as I said before. Because the state institutions too - and do not deny it to me because I can tell you many examples - are a nursery of bureaucracy and not just. I'll say two words about the transplants. You have the National Transplant Organisation. What highest scientific board is that you want? You must notify the ERCY or even the ERCY of any objection, but to interfere with the ERCY between ERM and the Ministry and the bureaucracy, you also increase the loss of time and money. I have been following the transplants for forty years, not to say since 1992 when George Sourlas and I was President of the Hellenic Nephrology Society. This is the only time Greece had a three-digit number of transplants, a hundred three in number. We have seven transplant centers. I don't know if you know it, I don't know if it all works today. But I believe that two transplant centres for Greece are too much, as long as they work properly. Because in other countries if a centre does not make twenty transplants - another has the number fifteen - it closes. Why do we have so many centers here? You'll tell me another thing about corneal transplantation, other than marrow, other than compact organs, that is the kidney, which is most of the transplants. The liver, for example, wants a fully organized hospital to become transplants. They cannot be made in more than two hospitals in Greece. Because I also ate one minute in addition, thank you very much for the effort you have made to listen to me. It's a long time ago. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr. Bagiona. The Minister has the floor to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u390	First of all, I don't want to place on the bill. I'll talk tomorrow. What I want is for me to present six ministerial amendments. One is Mrs Papanatsiou's statement and, because she couldn't, I present her. It is the amendment with a general number 204 and a special 159, which refers to the exemption from the special property tax for immovable property of the 'Alexandros Onassis' Foundation, which is used proven for public purposes in Greece. That is the amendment. The second amendment is the general number 2010 and specific number 162, which regulates issues relating to pharmacy and pharmacists. These are issues that we have agreed with the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association, and, in my opinion, they are dealing with outstanding issues at the present time. Firstly, we are dealing with the pendingness of pharmacies that existed in areas affected by theories, Mandra, Eye, if any, at this time in other regions of the country with increased rainfall - such as Crete - and which have been damaged and which have destroyed natural documents, that expenditure can be regulated and compensated by the EEA. We establish disciplinary boards of pharmaceutical associations with the participation of judges, judges in active employment. We reserve and institutionalise and legalise the possibility of pharmacists following a specific certification to carry out vaccinations in pharmacies, something which is done today specifically for influenza vaccines, and we want this to be strengthened and supported. We also regulate the supervision of the Ministry and the Secretary-General of Public Health in cases where mass vaccination programmes exist in the country, are carried out by humanitarian organisations, by non-governmental organisations, by health bodies, all under the supervision of the Ministry of Health and serve an overall framework for health prevention and treatment. Third amendment is the 2013 general and special 163 that was also the contested amendment, which has given rise to the interest of colleagues, former Ministers for the new tariff policy framework. In general, I said what it involves and I do not want to go too far. However, I would like to give two figures which I think are too enlightening and which answer very much the completely unfounded hints of colleagues. I said, therefore, that with this intervention, with this new tariff framework, there is a balance, let me say, of prices for medicines. Of the five thousand five hundred three active codes, namely by selling to the Greek market, two thousand sixty-one is growing, two thousand fourteen are falling and four hundred twenty-eight are still standing. What I said before is absolutely confirmed. So there will be no gifts or increases which will be burdened by the citizen. In fact, these codes are increasing - and we are talking about an increase when it is below the lowest price in the Eurozone - the nine hundred eighty-one, that is, 50% of these codes are generic and concern the domestic industry, which colleagues here are trying to protect its interests. It is a very balanced, very transparent, very sustainable intervention, and I think that the New Democracy is officially required to put it seriously about exactly what the pharmaceutical policy it is promoting is, to know what the world is waiting for him. With regard to the reductions in the burden and participation of patients, which are indeed very large in these years of crisis, we, ladies and gentlemen, have already made such reductions. We have reduced the cost of patients when they choose generic with the price of retail insurance for generics and with the reduction of what was in the 10% category, we have done it 0%. We have reduced by EUR 12 000 000 the burden of the citizens, by abolishing the three-drug limit per prescription, i.e. reducing the EUR 1 per prescription, by EUR 12 000 000. We have zeroed the cost of the secondary supplementary medicines of cancer patients and also, 1/3 of uninsured citizens, about seven hundred and fifty thousand of them with n.4368 take their medicines free of charge. So the sensitivity to the citizen who is being charged is another one. We have ensured it - and I can prove it with complete evidence - that after Law No4368 in practice the right to access and to health care and, in particular, to the necessary medical care for citizens has been safeguarded. One final comment to close with that. The focus of the price debate is on the Troika line. Mr Georgiadis is still in the process - he has lost incidents, what I said before - that he was the Memorandum Minister. The troika insisted on the line of continuous sub-costing horizontally and created multiple distortions. Our line is control over the substance in demand, evaluation with serious mechanism and scientific criteria, price negotiation, which is done for the first time in Greece, and therapeutic protocols and patient registers. You don't even think about it. This is structural change. It is moving with difficulty and with slow pitfall, but it is moving on nowadays. You did horizontal cuts and left the world uncovered to be explained. If you want, indeed, to intervene in substance, we have an answer and we have discussed it in the committee of Parliament: closed budgets by therapeutic category. This is the fairest distribution of claw back. Will you support this structural measure? Neither three closed outs said by the domestic industry nor anything, because I have now heard that they are reproducible and removable. This is structural intervention, and there is really the drugs, the companies, the charges charged with the overall closed budget that will have been established, the costs will be shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u391	Is there a pensioner who pays 85%?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u392	Listen, my dear colleague, cost participation is around 28% to 30% in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u393	Average.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u394	Of course, average. It is precisely because of the distorted pricing and compensation system, which you have implemented all these years and which we now have after leaving the Memorandum we are trying to change. There were these disproportionate charges when one chose to take off parent medicine and not generic and paid the retail insurance difference. Know that the high burden of the patient is not in institutionalised participation, at 10% and 25%, it is in the retail price difference and I will have the data tomorrow to present. Don't make us wake up now that they know it here. A transparent, fair, balanced and sustainable pharmaceutical policy is being conducted for the first time, and that is why no one is speaking. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We shall now proceed to the amendments. It is the general number 2014 and special 164, which regulates the setting-up of mobile primary care units. This is very important intervention. We recognise that this action which we are taking slowly in the urban centres of local health units, which have an extroversion, are intervening in the community, are taking action in schools, prevention, health care, etc., we need to find a way to decentralise in the most remote parts of the country, in island areas, in mountain areas, in the region where there are elderly people who find it difficult to reach public structures. So the idea is that. We are building up a mobile primary care team, which has a doctor, dentist, nurse, visiting health, midwife, social worker, manufacturer, laboratory technician, physicotherapist, driver. It's an eligible cost. It will be included in a European programme. And as reform is evolving in primary care, it comes to supplement it and decentralise it in areas that we have, in addition to the urban centres in which the new structures are developing. And it will help today's health centres and their regional hospitals, which are in fact having problems, especially in certain areas of the country, are highly subordinated. Therefore, in addition, they will visit villages at regular intervals, record people who are inhabited, who need home care, chronic patients and others. This is an excellent intervention, which will be promoted in the very near future. And there is a regulation here for the Central Board of Health, a very important institutional upgrading and reorganisation that we are doing. We remove various representations which were just to control the majority of the ERCF. We're reconstructing it. He's got twenty-nine members. Almost all professional and scientific organisations in the health sector are represented. We remove his responsibilities that he has had no reason to have, such as costing examinations or authorising precise special treatments, cyberknife and others. The Higher Health Council, which is a committee under the EEA, is responsible for dealing with these issues. We are therefore giving this competence there. There's nothing to do with this. The ERC shall be a State adviser and shall deliver an opinion on scientific questions. And it is also a body of social and scientific consultation. We also transfer responsibility from the EOF to the ERCY on the issues of ongoing medical education and certification and approval of medical sessions. There I am preparing an important intervention which we will have in the very near future and will be presenting to you. In a landscape which was also blurred, uncontrolled and unaccompanied and which has contributed to all this distortion in the field of health and medicine, I think they will make a serious household. Here, too, let me have a "fishmeal". I listened carefully to your special minister on health issues - not in the House, but in the party - Mr. Kontozamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u395	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u396	I think he said it. Disprove me if I'm wrong. I do not remember whether Mr Mitsotakis himself said he would abolish, says, the ERCY and replace it with a board of experts. This is the position of the New Democracy. An advisory body for scientific representation and consultation with the Minister of Health replaces it with the worthy and excellent Mr Mitsotakis with a board of experts that will be chosen by the Minister and recommended to him what he wants! This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a transparent and serious process of institutional functioning of these institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u397	He didn't say. Where did he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u398	Mr. Bagiona, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u399	He didn't say? I read it in the place of Mr. Kontozamanis when the New Democracy programme was presented a few days ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u400	Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u401	I'll check it out, and if I'm wrong, I'll take it back. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u402	Minister, let's finish slowly, please. We've reached 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u403	Let's go to another amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u404	You should say about the board at the Papageorgiou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u405	Yeah, yeah, good. Because we proclaimed hundreds of doctors' seats and there was a deficit, anyway, in the operation of selection councils, which we regulate. The next amendment is the general number 2015 and a special number 165, which regulates the decoupling of hospitals, as already mentioned, in seven areas of the country. We believe that this story of Law 4052/2012 and the accelerated interconnection - merger - contraction of agencies and others was an intervention of an entirely monumental nature. There has been no serious preparation and no serious, let us say, provision for how to deal with the problems. He created multiple side effects. And what we are doing now is that in some areas where this merger proves to be helpful, it has created even greater difficulties and problems, we are coming to restore it. These hospitals are: the Rhodes Hospital, which was interconnected with the Hospital of Kos and Kalymnos, which are disconnected, the Kosani Hospital, which was interconnected with the Hospital of Ptolemaida, the Hospital of Alexandroupolis, which was interconnected with the Hospital of Dimochos, the University and the General Hospital of Larissa, Koutlibneio, the University and the General Hospital of Heraklion, the “Venizelio”, and the Hospital of Limnos and Mytilini. All of this is disconnected, they acquire an autonomous legal status, separate legal entities governed by public law, separate VAT and others. We believe that this is the first intervention, because some colleagues have raised a matter, because we do not go any further in other regions and others. It was a first disconnector. Perhaps we will find an opportunity in a later period to evaluate other cases where problems have been identified. And already, having the experience of the first disconnections, we might see a second, say, wave of disconnections sometime later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u406	Mr. Minister! You've reached eighteen minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u407	But look now, it's very important. I cannot go along with the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u408	Aren't they going to present them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u409	But you know what's going on? There is a comprehensive analysis of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u410	That is another one, Mr President, and I shall end. There's a change in the subject of examinations for doctors' specialty. We are introducing something recommended by the ERC Plenary Assembly, by its training committee, by all the working parties of the forty-five of the country, to go to a single framework, as well as with regard to the content of education in the course of specialisation, the skills that the instructor needs to acquire in the logbook and the others, and a system of pan-Hellenic examinations also has to be carried out. In other words, the examinations should take place four times a year, but in two areas of the country, Athens and Thessaloniki, a combination of written and oral examinations, in our view, which ensures that colleagues who are truly well prepared will be able to pass the examinations successfully, in order to get the title of expertise and will not seek the favor of their directors, the teachers, who exercise a mechanism of power through the committees of inquiry. We know that now and I do not think anyone is seriously defending the present system. We also provide for residents who will be out of Athens and Thessaloniki and will be forced to move and stay to give examinations away from home, a allowance of 150 euros, which will be granted to them. We also have an intervention with the EOM amendment on the emotional donor, because the system is a little opaque. We put a four-member committee with judges and others, so that it can actually be proved and documented whether there is an emotional bond or is in the context of an economic transaction. I shall end with the last amendment with a general number of 219 and a special number of 169 relating to two things. One is the establishment of organic positions that do not exist and which we want to call at this time on primary health structures, health centres, centres of physical health and rehabilitation, CTEFs, where we want to take place in plantations at this time and at the former Korydalou Prison Hospital, which has been officially incorporated into the health system and we recommend twenty-nine organic posts of doctors and other health personnel to significantly upgrade the care of prisoners. It's forty-five places for primary school, forty-two for CFDs, and twenty-nine for that. The second element is that we are broadening the bodies of Law 4139, which are the players involved in dependency. There we add two ESS hospitals, the "Hatzikosta" Hospital of Ioannina and the Hospital of Corfu, which have already launched the operation of units - in Corfu for a long time, in Ioannina now, in the multi-powered centre - which are related to the treatment of dependency. Because this, under the current law, was not allowed beyond the four institutions, i.e. OKANA, KETHA, PSNA - '18 UNO', i.e. - and PSH. These are the amendments. Thank you very much for the tolerance of the Bureau and the tolerance of all of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u411	Minister, for the parliamentary amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u412	For the parliamentary anguish until tomorrow, Mr Barriotta. You'll hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u413	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S2-commons.u414	The meeting for Wednesday, March 6, 2019, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, continuation of discussion and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Modernisation and Reform of the Private Clinics Institutional Framework, Establishment of a National Public Health Agency, Recommendation of a National Institute of Neoplasms and other provisions".
