ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 14-2-2019, its minutes of 14 February 2019, on Thursday 14 February 2019, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: (a) "Definition of the Convention of extension of the “Airport Development Convention”, signed in Athens on 31 July 1995 and ratified by Mr. (b) ‘Repeal of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait on the promotion and mutual protection of investments and Roman Communications on the correction of Article 11(2) of the Greek original’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 18 February 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 349/11-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Health, regarding the radio medicine. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 338/7-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Annexic police - high crime in the municipalities of western Athens". 3. The 355/12-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance about the "providing the real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD)". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 350/11-2-2019 by Mr Georgios Vlachos and Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘The Support Account of the National Bank of Greece (LEPETE)’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 3. The 351/11-2-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the supreme building required by the lenders of 51 public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos". 4. The 344/11-2-2019 topical question by the Independent MP from Athens Mr. Efstathiou (Stathhi) Panagoulis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “By chemical and trabucism, they tried to dismantle the peaceful palliative for Macedonia in the Constitution.” 5. The 331/5-2-2019 topical question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Reported abolition of DU Acharon". 6. The 328/4-2-2019 top-level question by MP I Athens of New Democracy Mr.Kissos Kikilis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Decisions of the highest leadership in the Armed Forces (ED)". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 316/29-1-2019 by MP Laconia of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the conduct of patients from the EKA in intensive treatment units due to the lack of medical personnel". 8. The 332/5-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on "the chronic problems of the psychiatric clinic at the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PANGN)". 9. The Question No 329/4-2-2019 by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health on the subject: ‘Creation of a short-stay/oncological clinic at the General Hospital of Drama’. 10. The 322/4-2-2019 topical question by PASOK MEP - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health, on "Summaries of chemistry". 11. The Question No 307/28-1-2019 by MP Trikala of New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Skrekas to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘Healthy hotel businesses are at risk of being charged with “built” VAT. 12. The question by No. 299/28-1-2019 of the current question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR. Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increased insanity in Serres Law and the Serres Police Department has been subordinated." 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 281/21-1-2019 topical question by Independent MEP II Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The building cooperatives". 14. Observed. The Question No 262/9-1-2019 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Emergent need to increase the military service". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1867/25-9-2018 question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Protecting the traditional settlement - historical site Kampos Chios and its surroundings from excessive taxation and building." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 4065/5-12-2018 of the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on "on the support of the multivalent Doxato doctor in the Municipality of Doxatos in the Prefecture of Dramas from the State". 3. The question by number 2932/31-10-2018 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on "Democracy of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School" of Agios Varvaras from the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our fourth question under number 327/4-2-2019 on the second question of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Reviews of research projects in research centres without tender procedures and with unknown selection criteria". Mr. Style, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in recent years your Ministry has commissioned research projects to research centres without tender procedures and with unknown selection criteria, such as projects financed by the SIEMENS revenues. The funding of the research programmes of the academic bodies of the country, universities, research centres and institutes is an important element in their development. The whole process should offer equal opportunities to all potential beneficiaries, serving transparency and providing incentives to the generation of Brain Drain, in order to stay in our country and contribute to an economy of production, digital and innovative. In view of the above, you ask, Mr Minister: what projects has the Ministry of Education financed through a direct award procedure at universities, research centres and institutes in our country? What are the sources of funding used for these awards? SIEMENS' money, how and where have they been made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Style. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, our research policy is being implemented through three cycles of action. The first two focuses on supporting human resources and research carried out at Greek higher education institutions and research centres, such as through ELIDEK programmes and innovative entrepreneurship through projects managed by the General Secretariat of Research and Technology, such as the "Research - I Create - Innovation". In all these programmes, there is indeed a call for similar projects. But there is also a third course of action, and Mr Styly's question refers to what we call flagship initiatives. They are flagrant initiatives, taken at the initiative of the state, which constitute horizontal actions in selected thematic areas that have two main features: they are emerging and have a clear and visible social footprint. In other words, they have a direct, visible, social resonance. In these actions, the state plays a coordinating and subsidiary role, exploiting all the forces of human resources and infrastructure that exist in the country in the best way. What is happening is that these actions are effectively allocated networking costs, i.e. expenditure on setting up national networks always in the light of the best use of human resources and infrastructure. This creates national networks, such as the national network for medical accuracy with an emphasis on on oncology and research to promote clinical applications and diagnostic techniques, which actually lead to what we call individualised treatment of cancer. This network focuses on developing diagnostic adequacy and new gene treatments for more effective treatment in both prevention and prognosis and treatment levels. This is all done in close cooperation with the Ministry of Health, with the aim of all these results being accessible from the public health system to every citizen. The element here is that this network brings together all the forces of the country in universities and research centres, in the oncological clinics, which are active in this area. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I should like to close with that, Mr President, by taking some time from my denology. The funding of the network - because we are talking about networks and not research projects per se - is EUR 5.4 million and indeed comes from the Greek State's compromise agreement with Siemens. This network currently includes universities, clinical and research institutions from Crete, Athens and Thessaloniki, with an extension to Yannina and in the immediate future in Thessaly, Larissa and Alexandroupolis. A second national network in the field of medical accuracy will be supported by the Public Investment Programme and will focus on hereditary heart disease, particularly on the big issue called sudden death. Similar national networks have been created in the field of agri-foodstuffs and one now is being created in climate change. One key element of these networks is that the coexistence of these forces actually puts the country in a role of protagonist in the formulation of the priorities and choices made in the international area. I would like to close here, noting that these networks are open to any public research organisation that is active in these areas. The network participants themselves are the ones who define priorities, choices, the network research programme while the state plays a coordinating and supervisory role. And to close, because this is a very topical issue, on Monday there is an open event around the oncology network. It is done at the Pasteur Institute and I think, Mr Stylion, like any other interested party, that you have already received an invitation where the network's activities will be presented for the first six months and the next ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Georgios Stylos has the floor for three minutes, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am not covered by the answer from the Minister. It does not cover me for the following reasons: first, I asked and pointed out the subject of transparency. As far as I understand it, the Minister has informed us in general that a sum of EUR 5.4 million, which is SIEMENS money, is available, but he did not tell us which evaluation criteria these awards are made. In particular, please indicate which criteria are chosen to be awarded to this institute and not to any other research institute. I say this for this reason: you know, Minister, very well - you are an academic - and I know as much as I can with my knowledge and my contribution to research, that in our country we have a multitude of scientists, research centres and institutes. We have graduates with postgraduate studies, doctoral studies, we have very skilled, who have been distinguished and distinguished each year. These researchers are thousands and they are hundreds of workshops and research centres in the universities in the country that produce and do valuable work. So when we have all these new scientists who can offer the country, it has the margin and the possibility of the Ministry being vaguely assigned and not serving transparency and equal development and distribution of the funds and money that the country has, and indeed for money such as Siemens's money, which I think you have proceeded with the award because they are excluded from the public accountancy. And that's why this procedure was done? I'd accept you telling me there was a prize or something. So I ask, Minister, how did the agencies, institutes and scientists have been chosen by body? With what academic criteria and with what process? How does it ensure that the necessary academic criteria are met in the selection of participants? What are the diagrams to avoid choices of micropolitical or personal preferences? We do not have the margin, Minister, not to function with clear rules, especially in such matters as the young people of our country. To close - and not to abuse the time - I would also like you to explain to me what the advantages of this approach are, namely, the entrustment of funding to the open call for funding, as has taken place for many years and decades so far, taking into account reduced national funding as a whole and the fact that the public invitation increases transparency, equal opportunities in demanding funding and the opportunity for equal growth. Unfortunately, Minister, in recent years too, the economic crisis of permanent researchers has not taken place in the research institutes. Just recently the Ministry of Education issued a press release that you will proceed to a hundred and fifty permanent appointments of researchers, but they start the academic year 2019-2020. I'm telling you before, so you don't tell me later. The academic year 2019-2020 starts in September. Then it will be the elections or they will not be or will be held sooner. So you let this work be carried out by someone else. Secondly, while in the country we have a large number of papers - research work - in patents we are too low. And don't tell me, Minister, that patents have doubled, because patents registered in the country from eighteen to sixteen have become thirty-six, when the papers exceed thousands each year, we have three to four thousand papers. Thank you, Minister, and I am waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Style. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u9	There's probably a confusion or ignorance in things. First of all, I will start with something that should not have been said, according to the experience of your own governance, before governance. In the last two years a thousand ICPs have been set up in universities and a hundred researchers' posts already completed in research centres. Recently and after ten years of complete drought, Mr Stylian, there were hundreds of fifty posts, as you said, of specialist scientific staff - not researchers - for research centres. So you probably should've wondered what happened there. Now, with regard to the thousands of young scientists, who I too agree that there is a great problem, as I have told you, there are two other courses of action to support human resources and innovative entrepreneurship, where invitations are actually made - as we say - Bottom-up, open invitations and proposals are made. The action taken by the flagship initiatives I am telling you - and you should be aware of what is happening in the European Union too - is equivalent to what is planned in the European Union for the new framework programme, 'Horizon Europe', called 'Missions'. There, with this action on top, the state itself comes and chooses - this is the only intervention it is making - the areas, the areas that have the elements that I have told you, they have an emerging, an incomprehensible character first and, secondly, they have an important social resonance that can be seen immediately. These are the two elements, and indeed the reason why we want this second is that, because huge investments have been made in research in recent years, resources have more than doubled than has been the case in the past, it is the state's duty to develop such actions that show visible results in a short time. These actions, therefore, are not research projects, such as those that occur in the two previous cycles. As I told you, they are national networks, they are networking all the human resources that are scientifically active. And as you know as an academic, there are clear criteria for what scientifically active means in the respective fields. In other words, they are not open in general, they are focused actions. These networks are also open. Everyone you know has left, for example, outside the network of medical accuracy and cares can be addressed to the network itself. The state doesn't make the choices. The state starts from some renowned people, known in international space, and the network starts like this. This is done, Mr Styliani, this is a new tool, which in fact provides information that is very important, such as the element of inspiration. It inspires young scientists to move in areas such as oncology and medicine of the future, such as precision medicine. For the rest, I would like to give you a more detailed information on the general policy. We will have this opportunity to take place in the Committee on Research and Technology, but clearly in this case, there is the community itself, the research teams active in this area themselves decide and determine what is going on. We need to understand that there is this tool too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Minister, and let him go. Before we move on to the debate on the next timely question, I should like to read out a few more timely questions that will not be debated as a result of impediments. The first question under number 4556/21-12-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister of State and Government, on the subject: "It continues to persist with the Ministry of Shipping in the unacceptable exception of Crete from Transport Equivalence", will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. As responsible, the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. The first, with number 347/11-2-2019, top-stage question for the first cycle of the Piraeus MP, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Serious risk of collapse is facing the Refugee and Koraleneion Foundation", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The seventh question, under number 306/28-1-2019, of the second question of the Parliamentary Kastoria of New Democracy Mr Maria Antonios to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Examination of student transfer objections", will not be discussed due to a blockade by parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u12	Mr Kegeroglu, I know the subject and I give you two minutes to develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, the question of excluding Crete from the transport equivalent and with the relevant law is indeed the responsibility of the Ministry of Shipping. The Minister for Maritime Affairs in my questions is constantly saying a coma and, of course, the State Secretary of State has allegedly answered. He's not coming to the House. So I appealed with a question to the Prime Minister. I am therefore addressing the Prime Minister with my 4556 question to check on the Minister for Maritime Affairs for the reasons he has excluded Crete from the programme of the transport equivalent. The Prime Minister did not reply within the deadline and according to a document I have from the Parliamentary Control, from the relevant Directorate of Parliament, to answer for the Prime Minister's sake is the Minister of State and Government. I shall therefore put the question to the Prime Minister and the document of the Parliamentary Control Directorate, which says that he is responsible for the Secretary of State and Government, as well as for the responsibilities of Mr Janakopoulos's FEK. So I don't care who's in charge. Getting in charge. The government won't be hiding. The ministers won't be hiding. Crete must enter the transport equivalent, and these ones show that there are people responsible and responsible, but they are hiding. To come here to explain the reasons. I shall submit it to the Minutes, Mr President. Thank you for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Comrade, it's been recorded. I would just like to say that a question has already been answered by Mr Santorini. From there, it is quite clear that it is your right to present it again, as long as it is considered to be a topical matter and to answer the Minister responsible. We continue with the eighth question under number 285/21-1-2019 of the Second Cycle of the New Democracy MP Evros, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Transfer of membership from the Medical School of the Democrat University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica". But also with the second question under number 2854/29-10-10-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning "the transfer of a member's position from the Medical School of the Democrat University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica". The two questions deal with the same subject and will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of the speakers in their speaking time, by applying the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. The issue of the current questions of both colleagues is the transfer of a member's post from the School of Medicine at the Democritus University of Thrace at the University of West Attica and we start with Mr. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. For three days the Plenary Assembly of the Greek Parliament discussed the forthcoming review of our Constitution. Unfortunately, however, we were surprised not to pass, Minister, on the same votes as the amendment and revision of Article 16. You are the relevant Minister and, unfortunately, you have not been able to convince your Government and your colleagues in the parliamentary group. For another ten years Greece, unfortunately, will not benefit from this great privilege to have a private non-profit university. And you, as I have read in your CV, are proud that you have taught American private universities: Cambridge, Harvard, MIT, Boston and others. I'm filing it in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) and Mr Anastassios (Tsos) presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, and now on our subject. First of all, it is a happy day for me today, because, after November 5, 2018, I tabled the timely question on the issue, after three and a half months, the Minister of Education is consistent and comes to answer the Evros MEP for his decision to "document" from the Medical University of Thrace a position of DPA in 2018, by a university hospital in need of this LPA position in terms of Pathological Anatomy, because the recommendation of the post was ensured, the credit from the General Accounting Office of the State was secured to be paid by this university professor, who provoked it, for there was no interest and, when he reopened the post, instead of the Minister expecting the outcome of the second process - why not the third one? -, immediately with the law he voted for took this position of the professor of Medicine Thrace and transferred it to the University of Western Attica. Mr. Minister, my village and Evros and Thrace and the whole region gave everything to become the great Athens. At some point Athens should return to the province. The province can't work for the University of West Attica. Why did you do that? Why are you showing us against a coron and disturbing us and complaining about policies that are hostile to Thrace? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u16	I thank my colleague. Here, Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, welcome. I've been waiting for you four months. I will have the happiness of having, I believe, a creative conversation and a result on your part. My question became necessary to you on October 29, following a resolution from the Department of Medicine of the Democritus University of Thrace, which states, among other things, that "The finding that the School of Medicine of Democritus University is being led to a complete deterioration is not a form of speech, since it has already been conducted university clinics with a single member of the LAG, in violation of any academic ethics. Under no circumstances would it be an exaggeration that his function continues for the sake of esteem and many sacrifices on the part of colleagues there," the teachers say. This, unfortunately, is the harsh reality. The deterioration and deforestation of the Democritus continues because you and the Prime Minister are committed to the creation of a legal School, fourth in the country, as if there is no multitude of the legal world as members who understand the need for this service in justice. At the same time, of course, you have also, at the same time, recently come to a statement by a Pharaonic bill on the absorptions, as you have done in other regions, and I am referring to the merger of the technological institutions in our region, the region, at the International University of Thessaloniki. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Unfortunately, this deforestation, the deterioration of the region, has to do with its constant deterioration at every level. We had a hundred and forty - six member ICPs in Democritus, and there are sixteen left this year. So how will a university function under these circumstances and the constant deforestation effort, with what I said before? We're waiting for an answer from you. I believe that we will also have the luck of the merger, the absorption of this highly technological establishment in our region, in eastern Macedonia and Thrace, by Kavala, which is the seat in Thessaloniki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor. You have six minutes at your disposal. If you answer both at the same time, your time is doubled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have Facebook and I don't have Twitter, but I understand that you're posting your speeches so that our citizens can see them...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u20	But you have Facebook.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u21	No, wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Cryazides, don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u23	The Facebook I've got is a fake Facebook that's become and has been denounced. Don't get into this. Don't tell me what I've got, so!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u24	But now is that our pain?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u25	I'm sorry, Minister. Mr. Kyriazidis, you have a dentist, so you can gather all the questions and then answer the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u26	What I would like to ask you, though, is this: will you have the kindness and democratic sensitivity, what I will tell you to post them on Facebook and to see them as a response to your question and not just the question? That's the first. Secondly, Mr Prussakis, I am very afraid that you too have been involved in this very incredible ideological dimension around Article 16. Don't talk about non-profit institutions. Private universities are speculative institutions, they simply don't share the profits. That's the big difference. But someone has to make profits so they can work. Well, don't hide behind our finger. And secondly, I would really like you to carry out a review - it is very easy to do this - and tell me how many private universities exist in Europe and what the minimum standards are. I'm catching up with you, it's too bad the quality of private universities. Private universities are not today a tradition of Europe, they are basically American. Greek universities - as I hope you know - have institutions that can be managed and money coming from public institutions etc. But do not open this up, because it is another matter today. Mr. Kyriazidis, it was a little confused about the issue you raised with the technological foundations that you called, obviously, you meant the Eastern Macedonia and Western Thrace TEI, which is what is in Kavala, rather. I would ask you to go and see the decision of the committee. There is simply no consensus on the future of this institution, here there is a consensus on the bright future now, within the framework of the International University. Now, you have raised an issue which, if you do not know details, you will see that the Ministry has indeed done an arbitrary thing. What did the ministry do? He took one place where the election was barren, and took it to another university. Firstly, it is our government which, after ten years, gave the universities a thousand positions and, in order to create a position and to find the money for it, is an extremely time-consuming process. So when you publish a position, you have to see if what you need, the specialties you need, there are in the scientific community. Because I may need a specialty that may not exist in the scientific community. And if there's a scientific community, start investigating whether these people are willing to come to Greece or run. Because, otherwise, you will allow me to say, you are opening a post without making the corresponding advance. I think you know that too. If you want a partner who might want him in something highly skilled and this specialty for your future is very important - I mean your office - and it may not exist. Or, if any, he's not willing to come. So when there are ferocious elections, because there was no candidate, it means that the body which took an empty position, to which it gave its content, has not done the necessary pre-treatment. So let's not start the accusation that no one takes positions from a regional university, etc. Here's something we all need to see in the eyes. Secondly, the barren process, as you know, may not only be done because there are no candidates. There may be a lot of candidates - and we have such cases - and the elite doesn't agree to someone. I mean, when you have twelve candidates and no one does to you and she's barren, there's an issue with the elite body. What? That the superstitious body should get grown up, talk to each other seriously and see what they will do from the various candidates. So in both cases we have selective bodies that seem to have a problem with the licenses that are to be managed. The law gives us the right - and right in our opinion - to see where else there are needs. Let me tell you one more thing. It's not just what happened with the Democrat University Medical School. From the NPA, from the Ionian, the University of Macedonia, the University of Thessaloniki, there were corresponding barren positions. And we didn't all take them to West Attica University. We shared them as required. I think it's very fair. I think it shows the Ministry's determination not to leave these positions coming and returning, because the needs are enormous. And we should also have a responsibility for the other institutions, which have gone ahead with their procedures. That is what I would like to say at this stage. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Prussakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Law 4521/2018, as far as his article is concerned, is your creation. Never did your predecessors think to vote and ensure such a "declaration" law. That's what Evros and Thrace call him. Because you did not have the patience to wait for the second process, as far as the teacher concerned was concerned about pathological anatomy, which was necessary to cover it from a university. Unfortunately, you transferred it to West Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u29	No candidate was presented!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u30	Secondly, you are the one who voted for a law and ended up with regional universities in terms of OSH, in terms of teachers. Because of your law, forty-two members left the University of Thrace from Democritus. In fact, on 31-12-2018, seven others were taken off. These are tricks and creations of your own, and unfortunately they are also affected by regional universities and they do not work, but above all, the University of Thrace is malfunctioning. I think these policies are very wrong and you should change the law, because it is an illegal act. You should look as an eye daughter at the periphery and neural Thrace, because she needs it. I told you to another, previous question here in plenary that, when I heard that the Minister of Education would be Costas Gavroglou, the professor, from the capital of Thrace, from the historic Constantinople, I thought he would put his positive touch on education and, of course, the interests of Thrace as well as in a spirit of law. But you besieged us. Why are you doing this? We have complaints. They're not just mine. I have no perversion towards you. I respect you in particular, I fully appreciate both as a professor and as a minister. Why are you doing this at the expense of Thrace? It hurts, doesn't it? Why are you doing this? I want you to address the Thracians and the Hebrews and say why you are doing all these actions. We also want you to respond - and my colleague told you - in this respect, you have received the TEIs of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, and neither have you been excluded from the Twin wall Nursing School, and you go to the International University of Thessaloniki. But couldn't you extend the territorial jurisdiction of the University of Thrace to that of the administrative district, so that there could be a match? Because that is how one has to be conceived. You guys did it to strangers. In other words, what I told you next time, as the angerist Greek people say, "Other goes, eats and drinks elsewhere goes and gives it". But is that possible? Are these political? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u32	Minister, what we said earlier about the School of Medicine is not our casualties. Teachers with a unanimous resolution expressed their concern about how many members there were, how many they are today, how many they leave this year and what you are doing. If you now say that they are dissatisfied, that something else hides their assembly and content, you can tell us. You come and take positions in the way you said, namely that you do not intervene and that others, if you wish, - in introductory terms - "specify" members and have something to do with the university community. Say and see. In any case, it is an issue which, unfortunately, is the cruel reality. And we come to the biggest issue that tortures us as a region in the sense of absorbing the departments of the Schools of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace at an International University, with programs in English, of course, with tuition. We do not understand how this absorption can be done - a merger. You mentioned the fact that there are decisions. What committee? The committee that we set up, excluding the Democrat University from being present in the committee. You made a commission from other universities to come up with it. You committed yourself here, Minister - I will give you the Minutes - that this would be a first decision, a position of the committee and a second one to complete all this work. So, what did you do? You have just forced the President, if you wish, of the International University and of the Committee, Mr. Written, to resign. This is how you proceed, in an arbitrary way, by creating thirty-two sections in six cities, without - if you want - any sustainability study, any work-saving study then of graduates' rights. In other words, we're building an unemployment-graduate industry. We also saw it with the other uptakes, mergers that you make in Epirus, Central Greece and Thessaly. Other schools in other universities in Athens, different mergers - uptakes in Epirus with regard to technological institutions, different in Thessaly and Central Greece. And you confess to it on one point, because in Article 34 of the relevant bill, in terms of absorptions - mergers in Thessaly and Central Greece, an academic training board is being set up to study how these mergers can then be carried out. That's what he's studying. It shall study the conditions for the establishment of HEIs and Research Centres in the Region of Central Greece, prepare a relevant sustainability report by 31 December 2020. Shouldn't that be the case, in the case of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, with regard to the absorption of TEIs or TEIs, of this Higher Technology Foundation in Thessaloniki?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u33	What are you talking about? All right, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u34	We don't understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u35	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u36	Of course! But how do we understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u37	Because you don't read.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u38	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u39	We'll see and then. The same happened in Crete that you were going to do the effort, but you saw there that this higher technological institution does not agree and self-determination. She does not agree to be introduced or - if you like - merged into either of the two universities. We would like that - if you deceive the Republic - in the same region, rather than what happened to other regions - in any case accept it - not to create an autonomous top-level technological institution based in Kavala. This could be discussed, but not in the way and with the purpose and purpose of doing so, because in a short time all of them will have a degree of oilball.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Minister, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u41	We were supposed to come here to discuss the issue of the position that came out of barren. I understood that you were probably satisfied with my answer and you are asking me other questions now. I don't have a problem. I'm ready for the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u42	Because I didn't get an answer. Principles of the year I tabled for technological institutions. I didn't get an answer. You're deceiving it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Cryazides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u44	Listen. Look at the videos again, to convince you that a university can't today have the luxury of making bourgeois elections. We need to have elections, because it has been doing a year and a half since we have given a post until someone has been appointed and can't do this type of thing - I'm not saying any irregularities or toys. But it is an issue of the community, and especially in our country, which is so difficult to find money, we think they should go elsewhere they need. I really do not want to refer to the neoliberalism of Mr Prussakis, which is 'ordinary stealing'. I do not think the Greek language needs the terms of this type. But you know, Mr. Prussakis, what used to happen when the elections were brutal? You know?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u45	Repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u46	Oh, no. You're making a huge mistake. They removed the money. They were therefore abolished. And this is your law. You see, you don't know your own laws. What did your law say? He said that if a position is barren, it's abolished, it's over. We take the money back and go to the state budget. What did we say? Do not abolish these positions, but there is the possibility of going elsewhere, which they need. Now let me come to the rest of you tell me. You know, it's really inconsistent and I think it's very disgraceful for our young people, saying that universities are the unemployed industry. You don't have the right to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u47	That's what you're doing! 20% of OECD has graduated unemployed, Minister. What are you telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Colleague, you're not listening. The Minister's talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u49	Look, the interruption...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u50	I'm sorry, Minister. Mr. Cryazides, what you're doing, yelling underneath, that's not right. The Minister's talking. To answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u51	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u52	But it's not dialogue right now what's going on here. There is a process of protology, denology and responses from the Minister. Please. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u53	Look, it seems that your indignation is an expression of a lack of arguments, because on the one hand you say it is a industry for the creation of the unemployed and you want private universities yourself. This is the madness of the case, that is, you who want private universities you say that the public creates unemployed, that is, you actually want to get kids from the public to go to private, because unemployment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u54	Respectfully, Minister, not the way you do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would ask that there be a measure in the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Cryazides, this is the third time I've noticed you. Please. Let the Minister answer. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u57	First, respect for public universities. I would like you to call it the unemployed industry. As to the new architecture, you know, it's not a ministry committee, it's nothing like that. It is a committee to which all four institutions have participated, and they have also made decisions of the senators. More will be known by the unanimous decisions of the conventions than you know. More than that. They cannot be unanimous and one cannot have voted against. Can I tell you something? At our International University, all programs are not in English. They're specific programs in English. I say this because you still don't read what we posted. However, what you do not know at all - and it makes me a terrible impression for you and Mr Prussakis - is that we are in agreement with the Democritus University of Thrace for the next day for the new architecture of the Democrat University. We're in very good cooperation with the Republican authorities. We have been given a project - in my opinion, a very sensible and development plan - which we are discussing and which we will announce at the end of the discussions with the Democrat University. So the Democrat University not only is not left out of this, but there will be specific proposals that we are working on together with the democracies. So I don't understand this whole case. Let me tell you something to be clear about TEI Crete: The dean and the dean personally of TEI Crete sent a letter to the University of Crete and the University of Crete to start a conversation on a zero basis. Watch out for that. The two prefectures of both the Polytechnic and the University of Crete said "this is not our concern". When we formed a committee and not only from members from Crete but also from the University and from the University of Crete and from TEI and other universities from other cities, this committee called on them to say: "Do you want to discuss the logic of synergies and cooperation with TEI Crete?". For the second time, the President-in-Office said 'no'. So the committee proceeded with the proposal that it is making us. [[At this point, the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speaking time is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The other day, a hundred and fifty new posts were announced for universities, forty - five at the National and Kapodistrian University, twenty - five at the Agricultural, fifty in Thessaly, twenty in Yannina and ten at the Ionian. At the same time, twenty-eight places were announced in cooperation with the Ministry of Health exclusively for the medical schools and the School of Medicine in Alexandroupolis - the Democritus University - takes three brand new posts. There is a glorious scope, therefore, for them to be able to proceed quickly, for good candidates to come and for the perfect ones to be elected to these positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, and my fellow Members. We'll continue with some deletions before going to the next time question. The second question under number 353/12-2-2019 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Interior, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the damage caused by the new highway of Chania - Kissamos, North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK) due to the floods, as well as within the settlement of Lower Stalos on Malindretou Street", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Home Affairs, Alexandros Haritsis, due to a government mission internally. The tenth under number 269/14-1-2019 topical question by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Alexandros Haritsis, because of a government mission internally. The 11th enquiry under No 265/11-1-2019 topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "At what stage is the implementation of the visitor's mission to Lake Lada, amounting to EUR 1,289,618", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Mr.Alexandros Haritsis, because of a government mission internally? The twelfth under number 270,14-1-2019, a topical question from the Member of the Lesvos Parliamentary Republic Mr Charalambos Athanasios to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Diffusion of the municipality of Lesbos", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Alexander Haritsis, because of a government mission internally. Finally, the sixth question under number 309/28-1-2019 of the Independent MEP 2 of Thessaloniki, Aristides Fokas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Social structures of municipalities", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of the Interior, Alexandros Haritsis, because of a government mission internally. We continue with the first 348/11-1-2019 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy, Anastasios DRC to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, on the subject: "Second Opportunity School in Samothraki". Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you will remain in history as "the Minister of Education, the deputizer". So they tell you to Evros and Thrace, because you manage to bring everything around and pass these policies that you have decided, in the mild way that it distinguishes you in the conversation and in the persuasiveness you have. And rightly within the SYRIZA, you are not called by Mr. Gavroglou, but by Mr. Gavroglou. ‘Fanariot’. Unfortunately, once again, we are witnessing your indifference to the inhabitants of the remote island of Samothrace. Five to six months ago, we were talking here about the fourteen children who were privileged to extra-import to universities because of the extreme weather phenomenon that caused great problems on the island. Unfortunately, the second time, despite the fact that the municipality, all your services and existing services have proposed it - you have promised that you will consider it positively - you have taken away your evil against fourteen children and at the expense of fourteen equal families. However, today we are discussing the second opportunity school on the island of Victory. On 18 May 2018, Mr. President, the municipal council of the municipality discussed this request for twenty two inhabitants. The municipality submitted on 1 June to your Ministry his proposal and on 6 September the speaker filed a parliamentary report with the resolution attached to it by the local municipality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, you have turned your back on the fighters of life, such as the inhabitants of an outlying island, an island - as I said - whose wounds were caused since 25 September 2017, because of the extreme weather phenomenon, have not healed. You deprive them of the right to equal access to the labour market, to the search for a better quality of life in the context of the equilibrium and iso-state that they claim to the lighthouse of the island complex of the Aegean, which is Samothraki. Why have you not responded to the legitimate request of the inhabitants? Why are you so indifferent to me? Why are you demonstrating against these people, who are on the acronym and neural island, your vengeance? Do we want you to tell us whether you have planned, even late - after we have lost one training period - the establishment of this second opportunity school in order to do so from the new educational period? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Treasury, because in every question you ask me, you also make a reference to my origin, where I was born and where I grew up...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u62	We're proud.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u63	Like all of us, we're proud of...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u64	I'm advertising you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, but I want you to understand that a government policy is devised regardless of where someone is born and has grown up. I think that this is also the case for your party, as is the case for my party, so I think this is a detail which does not concern the citizens of this country, obviously the policy we are discussing. Secondly, there is neither a matter of evil nor anything else. Let me tell you from the outset that we have been seeing positively the establishment of such a school. We, where there are infrastructures, but above all the interested parties, want to increase the second opportunity schools. In about ten days, we'll announce our entire programme for the second chance schools. It is an extremely important institution. You know that in Samothraki it was running from 2008 to 2011 a second opportunity school - you know, I hope, that - which closed because there were no stakeholders. Now we understand that there are some interested parties. The municipality did send what you said. But the establishment of a second-time school wants a process, as you can see. We also call on the municipality to follow the right procedure, and not only to notify us of the municipal council decision. And you also contribute to the completion of this process and once there are interested parties, we are open to go ahead with it. In fact, we are progressing regardless of all of this. We have already made contact with the municipality and we are already trying to find all the evidence that would justify the operation of a school that was working, closed in 2011 and hopefully open because it is an extremely important institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and four teachers from the 4th General School of Chalkida. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I should like to inform you that the reason why you see this House has a few colleagues is because there is now a timely question procedure. The Member concerned asks the Minister, who is responsible for the current question being discussed, and the Minister is asked to respond on topical issues. In particular, the question that is being debated at the moment concerns the second opportunity schools. It is also very important for you students who are here, to know the issues that concern you, as the Minister of Education is invited to answer. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, there is an answer to your question as to the web page. As far as I am concerned - and I appreciate my colleague - everything that has to do with parliamentary activity, and of course it also has to do with comments, much more about what the Minister says, and about the link. From there on, they are accessible to all voters and to all citizens. Also, Minister, I will recommend that you have one too. It is worth it, because society is structured, harmonised and equipped. As a improvised communicationist, I make this recommendation and thank you very much. However, and we are coming back to our point, Mr President, I am tabling the decision of the Samothraki Municipal Council, as well as the annexation to it of the twenty-eight guards of the country there on the acronym and neuro-algal island of Greece, which is worth making as quickly as possible action to re-establish, as you said, the second opportunity school, because the generations are changing. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) and Mr Anastassios, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From 2011 until now we have almost eight years full. Young people have come here, they have seen that they cannot compete in the environment, not only local people, and that is why twenty-eight familymen and housewives on this island have decided to exploit this state tool, for which I am truly collecting - for the second opportunity schools - from other regions of Evros and Thrace - that they operate in the mountains, and indeed very successfully. And I want to tell you that by visiting Xanthi Mountain, the first thing I had in Sminthi was that, that is, the second chance school to work, as it had started. I believe, Minister, that together we can conceive and help Evros and Thrace. And if I talked about it, it's because I have a common origin too. My family comes from a village of Makra Gephyra and today's village is from the old four kilometers and between is the river Evros. I am proud of both my current village and my origin, and this is a title of honor and we call it loudly within the Greek Parliament. We live on the fringes of these people from where they started and came and built a new homeland. And that's not declining. On the contrary, I pity the Minister of Education who comes from the Kingdom, and we are proud of our capital and our unforgettable homelands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u69	It is a pity, Mr President, that the parliamentary procedure does not allow the debate to take place with the children and to discuss the problems they have. I'm sure both the kids and the teachers would like to. If you stay a little longer, I'd like to talk to you when I finish my duties here a lot of joy. Mr. Practicalis, to agree that second chance schools are a very important institution, to agree that there are stakeholders, because you know too many times while someone wants to, thinks that it is being stigmatized by going to a second opportunity school, because a man for thousands of reasons might not have been able to get a high school graduation or other grades. We really welcome the citizens who are applying for this. As we said to the mayor, we will proceed. Some bureaucratic procedures need to be completed. I hope, however, that since September the school will function, and the twenty-eight to become more. And if there's any of our citizens who want to go and not think it's degrading, we'll do everything we can to strengthen them, watch this school too. So you see we started with a huge disagreement about the "Democritus", but at least we managed to agree on the Samothrace issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u70	Complaints remain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u71	We thank the Minister for his reply and for his brief reply. We continue with Question No 294/22-1-2019 of the Second-Category of the Parliament's Vice-President and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Cremastinos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "An unequal exclusion of professors from the claim of seating of laboratory directors and clinics". Here, Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, Mr Minister, you are aware of my views on this matter. However, since I did not speak when the amendment did not go ahead, colleagues felt that in a way, there was an agreement to accept these positions. That is why I ask this question, because most people are watching at the moment, that is to say, to repeat what I have told you in private. What I've said in private is what I said. I believe that a teacher who wants to run a clinic - laboratory - of medicine, for example, and who has less than three years in front of him does not have the time to create an infrastructure that leads him to something better than what exists. So this provision, as you have said, is absolutely right. On the other hand, if a teacher who has been well-qualified and recognized for two, three years but also one, because he has not three years in front of him and has two or one, it is unfair that he should be deprived of the right to give him the approval of the sector to complete his work, while remaining in his office. Because, otherwise, he has to leave his office, get another younger person into his office and wait for him to retire. But in practice what? In this case, in practice, the teachers leave and go to private clinics called private hospitals and leave the university a year or two years ago. That is what I think is wrong and we have discussed it together many times. However, in view of the fact that colleagues have said that I did not support it, as I support it at the moment, and that is why I am coming back to this issue, and that is why they are asking you to listen, what is the reasoning, of not allowing those who have been able to serve two and three years and have another year or two years, to ask the sector to extend their address to the clinic or laboratory for the rest of the time. That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I can assure the House that Mr Cremastino has indeed told me and he has told me before. It's not something that Mr. Cremastino just carries. He thinks so too. And I want that to be clear. So you have been impeccable in terms of your obligations to colleagues. I shall try to analyse a little the thinking of politics, which has nothing to do with any personal issues not of course with you but with those teachers. What Mr Kremastinos and some of his colleagues are asking is this: why if I have two years to retire, can I not be able to run and take the place of a director whose term is three years? Why are you forbidden from that? First of all, the law does not agree to be able to run in other places such as for example before the university or chamber presidents, etc. The post of a clinical director is not an exclusive administrative post. These are the peculiar positions of the university, which also have an academic significance, often more important than the administration. As to positions, however, we in the single-faced institutions follow the same thing at all the rest of the university. The second is this. To be honest with you, if I was a professor of medicine and had a dilemma like that, I'd be happy to go to a new person, and I've got this experience to be able to help. Why would I have to retire on the last day, run out of this position? It's not degrading for older people to take positions in the university, especially administrative, younger. And that is the only way that an experience can be conveyed. I don't understand why this well-intentioned guidance is considered degrading. But now you have raised something else with which I know that you personally disagree. Obviously, you have put it because it is being discussed. Look, it's not an argument that if he stays in two years, he's going to a private clinic. It performs a social function. You personally have until the last day been at the public university, with any objections, difficulties, etc., but there you have fought. I believe that this cannot be an argument that one has to take seriously. The rest of me think it is a daily life, which this osmosis of experience in the last two years in - I would say - an active career by a teacher - because you know that on our own government, one has the ability to do courses in the postgraduate, has the ability to do with a decision of the general meeting of courses at the undergraduate in the two years that we have shaped - shows us that it is not that the university and the state are taking a teacher to its sixty-seven, and throws him away and goes to the unclaimed. Slowly have a good mood and can offer infinite things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kremastinos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Gabroglou knows what I'm saying here, and I'm saying it out of Ethiopia. To be honest, what the Minister said is the ideas, but in Greek society that is not the case. When, for example, the teacher of the university and especially of medicine - because we have a peculiarity for us doctors - who are a surgeon for example - to leave my specialty - makes the program for his surgery, and next week the younger of him is in the office and makes his own schedule and he tells him you'll go to surgery, that's what the professor of surgery thinks it's degrading, as much as it may seem strange to you. And what's he doing? He's getting up and leaving and going to a private clinic. He says, why should I now sit down for one and two more years, and have the younger guy make my own program, which I until yesterday was making the program and suggesting to him how? That is why I said that what you are saying is ideally right in an angel society or if you want north Europeans - which are not angels at all, but is another society - but it is not understandable for us southern ones. And that's not degrading, it's a peculiarity of our race. I'm not saying that the northern people are better than the southern ones, I'm not saying that. But there is particularity and we are living in universities. That's the one. The other thing which I personally do not believe, but which I convey, because my colleagues say so, is this. They say: "Oh, these laws become "photographic" so that I can go and you can come." That's what they call it outside. So, in my opinion - and if I were in your position - I would take this into account. Because everything in this life and in this place, the hard part, is to convince that you are not an elephant. That's the hard part. That is why, if you wish, and personally I have supported this position, but that is why I am here today, to make it public, and to see that what I say to you and I tell them, and not words, which I say in this House, to do good on one side or the other. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much Mr. Kremastino. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u78	Fortunately, I have caught up with you and said that what you are saying is not for reasons of public relations. Look, you raised an issue on which I think we can have a debate until a final fall, and that is the peculiarity and culture of teachers in medicine in a country like Greece. There's a historical precedent that has the peculiarities so that we don't use words that are more assured. We think that since 1982, with the reform carried out by the then PASOK government and the reforms we are then trying to achieve, one of the things is that this heterogeneous relationship does not exist in our institutions. The teachers of medical schools first and foremost are university teachers and treat a particular sector, such as law, multi-technical schools, humanitarian, etc. It should not be in a democratic country, some should be more equal than others. Obviously the expression isn't mine. So I say that, for what you have raised, you have compared the peculiarity, the culture of the North with the southern ones in Europe, although I am not sure that in the northern countries too are so angelically ill, I think it is a matter of self-awareness and discussion between the scientific community and the general public. As to the other thing you said, look, indeed, if any director leaves and someone else comes and overthrows the surgery or anything else, that means that the new president has not been successful. If, in other words, you are leaving and coming up younger and undermining your own day-to-day function, that means a bad choice. However, a bad election may also be the director who wants to stay until the end of the days of his active term. But certainly not being able to do so is not a photo. To be able to do so is to "photography". So I say that democracy can solve all these problems. Basic guidance is something very positive. If it is now two years left to him, he does not continue to be a director and he is a younger person, I think that can be very positive and encouraging too. We may differ as to what it means encouraging, but it does not matter very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much the Minister. Before we move on to the next timely question, I will read a few more questions that will not be debated as a result of impediments. The second question under number 326/4-2-2019 is the second question of the new Republic MP Christos Boukokorous to the Minister of Economy and Development on the subject: 'Enhancement of the First Industrial Area (BIPE). Volos, will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Stergios Pitsirla, because of a government meeting. The third, under number 317/4-2-2019, topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Michael Jellée, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Understood the situation of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ), will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Stergiou Pitsirla, because of a government meeting. The thirteenth, with No. 279/15-1-2019 topical question for the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the Transport Equivalent", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Nektarios Santoriniou, due to the fact that the same question has been discussed again by the Member himself. The ninth will now be discussed under number 291/22-1-2019, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the "transfer of students from musical and artistic schools". Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes to start with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, today's question concerns the movement of students from artistic and music schools, namely the access of pupils from these schools to such schools. It is not about the teaching content of these schools, which we could say a lot of things about, but about, as we said, we focus on their movement. By September 2018, all students were able to access these schools for free, a move that the respective region was taking care of, with any problems relating to delays in signing contracts and the well-known ones. But that possibility existed. On 26 September there was a joint ministerial decision, which imposed restrictions mainly on kilometres and not only on, but also on conditions for access for pupils to these schools. According to reports from the parents' associations of these schools, the implementation of this joint ministerial decision will exclude 26% of the students of the Art School of Peristeri, 53% of the Art School of Keratsini, 12% of the Art School of Gerakas, etc. We have to say here - you know that, of course, but people who are listening to it, after all, are watching us - that, as far as these schools are concerned, the scope to which they are addressed, the disciple, of course, is not a simple neighbourhood, it is an entire Regional Unity. For example, at the Art School of Thessaloniki they are studying students from all over the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, from all over the prefecture, that is, practically, so you understand that the distances are too long. This is about all schools. Let us add, of course, that there is also the question of transferring from these students, especially to their music schools, to their musical instruments. In any case, our concept is that the transfer of pupils to their schools should be done with state responsibility and be absolutely free. In this sense, then, we call on you, Minister, to withdraw the joint ministerial decision, which you, together with other ministers, signed and puts obstacles and obstacles to the movement of pupils in artistic and musical schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Minister, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Delis, you have carefully concealed the content of this new ministerial decision. First of all, I want you to know that out of the three hundred and fifty thousand students we have, the two-three thousand are transported free of charge throughout the territory and the state pays 120 million euros - the regions, the Ministry, etc. - for the transport of pupils, for the grants of tickets for students and students, etc. First I wanted to say that. Secondly, as far as children are concerned, there is nokilometre restriction at all. My third point is that for all musical and artistic schools - for all - there is no restriction on whether students carry massive musical instruments or not, because indeed if they carry massive musical instruments and next to them, they need help in going to school. For the rest, there is a limit of one and a half kilometres. I think that's very reasonable. Obviously, when they are children of special schools, we are not discussing this and I think we have shown an extremely great amount of progress, in relation to what has been done before, both in terms of transport and in terms of education. As far as music schools are concerned, there is the possibility of transporting children who have very large organs and, of course, there is this restriction for the rest. That's all. Nor does anyone say that schools are being undermined or that these children have no access or anything else. We think it's a rationalization of everyday life. We do not want to, but if we do, we will do so, that is to say, what is happening too many times on special routes that are created from the beginning with the transfer of students, or on the question of contracts with taxi owners, etc. We are trying to tackle these issues without Scandinavianism and with a view to rationalising the issue of the transfer of pupils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u84	As far as we have heard, the Minister refuses to withdraw the joint ministerial decision - certainly we did not expect anything different - and a joint ministerial decision which he has drawn up, too, because it ensures the free transport and movement of thirty-three thousand pupils throughout the country. But, Minister, we have told you very specifically, and on the basis of the information from the parents of these students from their own pan-Hellenic association, that the implementation of this joint ministerial decision, the circular, which will, of course, take place from next year, as you can see, will exclude a significant part of these students from free movement. Now students in all these schools - which are, I think, forty-eight music schools and six artistic schools - are around eleven thousand. So we understand there'll be hundreds, thousands...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u85	Hundreds of thousands? Where does that come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u86	Not hundreds of thousands, some hundreds or thousands. Alas! We are entitled to free movement, Minister, we would defend it even for a child. And of course, you should also recognise that even now that we are talking about this issue of student mobility has not been resolved. There are very serious problems, especially in special treatment, we have even now practicing practising students from the possibility of attending a school, because some competitions there in the area where they live are declared barren. In any case, what we as a JRC say is that the state must finally take over - with what that means - the movement of these pupils into their schools. You spoke about rationalization. Of course, government education policy has rationalization as its forefront. It is indeed a rationalisation, so that expenditure on education - and they are stuck - will remain well-established despite the slight, minimal, inadequate reduction. And that is what seems to be the fact that recruitment, permanent recruitment - I am talking about, Minister - are still expected. There are very serious problems in meeting the operational needs of schools. The money that the government gives to schools is not enough and there are, of course, very serious building problems. As far as these are concerned, especially schools, artistics and music, because it has happened to ask several questions, I would remind you here - we had also asked a written question - that at the Kozani Music School itself the Ministry suspended the operation of the second grade of high school because there were no teachers. At the same time, a building is being sought for the Art School of Thessaloniki, which has the originality of operating in two buildings, which are at least two kilometers away - I happen to know because I come from there - with the consequence of students and teachers moving every day, because they need to move, to change sections and rooms, with everything that that means. They are, therefore, problems which your policy, Minister, cannot solve, nor does it - we say - because it has other priorities and that is why it keeps spending, that is, the money that education needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "Electronics VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized, thirty-nine students and students and three teachers from the Vourgarelios High School and Ano Calentini Artas, who are hosted in Athens as part of an educational program organized by the Foundation of the Parliament. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And I would like to inform you that the reason why you see a few Members in this House is that we are discussing topical questions, where the Member concerned has the right to ask the Minister on a topical matter. And you're lucky, because we're talking about education, and it's the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs here to answer and be informed firsthand. As regards the specific question that is being discussed now, its question is the transfer of students from music and artistic schools, and the Minister will take the floor for a second. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u88	In order not to be regarded as having a special relationship with the schools of Chalkida, we said later, if you like, with great pleasure to meet with you and your teachers. Mr. Delis, I hope what you said isn't right, that there are blockades of disabled students. Because if they exist, I want you to tell me exactly who they are to investigate it. Our information is that, despite the delays of some for the reasons you mentioned, who do not know in time what is going to happen when the school year is beginning the system. It is obvious that there may be cases that we do not know. And there is no question that there should be no problem with regard to children with disabilities. You said that the state should take over the transfer of pupils instead of the regions. This, as you can see, is another logic in our society. We believe that too many functions of the state need to be decentralised. The regions, local government, are such institutions that can absorb these functions. The transfer of pupils is very sensible from the regions and is not a state service, because in any case a central agency will not know what is going on, to the extent that a region will know what is going on in its region. You talked about the building. We have discussed this issue before, and you know that huge responsibility lies with the municipalities. I call on the municipalities to tell us what the programme they have for school buildings is. This is an extremely serious matter. There must be cooperation with the CFP on these issues. I would ask all municipalities - I have said this before and the reactions are less than 10% - to bring us a programme. There's money. "Philodis II" has been very well exploited by some mayors and I call on others to propose projects in school buildings. You're wrong about the Kosani thing. If I remember correctly, why wasn't it part of the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u89	It was at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u90	Yeah. You know, when a school starts, it starts in high school, it goes to second grade, etc. Starting a musician or artistic school with the first and second grades, teaching is not right. There was an obsession with local players, which was not part of our programming. As you said now, we've arranged it and we're going downwards. I want one thing to understand: Are you in favour of transferring all the children of music schools, regardless of how close they are to school and regardless of the kind of instrument they have? One child, that is, can play flute, another child can play violin, another child can play cello that is a massive organ. Are you in favour of such a regulation, or can we put in a logic which says that if there is a massive instrument, you will obviously be transferred, no matter how close you are, to the other one being the one and a half kilometres that applies to the other children? That is what we think is reasonable at a time when our budgets actually have the difficulty of doing so, and that sort of rationalisation helps us to make a more rational distribution of money that is slowly increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third with number 591/29-11-2018 reference to the cycle of the petitions and questions by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Summary of the Muslim priesthoods of Thrace". Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like first of all, before we actually go into the matter, to give up on you and your government for two things. First of all, it is unacceptable to delay four months in answering a timely question or the written question and secondly, instead of coming to the House and to put before the House, as the parliamentary procedure dictates, to refer to meetings and meetings at the Ministry, where meetings do not even call on the representatives of the minority for dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, I do not understand why the honourable Member has given me a resignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u94	That is what my colleague has heard, and he will answer you, Minister. Mr Colleague, if you want to repeat why you are leaving the Minister so that he can answer you. I'm not cutting off your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u95	Sure. Firstly, you were late on 29 November when we tabled a question to the House on this matter, since there was a occupation in a school, children were deprived of school and there was enormous anxiety. You did not answer our question to the House. We turned it into a timely question, in the sense that it is urgent, you did not come to the House to answer and in the end in an illegal way tried to transfer the school to another school in order to break the strike. That's what I'm going to get into. But in any case you cannot solve the problem in this way by avoiding and not coming to Parliament to answer the matter. Now I'm actually coming in, Minister. First of all, as you know, this government, your predecessor Minister for Education, Mr. Philis, had a ministerial decision and everything was going well at the Jerusalem Hall of Thrace. But what happened later? You have come and changed this ministerial decision, thus creating a number of problems and adopting a unanimous decision from school tax and the club. What does this unanimous decision say, which was sent to you when? She was sent to you at the beginning of November. You don't answer. The people tell you the character of the priesthood, that it is a religious school, that it is a minority school, that it is a bakuf school, that it is a special school - there is no question about it - that under the Lausanne Treaty people have the right to have bilingual education, both in Turkish and Greek, and because of the nature of the religious school that some lessons must be and remain without the hours of teaching being reduced. You have, however, changed all of this, violated the above principles, the above provisions with the new ministerial decision that you have made and made five specific proposals, which were as follows: Firstly, they say that the new timetable appears to be inadequate - and I agree - regarding the training and education of candidates for Muslim religious workers. Secondly, with the new timetable the teaching of religious and theological lessons is reduced by sixty-two hours, please, compared to the 2016-2017 timetables, i.e. again this government. Thirdly, limiting the hours of religious education provided by the Jerusalemian University, according to the commenting new timetable, will create a fertile climate for manning fundamentalism phenomena in the Muslim community of Thrace. What does that mean? Because if you are going to deceive the priesthood and close it in time, applying this new ministerial decision, you can tell us clearly, frankly, that people know what they are going to do. Fourthly, if the timetable is not remodeled, it will reduce courses in the Turkish language in such a way as to provide adequate religious training. At the end, based on both the right to use the Turkish language and the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u96	Mr Colleague, if you'd like, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u97	I'm done. So we ask you to withdraw this ministerial decision. It's clear. Two and a half months did not go to school with a unanimous decision to protect what has existed for four hundred years, the Komotini Jerusalem Hall.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I hope that your indignation will also result from the fact that you are seen by your fellow citizens, because it makes me a terrible impression that you have not referred to something that I think Greek citizens have the right to know. How many rituals are there in Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u100	Two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u101	Two. One is in Xanthi, one is in Komotini. Doesn't it surprise you that all you mentioned is done at one time while not done in the other? The others don't have a mind to think? Didn't the others have any criticisms? That is the first question. Secondly, do you know that some teachers have arbitrarily decided to reduce the teaching time in thirty minutes and reduce breaks? I've never heard of taking over from students who want less break than they normally have. That's never happened before. I say, then, if you want to deal with this seriously, we must detect - and I call on you in particular, if we do not want to do so publicly - the most serious reasons for this inconvenience. And to say that what we are most interested in - and we will do so by following dogmatic procedures that ensure the scientific and pedagogical adequacy of these schools - is to remain - we will fight enormously to remain - but also to become modern schools of priests. And, of course, because too many colleagues and our citizens may not know about it, it does not mean that all the children who go to these schools necessarily want to be religious workers. Too many of these children - I have spoken to children - will not become religious officials, they want - and they want their parents to go to such a comment as they do in the Ecclesiastic Gymnasiasias, they do not necessarily become priests. So, first of all, we need a modern school and, secondly, a modern instructional school. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] So we say that we will go ahead with the study of these requests, but we will move on with others. It is not just the individuals concerned, there are committees, there is the IMP, so we can discuss the problems they pose. I can tell you that some of the requests are reasonable and must be met, but we must also listen to the relevant bodies. We didn't think they'd go to another school to bend with the occupation. We said to go to another school, because many parents - and I can show you in particular the letters we have received - had a misgiving with all this and wanted their children to continue this programme. Fortunately, logic prevailed. The occupation has stopped - in my view these absurd requests - and then I met with colleagues from there, I met with the students, I will meet with the Muftis, I will discuss with the IMP towards the completion of these proposals. Of course, you must - and I hope you will agree on this - whatever happens in the Komotini Jerusalemian centre also has the agreement of the factors of the Xanthi Jerusalemian branch. They cannot be two priesthoods, having different programs and different references. Finally, I would also like you to know that a catalyst in the normalisation of the situation was played by SYRIZA MP, Mr Mustafa, who, through negotiations, was able and convinced of the continuation of teaching at the same time as the Ministry, along with - as I said - the teachers, parents and students, where we started this debate. Mr President, I have here a detailed note, which I will present in the Minutes, as well as in the detailed report by the Regional Education Director, on the situation and problems. I'll do it after my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Comrade, give me a few seconds, I see the students have sat down. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-seven students and students and two teachers from the 4th High School of Chalkida (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to say to you that you are following the topical and urgent questions procedure, and that is why you see that there is only one colleague in the Chamber and the Minister responsible who answers his current question and we have the prototyping procedure. Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor at this time. We're talking about education, so you're lucky that the Minister of Education is here, and he's responding to matters that concern you directly. Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u103	Yes, sir. Mr President, first of all you have asked a number of questions, and you have asked me personally, and I will answer them. First of all, you said about my indignation. Indignation is not just mine, Minister. You should know that indignation is all of the minority and all the actors, students and parents, as well as school responsibility. Especially now that you have said and heard and described as absurd the demands of school tax, I think that this indignation will increase proliferationally. You mentioned this term. So I go to your first question you said: "But why does the Xanthi Jerusalem Hall say nothing and the Komotini Jerusalem Hall react?" That's a very simple reason. You know very well, Minister, that on this board, the director of the Komotini Jerusalemian customs service has been expelled, left, made him by decision of the Ministry. And no man was asked to answer and express his opinion. And it was called as a body, that is to say, it has no right to be a member of the committee. And secondly, of course, the Komotini Jerusalem Hall - they are three hundred, four hundred people - is another school. Clearly it's in the same context, but it's got a different base. And there the democratic-based parents decided on that. So your comparison...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u104	What do you mean "another basis"? It's two shrines.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u105	Look. The fact that there are thirty, forty students who, for alpha or beta reasons, do not want to react does not mean that there is no such right in the Komotini Jerusalemian office, Minister. And I tell you, in any case, the responsible body of the Komotini Jerusalemian branch, the director, is not in committee. He came out and didn't hear his opinion. Secondly, you said that children from there would not all become religious officials. Clearly. There is a right to choose, as is the case in ecclesiastical schools. This does not, however, disprove the school's character and actions as to the genuine nature of the school, that the teaching hours of Religiouss should not be reduced. Thirdly, you said that you started a dialogue. What dialogue is this, Minister? This dialogue began after three months. It was started without even calling the interested parties. All the demands of school tax have also been formulated and you have described them as irrational demands. Therefore, this dialogue seems to me to be just a pretext to save and earn time to get away from solving the problem. You said what could be the catalytic role, if I understood correctly, of all this project and how it can be solved. The solution is one, Minister. And I want you to answer this very clearly today in plenary. What were the reasons that led you to withdraw Mr. Friend's ministerial decision? The reasons for modernization are not persuasive. Clearly we want the priesthood to be a modern school, to have structures. Clearly. You also blamed the principal and some teachers, from what I understand, for reducing arbitrary school hours. That's not true either, Minister. That's not practically the case. If, with the consent of students and all parents and all the educational community, two to three minutes were reduced, this was done by consensus. They don't have a problem with the kids. Even for the strengthening teaching that is in the afternoon until 16.00, at 17.00 hours the time is consenting, provided that the timetable was respected until today. Regarding the catalytic role of Mr Mustafa: I do not want to comment on the honourable Member, but the issue was not resolved because of the intervention of Mr Mustafa, but because you illegally and unprecedentedly transferred the school to another building, which is a Bavarian school, could not be done legally, with a decision by the director and parents being forced to safeguard their school, in order not to take absence, because that was blackmail...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u107	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, through extortion and "drill" in another, unfair way you tried and ended the occupation, a democratic right of students there. But you should know that their decision is this and I am giving you the decision of the parents and the school tax: If the problem is not resolved, they have the opinion and the will to continue to fight to resolve the problem, Minister. So we're waiting for your answer and your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u108	Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Now you understand what my dear colleague said. He said that he would either agree with me or the occupation will continue. I can't talk on such terms. However, I would like to know: is the information available to us that the occupation accepts that there are no breaks and that there are thirty-minute lessons? If there's that, it's really something unprecedented. This is where we have schools that listen to us. To take over, because you are claiming an arbitrary curriculum imposed by teachers and no breaks. Watch out, that's what you realize something's wrong. We have not said anything about administrative measures or anything. I understand that more breaks are taking place, of course, for more hours of exercise, of course, I understand that. But is there any request for breaks in order to restore the programme, which is carried out in the arbitrary manner of certain teachers? I insist something's wrong. Secondly, I think we have shown practically the establishment of the Department of Islamic Studies at the University of Thessaloniki and with the kindergartens, where we have the assistant kindergartens who know the mother tongue of children, that what we are interested in is the preservation of the mother tongue of any minorities and at the same time the correct learning of the Greek language. We are Greek citizens and we must all know the Greek language on the very high level, as you know it. This is the state's obligation and at the same time not to erase in any way and cultivate the mother tongue. This is democracy and that is what we are doing in both the schools and the kindergartens of Thrace, which you know what resistance we had from the nationalists, the ethnic thugs, to prevent these kindergartens from operating this year, which fortunately this year is twenty - last year was six - and they are working. However, what I would also like you to know is that at a conference held by the Centre of Greek Language in April 2016, a great deal of poverty had been identified as to the linguistic potential of these children. So that must also concern you. We therefore support not only the Turkish language, not only the Arabic language in the priesthoods, but also the Greek language, because it must be done at a modern school. And you know, ecclesiastical gymnastics and high school are reinforced with Religious lessons. I mean, from normal, they have five hours of the Religious class. In the hierarchy we agreed to be a nine-hour period. So no one can blame us, which is why we do not understand and try to understand the logic of this inconvenience in Komotini. I heard your excuse because nothing is going on in Xanthi and I don't think it's very convincing. I call again for us to try to change the curriculum of study, where it goes undisturbed, but for us to do so by means of procedures involving scientific institutions, the Institute of Education Policy and, above all, educational logic as dominating our thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent questions has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-15-S1-commons.u111	With the agreement of the House at 12.03 p.m., the sitting on Monday 18 February 2019 is closed at 18.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
