ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 28-11-2019, the minutes of the NH's meeting of Thursday, 28 November 2019, with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] (a) "Freedom of energy, modernisation of PPC, privatization of PPC and support for RES and other provisions"; and (b) ‘Intermediation in civil and commercial matters — Further harmonisation of Greek legislation with the provisions of Directive 2008/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 and other provisions’) Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question report on Monday, 2 December 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 247/25-11-2019 by MP MEP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Continue in secondary education schools in the Region of Central Macedonia". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 257/26-11-2019 topical question by Mr. Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Liana Kanelles to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Unions found by the announcement of the provisional tables of Special Education". 3. The 255/26-11-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Culture and Sport, on the subject of ‘Explosive activity in Skouria and the recent decision of the Central Archaeological Council (CSC)’. B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 258/26-11-2019 by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on "Problems at the premises of the National Sport Centre (ESC) Larissa". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 256/26-11-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Showing the Archaeological Walk of the Holy Road". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Timetable of appointments in Special Education and Education, establishment of organic positions, breakdown by industry and specialization and gap coverage". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Boeotia by the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panayios (Giota) Poulou to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on "Delays in the payments of school cleaners". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House in writing of the following: "To the Greek Parliament, Special Secretariat for the President of the Parliament. With this in mind, we are telling you about the debate on the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Friday 29 November 2019 that the topical questions to be debated are as follows: The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. 228/18-11-2019, 233/19-11-2019, 235/19-11-2019, 245/25-11-2019, 254/26-11-2019 and 254/26-2019 1125-47/10-2019, 1152/8-10-2019 questions, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Questions Nos 217/15-11-2019, 244/25-11-2019 and 248/25-11-2019 1317/16-10-2019 question, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 216/14-11-2019 topical question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. 229/18-11-2019, 252/26-11-2019 and 253/26-11-2019 topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr Eleftherios Economou. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Questions Nos 215/12-11-2019, 259/26-11-2019, 263/26-11-2019 and 263/26-2019 1199/11-10-2019 and 1237/14-10-2019 questions, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Secretary of State for Health Mr Vassiliou Kontozamanis. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 243/25-11-2019 topical question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis. Please, as you take the appropriate steps to inform both the President-in-Office and the honourable Members. O Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis.’ First we will discuss the first question with No 244/25-11-2019 in a timely second question by MP Pellas of the New Democracy Mr Vassiliou Vassiliou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Completion of a National Road Axis EO2 project’. The question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis. Mr Vassiliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. I'm going straight to the point. Our question concerns the project 'National Road Axis EO2'. In fact, this is the road link between Pella and Thessaloniki. In this case, it has been broken down into the following sub-projects: ‘Halkidonas bypass’, ‘Giannitson bypass’, ‘Montenegro – southern Edessa bypass’ and ‘Go Agra bypass’. According to the previous government's assurances and assurances, the Halkidona bypass and the Yannitson bypass have a full curriculum maturity. The road section “Montenegro – South Edessa Bypass” presents partial study maturity for the road section “Rescue Agra” the studies have not yet been completed. In fact, they noted that the project is ready to be announced, when the expropriations are completed and its funding will be carried out by the unsettled, which will result from the revision of the NRP of the current programming period 2013-2020. We are coming to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, where the Prime Minister mentioned the value of this work and the importance he attaches to its completion. But, as he mentioned, the project is completely immature. At the same time, you yourself, Minister, have said in your positions and in the House that the problem lies in the financing of the project and in particular in the lack of cost-benefit analysis. As you can see, these positions have caused serious concern in the world of Pella, waiting day after day for the bulldozers. So because this is a matter of paramount importance and because people want and deserve to learn the full truth at last, we would like some clarification: above all, what has happened to this day? Where are we? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, thank you for your timely question, because I am given the opportunity, once again, to clarify things, to clarify the situation and to inform the citizens of your constituency with full honesty. On this issue, I think that the wider region - I would say - has been dealing with decades ago. I know very well that there is misinformation about the roadworks and the responsibility for this, I feel that they bear many governments over time, but you will allow me to say that the previous government has broken every bit. And that was evident to everyone - I think - on 27 September, when in a timely question we found all the lies and mockery suffered by the people of Pella. I shall try once again to clarify the situation. So the truth is this. Any studies available for the two bypasses of Halkidona and Yannits are 2011. This means that they need to be updated. And, if you please, I can give you details in my dentistry to explain to you what the process is. The truth is that situations and the standards we have today are completely different from those which existed ten years ago, and we should always have that at the back of our minds when we talk about major infrastructure projects, such as the project, which has a budget of 200 million. The European Commission, Mr Colleague, is now stricting the procedures and, if you like, the view of the government and mine, it is right to do so. Because a technical council has been set up by the European Union, the so-called JASPERS, who are'slapping' all the projects. What we must once understand in this country is that after 2015 it is not enough for you to have a curriculum maturity that we do not have here, especially for the part "Montenegro-Edessa" that the Prime Minister mentioned in his speech at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. There is no study maturity. Therefore, the European Commission is no longer coming to approve because you as the Hellenic Republic are ready for study maturity. It doesn't mean that because I have a ready study, I'll get money. He tells you, if you want to fund the project, go from the PPP and finance it. If you want money from the agencies and the European funds, JASPERS should approve the project. What the European Commission is asking, in this case, are feasibility and sustainability studies, so-called cost-benefit analysis. So no such study has been prepared for these two nodes. Therefore, the project at the moment cannot benefit from European funding or join the ESDP. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would remind you that the project had previously been excluded from the national transport plan. It is not within the national transport plan with responsibility from the previous governments, and the reality is that we now have to run very quickly, in order to mature our studies, update them and try to find funds. We are in full contact with the Region of Central Macedonia and with the relevant Vice-President and your region and Mr Bilia, who, as former President of the TEE, knows these issues very well, and we are very soon trying to find a solution to a problem, which will not be solved tomorrow. Because these problems are not solved from one day to the next. I therefore understand that the people of Pella may wait for the bulldozers, but unfortunately, they have fallen victim to an incredible political deception from the previous ones. To close, saying that, because you have been elected now and you are a new Member of Parliament, it is important to say something, which goes beyond the whole political debate, if you like. All previous governments have been responsible for delaying this project over time. Simplifiedly, the previous government tried with a smokescreen, if you like, to fly 10 million euros to the Region and to say'start the expropriations'. This gave the feeling of starting the project, but expropriations take at least two years. We have a solution for the matter of expropriations. We will use the 7A procedure, which for projects of national importance these expropriations are carried out by a very rapid process, after being approved by the Ministerial Council, so that once it has dismantled this very important project, which has led to isolation of the whole region. In my dentext I will tell you about the technical characteristics of the project and why in particular, if you want to be informed, there are objections and why this work is not easily funded, as planned today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u5	Mr Vasiliade, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. So, Minister, you tell us, in short, that nothing has happened or even that what has happened has to happen again, because it has not been done properly. Let me say that I am not at all satisfied with the answer, and of course, I mean as far as the current situation is concerned, which you have also received. I have, of course, the sincerity of your intentions. Minister, I would once again like to emphasise the importance of this project for Pella. We are talking about priority work for us, as it concerns the safe and rapid movement of people and products from the county through the county, and it also helps to remove the development deficit presented by Pella. It is well known that our region has been neglected for several reasons. As you said, there has been a flagrant injustice, but we must correct it. So we will, among other things, provide incentives for new investments, since it is a development project and not just an infrastructure project, which you understand, as I have seen in your protagonists. So we have to be clear. There is this situation and we will take these actions. As honestly and frankly you have referred to the first two sections, so I have to say for the other two. With regard to the section 'Montenegro-Edessa' to which you referred, all steps must be taken to complete the study. There are committed EUR 500,000 in the number of this part of the project since 2014 of the then Government of New Democracy for this part of the project. In other words, Minister, in the four and a half years of the previous government, no energy has been made at all for this part either. As far as the last part 'Twelfths - Upgrading - Agra' is concerned, we are unfortunately learning that nothing has happened at all. That is why we must also take immediate care. It is therefore important for us, for the people of Pella, to tell us more thoroughly what action you are planning and especially in what depth of time you see the completion of this project. Finally, I would like us to agree that this work will remain a priority in national planning, because it is indeed a project of the highest national importance, as you said, and since it is characterised as 'the highest national importance', the procedures that need to be launched will be sooner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u7	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Let's get things back in order. The section 'Thessaloniki - Edessa', as you quite rightly said, is divided into the following points: 'Halcedona bypass', 'Halcedona - Paralimene', 'Giannitsa bypass' - and here, as I said, 'Montenegro bypass' and 'Montenegro - Edessa'. The two studies, concerning the two major bypasses, the ones of Halkidone and the Giannitsa, have gone ahead. As I said, the question is not whether or not they have moved forward. There is a need for an update. But that is not something to worry about. We must be concerned, however, about something else. What must concern us, Mr President, is that this project - that is good to say again - is not within the national transport plan. So we have a number one problem. We have not incorporated this into the national transport plan, which is necessary, so that we can achieve good results in our request for funding. The second, though, and most importantly, we are now entering a time when, with climate change, the European Union is moving on to a process that starts and finances less large motorways. Why is that so? This is because Europe has set very specific targets for climate change and by 2050 it has a very ambitious agenda and a very ambitious objective, to have a Europe, what we say, with zero CO2 emissions. So every time we come - or every country of the European Union - and we say that we want to make a quadruple road, and here the Halkidona bypass is 5.3 and eight kilometers respectively, and the design of the bypasses is for a quadrum crossing, with a central island of a width of EUR 21.10 and an estimated cost of EUR 200 million, Europe comes and tells you something very simple: There are traffic burdens that justify such a great road? Here, therefore, the Hellenic Republic must come, with the cost study, with the so-called costs - beefits analysis and justify whether this is true and whether there are reasons or not. Here, therefore, Europe tells us that the reasons are not there. Therefore, unfortunately, we are in the unpleasant position, if we want to achieve European funding, to change the profiles of the project. We have to discuss this and we are now discussing it with the European institutions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, please, for a while your tolerance. However, I am telling you sincerely - and you and the citizens of Pella - that at this stage, as the project is designed, there is no way that it will be financed by European funds. One case is to help the region as a Ministry, to exhaust the procedures of the studies, to complete them all, as well as environmental studies, and to try to integrate this project financially into one of its programmes with the help of the Greek public. You know better than me - I think we all know - that the EIP is not enough at the moment to finance this project. That is something we have to say with absolute openness. From now on, for whatever projects we want to finance, for such major projects, we must seek money from Europe. So that's something we have to understand once. When Europe comes and gives you money, it sets terms and conditions. SYRIZA understood it in 2015, after Mr. Varoufakis' six-month period. This is how the European Union works. You want money? You have to tell me, why do you need them? Why do you want them? Where are the studies? And why should this work be financed? As I said to other colleagues in your region, who are unable to understand it, unfortunately today, especially after 2015, does not mean that because we have a mature study, a project is automatically funded. I hope I didn't give you the technical details. I am at the disposal of all the Members of this House to explain these issues. We must put matters on the right foot, leave the past and see how we can start this project, so that Pella can once be completed and gone from the isolation of many decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u9	We are now entering the debate of the second under No 248/25-11-2019 topical question of the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Notopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The risk of postponing the expansion of the metro in western Thessaloniki". And in this timely question will the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Here, Mr. Notopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, good morning. I am, unfortunately, in the unpleasant position to bring to Parliament once again - you - a question about the Thessaloniki metro, a metro which is obviously determined as a government to dismantle it, as was once again the case with tram. I say this because it is useful to draw conclusions from history. You know that we received a project stopped, that we went ahead with it, that spaces were released, that stations, tunnels, the train. A work, then, that drowned the city with holes and turned into a nightmare, is almost ready and you stop it again. But we didn't stay in this. We did not, in other words, stay in the central line, but we prepared the tender for the precursors of extending the metro to the western districts, such as the archaeological sections, the transport of the networks, all that you had not done for the main metro line. That's how we got here today. The construction of a single circular line, connecting the two extensions to Naapoli and Stavroupolis and to Cordelios - Eusmos, was chosen by the "ATITIC METRO" for Western Thessaloniki. It would go to Papageorgiou Hospital. Western expansion was expected to serve an area with over three hundred and fifty thousand people and a special economy. They're less degraded areas and more densely populated areas. In fact, engraving took place after consultation with all mayors, with all the actors in the region, with the District Director, with the chambers. I will report to you - I will put it at the end in the Minutes - that Mr Gross had made a statement. He said that such a project could be financed from the 2020 package, especially if it has maturity in the studies. You put it very well before your previous answer, saying that, in order to finance these projects, we need maturity and of course we will need to predict in time whether there are ancient ones, so that we do not fall back into the same ones. Sadly, Mr. Tachiaos, the President you chose for "ATTIO METRO", said that the work of expanding the Thessaloniki metro to the northwest is not visible at this stage we are. In another interview - she will also be tabled in the Minutes - she said that "there is no saliva" and other things. I do not know where Mr Tachiaos is being informed, but you, Minister, are asked if you are in favour of this view, that is to say if it is the official view of the Ministry that the extension to the west is not to take place and what technical documentation is based on the view of the appeal of this planned cyclical engraving and what impacts, which are to be found in the timetable for expansion to the west, especially given that it serves over five hundred thousand people in a particular area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Notopoulou, you will allow me to tell you that things are not exactly like this, and I thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify some misunderstandings that have been made. I can tell you, of course, by taking a step back, that SYRIZA's ingenuity with regard to the Thessaloniki metro continues to surprise me, because after the myth moved in the city of Thessaloniki - not by you, but by many other officials and by the relevant Ministry's leadership in your time - we almost believed that the metro would be ready in 2020-2021. And now, you're supposed to tell us that we don't want to expand the metro to Western Thessaloniki, which, as you quite rightly said, is a degraded area, and it's right that the state should take care of a city, which at the moment has really broken-down transportation. OSH is in a tragic situation - I am very sorry to say this - with the primary responsibility of the previous government, which managed to make the first statement after thirty years. Therefore, its metro and expansion to Western Thessaloniki is something that we have not abandoned. But what is the reality? For the work of expanding Thessaloniki metro to the northwest of the city, there are currently too many loose ends and that is exactly what the President of Attica Metro said, as regards both the maturity of some design elements, and the fact that so far all the necessary technical studies have not been prepared. Honestly, I cannot understand how this description of the current situation is related to the Government's supposed intention to postpone expansion. We have never said that, and what the President of the "ATTIC MEETRO" said does not lead to this conclusion and they do not deny the company's ability to proceed with the assignment of the precursors, which you mentioned. On the contrary, I can tell you that the imminent signature of the contract of the Western extension precursors by the "Attica Metro" and the contractor, which has emerged following a tender, will normally proceed to the maturity of the procedures necessary for the implementation of the main project. The fact that precursors are starting does not mean that we have maturity or funding in this project. We need to make that clear. A pre-process is under way, which is why work is being done in order to make the necessary studies, to make the necessary work, which is in many stages, at many levels and geotechnics, to see whether, as you quite rightly say, we can incorporate this project, the extension of the metro to Western Thessaloniki, in the 2021-2027 programming period. So let the myths that relate either to ancient or to western expansion. You're a new politician. I think we need to dematerialise this tension, which has been created in Thessaloniki and see the real technical problems that the current government has done. In fact, I was very critical of the previous leadership of the Venizelos station, because I believe that it selects a false tactic, but in the rest of the work I have repeatedly stressed that the previous government has indeed progressed satisfactorily in the metro process. I think the Thessalonians are tired of our own controversy, which often makes no sense. We must now all sit down at a table and agree that this work must be completed as soon as possible, because if it does not end by 2023, we are at risk that this work will end, as in other projects - which we will shortly be discussing - and, finally, that is something that, you know, will affect the whole country and we will no longer be able to hide as a government, but neither will you as a opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u13	Mrs. Notopoulou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u14	I'll start with your ending. I'll point out that you're really right. Of course, the city is tired of holes and not of those who complete the works and ask you to complete them and do not stop them again. The danger is indeed visible. I hope this will make you review your stance in relation to your recurring and destructive choice for the Venizelos station. But, Minister, the topical question today does not come by accident or come because we imagined it. Also, mayors' reactions to the west do not accidentally come. They come after Mr. Tachiau's statements. So Mr Tachiaos did not see an extension to the west, because - as he said - there is no funding guaranteed. I imagine you will inform him of the need for maturity in order to ensure funding. He also told us that we're not done with the basic line and we're going to start opening other fronts. You're not going to finish with the base line. I don't remember if you've visited Thessaloniki lately. But it would be good to do it. You will see for yourself, taking the work logs, that no work is being done at the moment. I would also like to point out to you, Minister, that in the last few days it has been heard and said by Mr Tachiaos - and not only - that there are no stations. I think you should trust the 'ATTIC MEASURES'. He's got a lot of experience. There are specific studies. You know that. You will allow me to close, saying that it is no accident for yesterday's piece of legislation that gives an extension of life to the sinner OSH. It is clear, therefore, that you are not ready to give any further solution. I have nothing more to say. But I would like to ask you, with the weight of the responsibility we both have - and above all you, as Minister - to visit Thessaloniki and to commit before the mayors that you will adopt, embrace and implement the work, which has already been announced by the government of SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u16	Mrs. Notopoulou, with all due respect, the works are neither Alexis Tsipras, nor Mr. Mitsotakis, nor SYRIZA, nor PASOK. These projects are projects belonging to the Greek people, because this project was launched in 2006 by the then government of the New Democracy. Therefore, these projects, especially what we call 'underground railway projects', are projects that take a lot of time. Others envision them, others design them, others auction them. You guys were very good at cutting ribbons into mushrooms. So don't go in this conversation. You spoke of a stopped project that you received. This project had been stopped for two basic reasons and you know it very well. Firstly, because there was an appeal in the S.H.E. which had frozen the project and, secondly, there has been the great controversy since 2013 on the issue of the Venizelos station, as well as because of the economic crisis and the enormous problems Greece had at that time. I say again to be clear. Yes, the work has been unrooted to a very large part of it from the previous government, and I recognise that. But what you have done at Venizelos Station is the greatest political fraud the citizens of Thessaloniki have ever experienced. And because you regretted me that I have not visited Thessaloniki, I correct you and tell you that I went without notifying anyone at Venizelos Station to see if the construction work of the station has begun. I assure you there was no construction site. You know what was there? Just fun on top. So you understand that even in the New Democracy, you were convinced - because you are so good at political communication and political deception - that the Venizelos station had begun. Well, nothing had started! Now, for OSTH, let us not discuss this because it really yesterday and your parliamentary representative did not say a word on this matter, because obviously, as this politician is experienced, it recognises the enormous responsibilities you have on the fact that you have kneeled the urban transport in Thessaloniki. But that doesn't matter. It is important - to return to your question about the extension to the western suburbs - that we do not abandon the project. Mr. Tachiaus didn't say anything. It may have exaggerated to some extent, as you know that many times when we have very large media exposure something can be said, perceived and taken out of content. What he said that there is no funding, that the project is not visible - meaning that it is visible immediately, because it is at a very early stage - you admitted it as well. You told us about the precursor work, and I can tell you that the precursors and the auctioned contract will continue properly. So I don't think there's any cause for concern about the fact that we're going to cancel the extension to Western Thessaloniki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u17	We will proceed to the twelfth with number 217/15-11-2019, a topical question for the second question by the Member of the Ilias Movement of Change, Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "An analysis of the government's proposals for the Patras - Tower" project. Also, the first question under number 1317/16-10-2019 of the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport - will be discussed, on the subject of "unjustifiable delays in the implementation of the Patras - Pyrgos road". Given that these two questions are negotiating the same issue, they will be discussed at the same time, in accordance with the provision in Rule 131(4) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. All the speakers, in other words the questioners and the Minister, will speak as much time as the regulation provides for. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware that the citizens of Elias are fighting reasonablely and complaining about the fact that the Elijah Prefecture is now removed from the modern roads. I am talking about the work of Patras - Tower, the modern "Arta's hamburger", as it stands, about the delay in the implementation of which there is a cross-party and a time-consuming responsibility. It is overwhelming, however, the responsibility of the previous government of SYRIZA, which received a ready-to-date project in 2014 with guaranteed funding and decided to re-publish it in eight contractors, with the first tender being finalised fourteen months after the cancellation of the single project tender and to integrate the project into the NSRF two years after the approval of the European Commission three years after the cancellation of the tender. Of course, the current Prime Minister visited Elias on 12 June, and said that, for him and his resignation, it is a priority that the project should be carried out in the shortest time, which you are saying and nobody doubts the sincerity of your intentions and yours and your Prime Minister and your government. However, it has been over this entire period without any official information. We have a briefing from you at the end of October to reporters. On November 11, after you see that there are the decisions of the municipal councils of Elijah, which are complaining of all Elijah's vindicators of delay and unofficial placement, you are meeting the mayors and informing them that you have three proposals. The first sentence is to give the piece Patras - Tower to a concessionaire so that it can be properly built within a timescale. The second proposal is to open a new tender for the whole of the contractor. And the third proposal is to split the project into four pairs of companies. Today, the situation is that the project has really frozen, is not being implemented and there is a visible risk - you have seen it too - to keep the project without funding and to have to return the EUR 293 million from the Cohesion Fund. The question, which has three legs, is: Which one of the three solutions, allegedly proposed to the Commissioner, will you finally choose for the implementation of the project? What is the implementation time, taking into account the time from possible judicial disputes that will arise? And what costs does the final solution entail? This also concerns construction costs, compensation costs and, of course - and not to underestimate - the cost of tolls to be borne by users if the concession is to be made to the consortium. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Patras - Tower is a vital project for the Prefecture of Ilias, as well as for the neighbouring Prefectures of Achaia, Zakynthos, Kefalonias. Over the last ten years, there have been hundreds of six fatal accidents on this highway and more than a hundred fellow citizens have been killed. Also, Elijah has been convicted of low growth rates compared with other prefectures. I would like to say that the government of the New Democracy and the PASOK has criminally completed this project, the Patras - Tower - Good Water - Chacona, part of which is the Patra - Tower, since the concession of the Olympian Road. The SYRIZA government, as soon as it took over the governance, started negotiations with the European Commission that ended after painful and persistent efforts to secure funding of EUR 293 million and to approve the implementation of the project. Today we have five contractors running. For the remaining two of the three, up to eight left, the successful contractors expect you, who have been late since the summer, to proceed with legal selection procedures. For the eighth contractor, we expect the decision of the Council of State to be cleared. As my colleague has said, there are statements in the press that you are saying that you are considering these three cases, namely a total cancellation of the project and a reopening. In fact, you have recently said that the best solution would be to reintegrating the project into Olympia, after the outcome of years of work. The questions are therefore specific. What addresses of the European Commission are you in contact with? What questions have you asked? What is your political will regarding the construction of the motorway? What is the estimated cost with which you are renegotiating this contest or another contest in order to cancel the existing one and open a new one? If you reopen the entire project or part of it, with which budget will you implement the tender? With this in 2014, or with the updated studies carried out in the eight competitions and having more than double the amount of inert materials? In your design, to integrate the project into the concession of the Olympian road, have you taken into account the delays due to the judicial actions of the already established contractors and the compensation they will claim? Have you asked for the concession of Olympia road to be made to the financial price for the construction of the road axis and, if so, to what amount? What have you been told? What amount will they require? Do you have a timetable for the government's final decisions given that the delay that is created translates the final delivery dates of the project? How will you guarantee funding for the motorway with two lanes per direction and separating island and not a smaller cross sectional project, if you choose to conduct a single competition and therefore reduce competition and discounts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u22	In your tolerance, of course, because I have two selective colleagues to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u23	You've got six minutes, so it's twice the time for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u24	I'll try to be brief. I sincerely amazed, with the size of hypocrisy, when I see SYRIZA MPs who have not been talking about the huge delays in this task for four years now to move our fingers and dare to invoke the victims of traffic accidents into texts of your questions. Four and a half years, how many roads and deadly accidents did we have? I'll let you know. Every year we have at least thirty dead on these roads. Don't go to this process to add how many dead and how many fatal accidents have we had in the last four and a half years? So I would advise you to be more careful when you talk about delays, because both Mr Katrinis and the KINAL have asked a question on the same subject. Man recorded his concerns and whether we disagree or agree on the outcome of this work, he has an honest starting point, he did not come here to do the theater of irrationality and talk about blood on the streets. You do this in a way that really surprises me. So since SYRIZA has so weak a memory, you'll allow me to help her freshen her up. The New Democracy, as Mr Katrinis quite rightly said, in his co-chairship with PASOK, was ready for tender in Patras - Tower with a budget in 2014 of 443 million. Lower budget, my dear SYRIZA colleague, than partition, because you said something about competition. Therefore, you understand that this argument is collapsed. You and your party have blown up the work in the air. You and your party canceled a ready-made contest. I am passing along, the road would be ready today, in 2019, if you hadn't canceled, as Mr. Katrinis quite rightly said, the project and if it had not taken you 14 months to re-publish the project. Why did you do that? To say it all openly in this Chamber, you have done it for one single reason: to strengthen a specific construction group. And you wanted this project, which is why you gave four out of eight to Mr. Kalogrisa and the "TOXOTIS" consortium, to help this businessman become a canalarch and be a publisher. This is the reality and we all know it in this Chamber and everyone knows it in western Greece too. Therefore, it is once good to say things by their name. So don't come here and move our fingers, because I remind you that as a Professional Opposition we had repeatedly impacted the alarm in time and said that this work will not proceed as partition. Firstly, DG REGIO and the European Commission do not approve the divisions of projects. Every time the project was partitioned in Greece, the project exceeded each budget and exceeded each schedule. The Aktio - Ambrosia has cost the Greek and European taxpayers EUR 6.1 million per kilometre. Broom contracts, so-called supplementary contracts, are more precise than the initial budget contract of the project. Is that what you want to do in Patras tower? Well, no. We must once stand up and tell the absolute truth to the citizens of western Greece. That is right - and I think for the first time in the national Parliament - I have an opportunity to tell you where we are now. Because we're with our backs on the wall. First of all, the Commissioner is not even Mrs Bullch. It's Mrs. Westager, who's a Competition Commissioner. Mrs. Bullch was a transport commissioner. When I met Mrs Westager, at first I asked her - and I think that we should once say so - apologies on behalf of the Greek Republic for the relics in this work. For Europeans do not see parties and Ministers. The serious institutions want to see the Greek state all the time. So what did we do? In 2013, this project responded to the concession, because it was part of the concession. In 2015, we re-publish it as a single with guaranteed funding, and then we come and divide it. And now the Hellenic Republic, with the spokesman for the speech and asking Mrs Westager to put the work back on the concession. Why are we doing this? Firstly, because this work will be over quickly, this work will be done in a very short time and we will not have the problems that we have in partitioning. However, in order to achieve this - I want to be honest - we have two conditions: firstly, to agree to the concessionaire, which is not one company. We therefore need to have a negotiation with the concessionaire to agree on the price - and that is where we are - so that the price is not outrageous. Secondly, we need the approval of the European Commission. So at this stage, we are very close to reaching a final agreement with the concessionaire so that the price, as you quite rightly said, is not the outrageously higher than the project budget. Here I would like to say the following: other budgets and a discount. When we give a 50% discount to the project, it does not mean that this project will be completed with a 50% discount. I would also like to inform you that experience teaches that the greater the discounts on public projects and infrastructure projects, the longer the time is, we go beyond schedules and we almost never meet this discount. We always have additional contracts. Therefore, the big discounts must be ringing at the bells and making us quite questionable. Mrs Westager sees this positive, but she has a procedure for adoption. As you can see, we are doing the opposite of what you have done, because we are the true Europeanists. We first ask the opinion of the European Union and we ask for it to be approved, and then we announce methods of tendering. You did the wrong thing. Therefore, after we agree with the concessionaire, we will go to committee. And if we take the light, it will stick the piece Patras - Tower to the concession and the work will be ready before 2023. Why before 2023? Because if it is not ready before 2023, we risk, as you quite rightly said, asking for the money back, which we have received from the Cohesion Fund. So we're doing something else. At this stage we are trying to add a bridge to the next financial period, at least not to lose the money, which you did not do. Because by fragmentation the European Commission has come and shaked your finger and pulled your ears and said that "I am not going to put this project into a new programming period". If this scenario does not work - because I told you what the two conditions are - then we have the possibility or we can cancel it and reopen it, which we do not want to do or find any way, as the project is designed, to break it into two main divisions, in two quarters and to continue the project. These are the options we have. There are no other options. We must therefore, unfortunately, make a little patience, come to the negotiations with the concessionaires and see if the European Commission approves us to turn the clock back and bring the Patras - Tower back to the concession. In my dentistry, if you like, I can refer to other details of the procedure that is being followed in these cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u26	Minister, I am sure the citizens of Elias will agree that there are overwhelming responsibilities over time and intergroups - I want to be fair, I said it in my prototype, and now - for the non-implementation of the project and how the Patras - Tower from part of the Olympian road consortium is now coming to be a project that is at risk. And I think that's a common confession. We therefore agree with the overwhelming responsibilities of the previous SYRIZA government, which received a situation at a good level and concluded, shortly before the elections, that it should cut ribbons and celebrate why it handed over five of the eight signed contractors. Here, Minister, we will disagree because today you are coming and telling us what you have said to the members of local government and the media, you are saying this today in Parliament for the first time, that you are in negotiations with the European Commission, that you are in negotiations with the consortium. Today, however, we are talking about the fifth month of the new New Democracy Government. You do not give us a clear timetable for when the procedure will be completed, what time will it take if, as you say, the plan is not adopted and you go to the second or third sentences. And, of course, we are discussing this in a situation where there is too much pressure and you know that very well. Why are you sure that with the existing project, the project will not be completed by the end of 2023 and we will have to return all the 293 million euros, while the contractors who have taken the contractors send letters to you, saying that they are not only ready...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u27	Don't go there now. It exposes you what you say about contractors. Are you a contractor's telephony?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u28	Minister, I'm saying this. The contractors with whom the Greek State has signed a contract say: "You have received the letter".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u29	Which one? Who's this contractor who sent the letter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u30	I will not make a nominal report, Minister. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u31	Why? Are you ashamed? Are you scared?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u32	They say that they can hand over the work in the long term and, in fact, - and that is the important thing, and you have to answer, you have not responded - they are threatening legal actions, saying that they will not accept any compensation you indebted to them. This therefore creates a problem for the repayment period. I do not know when you intend to request an extension to become the bridge project once the project has been started and if it is given after 2023. The only thing is that today we are not getting a clear answer to the timetable, to the costs and to the way in which the Patras Tower project will finally be completed, to give a breath of development to the Elias Prefecture. I think it is an issue in which you, too, agree that it is not worth the region to remain in isolation any more and to pay all this oligopoly, which has been culminated in the previous government period and to pay any delay that today, in fact, has a very great cost to Elias Law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, of course, I am referring to the dead, which we have on this road, because Elias has paid a very heavy blood tax and we must do so, we have a duty to do so. I also mentioned in my protagonist that it was criminal to answer the project in 2013 from the concession of the Olympic Road. Now, after so many years, you come and you say we'll try to reincorporate it, give it back to Olympia. And how will you convince Europeans? Why then did you answer it and today you're trying to join it? We have a project that is being built, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u35	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u36	Of course, it's made. There are construction sites, contractors installed and the work is built.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u37	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u38	There are too many publications, which you can see, with the projects that are being implemented. The contractors, as my colleague has said, accuse you of being obsessed with dismantling the existing contracts, of giving the work to Olympia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u39	The contractors have representatives in the Greek Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u40	From her, didn't you get the play? Why did you remove it then and now you want to see it again? It accuses you of having suspended payments for the contracts being executed for four months and whoever says that the road with existing contractors cannot be built has to prove it with arguments. You said before that the European Commission does not approve divisions. But the work has been approved, Minister. This project has been approved. How was the project approved? Is it not approved by the European Commission? How is there funding for EUR 293 million? Of course, it has been approved and it is a project that is being built and implemented. And you have been late in entrusting the next shareholders, the participating contractors, the next contractors. You say that the project will be done vaguely in 2023 and you are also looking for a 'bridge'. So you confess that it's actually going after 2023. The government of SYRIZA did not need to do this, because the work with the existing design was carried out in 2023. And you, with your delays, create the possibility and danger of blowing the work to the air, but certainly delaying going after 2023. That's what you'll do with your delays. We are - you say - right now with the back wall. Of course, we're on the back wall because of your delays. You're not answering any specific questions. You're talking about the 2014 competition. What was the funding? Then what inert material did the studies contain? Studies were carried out afterwards and the inert materials were more than twice as much. What competition are you talking about for 2014? Nor did the inert material studies have been completely wrong and fewer than the subsequent studies. Again, I say that the people of Elijah have paid a heavy blood tax and demand the continued construction of the project. The project is being implemented. Don't delay any more. Go directly to the assignment to the next curators of the project, to proceed and build, to have a modern highway, not to mourn other victims and Elias finally to enter the development map.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u41	The Minister has the floor for his denology for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u42	I'm starting to say this. It is sad to see two representatives of the Greek Parliament coming here and presenting the arguments put forward by contractors. I'm sorry! I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u44	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u45	We, dear Mr. PASOK,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u46	Hasn't he signed a contract with the public? Have you denounced her? Complaint her!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u47	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u48	Don't shout, because you don't even know the Commissioner's name now and you've all become experts. So read, first, my dear, to learn, and then move my finger. We, the Government of the New Democracy, the 'Groups' of the Right, my dear, will not accept. Those who hide behind Italian companies that don't exist...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u49	How many contractors did he get? Don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u50	They haven't signed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u51	One has signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u52	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u53	You're wrong. A contract has been signed from eight. So the compensation will be for a contract. There is therefore no question of compensation. Now, as far as the work of Patras tower is concerned, I sincerely urge you to go together and see them. They're a bunch of handkerchiefs and some work is being done to make the feeling that something is going on. I wish the contractor would start off and even do some precursor work. At contraction five, my dear, the new government received a dump. You know that? So I'm telling you. And SAD has been ordered to the Ministry. In contraction five thousand tons of garbage were found. That's how works start from garbage? And the contractor comes in and calls for compensation from the Greek State to deliver this land clean to him. That's what you did. Four years you as SYRIZA have fooled the citizens of this region. You did the work, as you did not have to do, to make Mr. Kalogritsa and the "TOXOT" publisher and entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u55	Do you know what you've done? You then flew him, as a lemonopard, into the bucket of the useless and he was declared down, because two months before the election you did not give him guarantees from your favourite bank, the Bank of Attica. What did we do? We just validated this reality. Well, since Mr. Kalogericas is not coming, you are now coming here and you are moving letters from other contractors to me. Let your voters judge that. Let your voters, who brought you to the Greek Parliament, judge whether you should be sent back to the House next year. Because the argument here is not to swing any papers from contractors. The contractor, my dear, wants to get money, doesn't want to finish the project. The contractor is a businessman.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u56	Hasn't he signed with you? Complaint him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Colleague, why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u58	We'll report him when we have to. Now are you swinging our finger?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u59	Is he a public contractor or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Catarini, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u61	Yeah, yeah, he's a contractor. Did you tell him...? A contract has been signed. An advance has been paid for a contractor, for your favourite contractor, it seems.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u62	He's not my favorite. Mr. Karamanlis, this is far from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u63	Where we are, I have explained, the procedure at least wants - because you asked me for timelines - a semester to see whether the European Commission will approve.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u64	Six months from now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u65	That's right. Because you move my hands when you, my dear, of SYRIZA, canceled the work of 2015, took you four years to give you an advance on one. You canceled a project that was ready for funding and today it would be ready. So the SYRIZA government has been responsible for the dead for the last four years. And don't move the finger here to us and tell us about the dead. Because you insult the memory of these people. Because if we continue, my dear, the fragmentation, the work will never be done and you know that better than I do, because we have the example of Akti - Ambrosia. So what do you want? Do you serve any interests of contractors? Because that's what the contractors want, we'll start fast, we'll get the partition, we'll get the money. Because it's a small country, we all know each other in here. We all know which contractors or rather who, which you do not have the courage to name...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u66	I'm nobody's representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u67	Then why do you move his letter to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u68	But you guys didn't get the letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u69	And he sent it to you, and he sent it to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u70	He notified it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u71	Mr Katrin, this Regulation does not provide for any tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u72	Well, that controversy is over. It doesn't make any sense. We want the project to end. We do not use arguments from certain contractors that everyone knows in the technical world that they cannot finish the project.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u73	Undo it if you don't believe it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u74	No, it can't. Listen, my dear, because you are too young, is not so 'end it'. That's what you guys did, obviously. It's not 'end it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u75	Minister, don't hold a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u76	Before concluding a contract, before denouncing a contract, we must have the approval of the European Commission. Now listen, how we operate in this Chamber! Are you coming to tell me "stop it"? Is that how you operate? I told you three options. If the first does not work, it is clear that we should sit at the table with the contractors that exist. There will be too many objections, because if the contractor goes to the second and the third will object. And I assure you that the partition project will not end until 2023. And that's not what I'm saying. It is said by anyone who knows the technical issues and the whole technical world of the country. Those who don't say that are the specific contractor who wants to resurrect his company through this work and never make the way. Well, I don't care about contractors. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is not interested in business interests. We will not come here to move contractors' letters. We will find a solution and the project will end. And then SYRIZA will be apologised for the huge delay that took place in this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too. We're moving on to the next question. The fifth will be debated under number 252/26-11-2019, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kriton - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “Illegal surveillance of protesters from Security”. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. It was not a good picture that we saw with the Minister interrupting Members during their speech. The issue we are debating at the moment is very important and it concerns civil liberties and democracy in Greece. Cases have been reported and reported where citizens suddenly find in their car or motorcycle their mobile SIM monitoring devices, even cameras in the windshield of cars that are watching specific citizens, even outside their homes. These phenomena are shocking, especially because they are directed against people who have environmental action or anti-racist action. These phenomena began - the first complaint - to Volos by Mr. Citizens, Professor at the University of Thessaly, vice-president of teaching staff. It was denounced on 9 August, as soon as almost this government and you, Minister. The question is clear: There is a monitoring plan for these movements, for the citizens involved in demonstrations, because another shocking point is that everyone is involved in marching for immigrants and environmental issues, that is, the people who have been watched have even located people putting these devices on the motorcycles or on their cars while they were or were returning from a particular demonstration, a peaceful demonstration. It's a big deal. I wonder if after the complaints you have asked for SADs, and if not, when will you do it? Finally, have you told us that a special plan has been drawn up by the NSA and the police to monitor citizens with social and political action? That's what you know is in breach of Article 5 and Article 7 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 August 2019 it was posted on various national man's communication websites, a deputy professor of the University of Thessaly, a resident of Volos, denounced that it was being watched by a state agency. In particular, it stated that on 15 July 2019, in a regular check submitted by the IX car, its ownership in a workshop in the city of Volos, without naming it, was identified by the official responsible externally and at the bottom by a geolocation device (GPS tracker) with dimensions of 15X3,5 cm, which had three magnets for fixing. The device had no indication of a manufacturer of a company, except a mark and an on-off switch. He also said that the device was placed by a state agency, without specifying it, for the purpose of monitoring it, while he identified his activity as a member of the network for civil and social rights, the organisation of anti-racist festivals in Volos, the practical support for refugees in the region, support for prison seekers' demands, the organisation of anti-fascist events, as well as other actions. Subsequently, the complainant's letter to the Ministry of Civil Protection was submitted by the Magnesia Police Directorate to the Prosecutors of the First Chamber of Volos to inform him and to assess the content. Also in a document, the Magnesia Police Directorate informed the complainant of the results of its actions and its findings. The Prosecutor's Office of the Prosecutors of the Bolos was formed, which was sent to the Volos Security Sub-Director for a preliminary examination under way. In the context of the preliminary examination, the complainant presented a geodetermination device without the SIM card, which was sent to the Department of Digital Confidentialities of the Subcommittee of North Greece for laboratory examination. For another incident that saw the light of publicity, I inform you that a service car with conventional plates had been placed from the Directorate for the Management of Special Violence Crimes, which had not been fitted with sound image recorders, with the crew of two police officers for the prevention of an act prevention service at 23.00 hours of 18-11-2019 to 7.00" of 19-11-2019 in areas of the wider center of Athens. On 23.45', 18-11-2019, the above mentioned service car parked on the Arachobis Street, 51, so that the police would go pedestrians to the adjacent Architectures Square for patrol execution. At 24.00 the police found that the service vehicle had been surrounded by about thirty people who were curiosing and hitting it, causing perimeter damage, probably because they were aware of the status of the police. In order to avoid further tension and possible attack on the two police officers from the gathered individuals, a platoon of the Order's Rehabilitation Subordinate, which provided the necessary assistance for safe entry of the two police officers into the car and their departure from the place to continue the performance of their service. For this case, the Violence Management Directorate is conducting a preliminary investigation, in accordance with Article 245(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is in progress. It should be noted that it is not permitted to notify in any way during the preliminary investigation of any evidence collected, due to the principle of secrecy, which governs the specific stage of the criminal proceedings. At the same time, a sworn administrative examination has been ordered to investigate the incident, to account for the damage caused to the service car and to investigate any disciplinary responsibilities of the police involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u81	Here, Mr President, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, all these phenomena are worried about us, because they are coming over something else of your own governance before, under the government of Samaras, when all over the city of Ierissos, they were found recording all the conversations, intercepting her talks. Then, more than two hundred people, grandmothers, grandparents, young people were found accused of setting up a criminal organization with funny, impotent accusations, with a code name for someone called "Dimitris" and such things. All cases fell in court. However, the cost to the citizens was very important with hostage for too many years. So these practices have been repeated. And what we are saying - and it seems to us - is that these phenomena appear again on 9 August - is the first complaint - as you took over. Some people seem to have taken an order as soon as you took over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u83	The incident you referred to is on July 15th, when we were right - we hadn't taken care of it yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u84	But you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u85	Please don't have a dialogue. Minister, you will answer your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u86	As far as the appliances are concerned, a citizen - the wife of a member of the Political Secretariat of Mera25 brought us such a device that had entered his own motorcycle. Because I can't testify to her in the Minutes, I'm filing her photos. [[At this point the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The question is clear: Do you know of these phenomena or do you not know them? There are two possibilities: Either you know them and you hide them or a piece of police has escaped your control. Honestly, I wish the first thing. But the situation is very serious and it is escalating. We invite you immediately to take action. In my previous complaints about the monitoring of civilians, who are taking part in demonstrations against the mining movement in Yannina, you told me that we have a bias against the police and that there are no police violence phenomena, so that your Government will come to set up a committee to deal with police violence shortly. Let us look at things the way they are and deal with them before our democracy is compromised.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u87	You have the floor, Minister, for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u88	Listening to the honourable Member asking whether the Security and the National Intelligence Service have drawn up an operational project to monitor citizens participating in demonstrations, I thought, for the moment, that I was in another century, far away from today. I want to be clear. It is incomprehensible to blame, even as a question, for monitoring citizens from the police on the basis of their political action, since of course as political action we mean within the parliamentary framework and the legality of functionality. It is really difficult to understand how the police are willing to move outside the democratic framework, and every action should be followed by a sworn administrative examination. It is also rather strange few days before the sad anniversary of Alexander Gregopoulou's murder, but also few days after the anarchist's ultimatums that, on the occasion of this anniversary, there will be a dead policeman, to be in Parliament and to be called upon to answer whether there is an organised plan for the monitoring of citizens participating in the demonstrations. Finally, Mr Chrysochoidis, I would like to remind you that yesterday we had the abuse and serious injury of Mr Anastassakou's close associate. The effort we make to ensure order and security of citizens is neither simple nor without sacrifice. Police have dead and wounded by the war against crime, terrorism and marginalized extremism. I invite you to respect this reality and not be influenced by various beliefs or speculations of people who confuse their ideas with everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u89	Before entering the next timely question, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-two students and students and three educational sessions since the 13th General Lyceum of Peristeri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me explain to you, so that you do not wonder where the House does not have much people today, that we have the procedure of parliamentary control, as your teachers will tell you. Members are asked from all the parties to the relevant ministers on current issues. That is why, as a general rule, Members who are asking the Minister responsible are following the House and the Minister responsible is answering. At the moment Members are asking questions to Mr Eleftherios Economou, the State Secretary for Citizen Protection, who answers them. She has three questions today, she answered the first and we move on to the second. Series now has the fourth question number 253/26-11-2019 on second-round question by MP B2' Western Athens area of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Illegal and absurd persecutions to philosophers who feed strays". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to welcome the kids from the dove to my district. Mr. Secretary, you have not answered the previous question, but I will not insist. I think you received the message and I hope you take action, regardless of whether you did not respond. What I would like to point out with the second question goes on in fact with the first, not in the same seriousness, but concerns problems in the functioning of the police force. We have people looking after strays. They are people throughout Greece who give food and water to stray animals, and yet these people, who are doing so by their misery in a difficult economic situation for the country, seem to have been persecuted by police officers. We had two cases in Myrina of Lemnos and Thermi of Thessaloniki, where in people were certified by the police of six thousand euros for Lemnos and a thousand eight hundred euros for Thessaloniki. They are exhaustive fines, using Law 4039/2012, which aims to protect animals and not to suppress the philosophers and people who protect them anyway. After letters from the Panhellenic Philozootic Environmental Federation and the Veterinary Agency of Thessaloniki, these fines were cancelled, but then we see that the police officer who had put the fine to the lady in Myrina, Lemnos, again complained that the lady was feeding strays without having issued a health book about them and asked for money again. The economic exhaustion of these people, which are already difficult, is very important. We want to ask you if you started ETS on these issues, if the seminars that had been held in 2015 and 2017 will finally continue for the training of police officers in the protection of animals and what you will do to stop these phenomena of circumvention of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u91	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u92	On August 17, 2019, at 10.05; police officers at the Police Department of Thermi, at the request of the telephone centre of the Direct Action Directorate of Thessaloniki, went to the municipal community of New Rysi in order to determine the presence of pet-cats - within the courtyard of a particular house. When they arrived they found in a fenced property yard, a residential woman, who was present at the site, the existence of three newborn kits. As these animals were found in the property of the above-mentioned policemen, they reasonably concluded that they were their owner. Subsequently, the police carried out a statutory check and found an infringement of the provisions of Article 5(1)(a) of Law 4039/2012, lack of electronic labelling and registration of animals, and lack of health books. They all brought administrative penalties under Article 21 of the same law and proceeded to the confirmation of infringements. Finally, this country stated that the animals are not its property, but are stray, but that it was not demonstrated by the real facts, since the animals were found to reside within the open area of its ownership. On 15 September 2019, police officers of the Police Department of Thermis went back to the above-mentioned house in order to provide the national act with an administrative fine attestation, a copy of which was sent to the Thessaloniki Veterinary Office for the enforcement of the fine, and found that those animals were again in the courtyard of its home and remained without electronic marking and health booklets. It should be noted that in the statement of reasons for annulment of the fine, the Thessaloniki Veterinary Office states that the presence of the animals in question outside the national territory, which is essentially contrary to the on-the-spot and self-personal finding and attestation of the latter by the police, the presence of the national concerned, is an indication of the presence of the animals in question. The Thessaloniki Police Directorate considered that this incident did not give rise to a disciplinary misconduct of the police involved, as their actions were legal within the limits of their duty, and thus put the case in the disciplinary file. With regard to the incident in the area of the Lesvos Police Directorate, you are aware that on 7-8-2019 in the context of an investigation of complaints submitted to the Police Department of Myrna regarding the presence of a large number of pet-cats - a fenced houseyard in Myrina Limnos, the ownership of a domestic woman, a police officer of the department concerned went to this house, where he found ten pet-cat animals. At the same time, within the intact space of the house, there was a plastic receptacle with water in order to have access to these animals. The police officer who carried out the inspection found that the animals in question had no electronic marking, no health records, in breach of Law 4039/12, and the planned administrative fine was imposed. The above-mentioned country has objected to the Department of Agricultural Economy and Veterinary North Aegean, at the Veterinary Department of Lemnos, and this department has accepted its objections and decided to delete and not validate this fine, although its supervisor has assured the police of the correctness of the actions taken by the police, since the courtyard is considered to be part of the house. In addition to the above-mentioned administrative fines, the national court has brought an action for failure to fulfil obligations under Article 5(1)(c) in conjunction with Article 20 of Law 4039/12. Police personnel must show particular importance, in dealing with such incidents, for the immediate investigation and a thorough examination of all relevant cases in cooperation with the relevant bodies. Therefore, in both cases I would like to inform you that the police officers have acted on the basis of what they have found, applied the law and then, of course, the ones - who have confirmed the fines - have brought the necessary actions. The competent authorities examined these actions were considered to have had to annul the fines and this is the case. In any case, however, there are specific directives and orders regarding the application of legislation. The necessary staff awareness of the protection of animals is demonstrated, and there are a number of police actions in this direction that I will tell you in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u93	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, since you like to read texts, I will read you from the Panhellenic Philosophy and Environmental Federation its press release. The Panhellenic Philozootic and Environmental Federation wonders: “Why does ELAS fail to show due sensitivity to the innumerable cases of abuse and killing of animals persecuted automatically? How many self-determinations have the organs of the Myrna Police Department for animal abuse been filed?" Minister, I would like in writing the text you said from the veterinary service. All those who have ever stayed in homes with a yard know that a cat can go to the yard and stay in thousands of other homes. It's funny what you're describing. But let us have this text of the veterinary service written in response to the police bodies. These illegal fines put people in stress and financial costs, because these people appealed to lawyers at a time of financial difficulty. Simple citizens, as the Panhellenic Philozootic Environmental Federation says, who are concerned with feeding and watering poor animals, are being framed and punished as having different behaviour. She asks you in her announcement why you have not answered her two letters on the incident and you have not taken a public position. I think it's your first public position on the matter. What sanctions were there for these police officers? You told us there would be no one, because you think everything went well. I conclude with one final question to you: What is the leadership of ELAS still waiting for in order to issue a precise circular for the proper application of the law on dominance and stray pet animals in order to prevent such incidents leading to unjustly suffering for citizens? That's really my question. I would also like to repeat the other question: will you continue the special seminars that were launched in 2015 and 2017 to police officers and police bodies, so that there can be training for the protection of animals in accordance with the laws and international provisions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u95	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u96	Mr Papoutsis, I would like to assure you that the Greek Police in terms of public services are at the forefront of the various pro-zonal activities. We are in very close cooperation with the various pro-zootic organisations operating in our country and together we have organised a series of conferences - conferences aimed at raising the awareness of police personnel, on these issues, and we have included special lessons in police schools. The students of the Police Academy are taught cognitive subjects relating to animal protection legislation, in courses carried out by qualified police personnel, as well as in lectures both at the level of education and retraining of police personnel. In this way, I would like to assure you that the Greek police officers who are trained and re-trained at the police colleges receive full and substantial training in relation to existing animal legislation and its proper implementation. I would like to assure you once again that we are in a good cooperation with pro-zootic organisations, we have taken too many initiatives in the past in this direction, and several are in progress, as well as in organising joint conferences, both on animal abuse and on a number of other initiatives. Don't have any doubts about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too. The tenth question will be discussed at number 229/18-11-2019 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Elisabeth Scoofa to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Measures for the protection and safety of the lives of travellers in Olympus". Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u98	Minister, who doesn't know Olympus, not only in Greece, but worldwide? We'd say, after Parthenon, it's the second world-famous monument. Olympus has been declared a National Park in 1938. UNESCO has been declared a preserved global biosphere ecosystem and has been listed on the list of the European network of "NATURA 2000" as the "Special Protection Zone". After that, it is reasonable that hundreds of thousands of visitors come to Olympus every year. However, there are still not all the infrastructure and the necessary staff to safeguard and protect both the National Park and visitors, which is why accidents and accidents occur. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of March 2018, in the Antiregion of Pierre, under the responsibility of the then Secretary-General of Civil Protection Mr Kapaki, a wide meeting was held with all the relevant bodies, who tabled concrete proposals for the preservation of Olympus and the measures to protect tourists, but since then we have not seen something specific and tangible as Pierres. Another problem I ask in my question is that the competent fire services responsible for the rescue of tours, namely the Litochori and Katerini Fire Service, despite the superhuman efforts and the well-trained personnel, lack a basic logistic infrastructure. I therefore ask you what immediate measures are being taken by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection to protect the human life of travellers? Also, if there is and who is the medium-term planning of your Government to protect human life in Olympus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u99	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u100	I will be very brief, Mr President. As you mentioned in your question, who doesn't know Olympus. We all have a duty to organise the system of prevention and early intervention when various visitors to Olympus are in a difficult situation or when an accident occurs. There must be timely and substantial intervention by the services of the Greek state in order to truly maintain the name that our country is entitled to as a history and to ensure that it is a destination of many visitors. You are well aware of the efforts made by the Fire Service, but also other co-responsible services over time, I would say, in this direction. Training is continuous, as traineeships are held continuously. Efforts are being made in the context of the country's economic potential to have the best possible equipment for rescuing. The personnel of the Fire Service, when they are called to intervene, are well aware that they have done so with superhuman efforts and that they often exceed human limits. We have a high level of service supply that is recognised internationally. We are continuing to do so. What we found improves it. We hope that in the next few years, with the reorganisation made by Civil Protection, we will be able to offer even better services and really ensure the tour to Olympus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u101	Thank you. Mrs. Skoufa has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u102	Minister, I am pleased that you too recognise the importance of Olympus, which is of great importance with the development of alternative forms of tourism. I do not hide from you that I have visited the Litochori Fire Service personally and, if I may say so, I am ashamed of the fact that the men and women firefighters of the service, in fact, are begging for some donation from a private body in terms of logistic equipment. So take it into account, in your ministry's programming, please, very seriously. Another picture - which happened and exists - in Olympus, and which unfortunately makes us feel ashamed, for example, is the transfer of body bodies with mules. We understand the difficult part of the area. But perhaps it should be taken seriously into account that the proposal itself should be made available more frequently, and, where necessary, a specific helicopter in order to implement the aeronautic rescue. The most frequent disposal of helicopters and their shortening of procedures from the moment they submit a request for a helicopter up to their take-off will facilitate the same firefighters who work physically in order to travel miles up the highest mountain of Greece. With the helicopter, much more necessary materials would be transferred. In this direction, the proposal of the fire extinguisher itself is the helicopter of the air means service, which parks at Thessaloniki airport during the summer months and is available to the EAW, and is also available in cases required by the airport in Olympus. However, I would also like to say that, unfortunately, in the infrastructures themselves, there is still no timely implementation of the necessary planning. What do I mean? Emergency shelters, for example, are not staffed, are not equipped with rescue equipment. Also, it would be advisable to get a weekly weather report, preferably every Thursday, posted online and have access to it by all the climbers in Olympus. Also, a third proposal from the operators themselves is for the browsers themselves to rent, if necessary, specific tracking devices, so that the research and rescue work is done in a shorter time. There are too many proposals. I'm telling you, there was a special meeting in early March 2018. All you have to do - if you allow me to suggest - are these proposals to be implemented and put into a specific timetable, if necessary with a visit to France or Switzerland or to other countries that have winter mountain tourism and already have good practices. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u103	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u104	I would like to assure you that all the proposals, which are submitted by service and by institutions, are examined, assessed and integrated into an implementation framework, depending on the extent to which they are assessed by service. I would therefore ask that the operational part be left out of this Chamber. It is for others to consider it in more detail. Let's not get into these issues. I think they are matters for which we all have the same purpose, to really preserve this natural heritage of Olympus. The question of protecting human life concerns us all the same. As far as the previous ones are concerned, I do not think you should have the requirement in the few months when we are government to cover all these deficits which exist from the past. But I do not think there is any reason to confront these issues, which actually unite us and do not separate us. But what I would like to say to you is that, as far as civil protection is concerned, it is in full reorganization. The government wants to create a modern civil protection service that can meet both the present and the future needs that will arise. We see the phenomena of climate change and a number of other events, which can affect us. And indeed, we all recognise that our country in terms of civil protection does not have that system which we would all like to see. In this respect, civil protection is modernising and creating structures. In the next few weeks you will have the opportunity to see them. The Fire Force is being modernised very soon - I would also like to believe in this direction - in a very systematic way our country will have a modern civil protection system which, of course, will also be part of the rescue and any other activities and operations that are necessary for Olympus as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Madam President and Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one student and two students and two teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Papagos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I'd like to tell you guys this. Do not see now that there are a few colleagues in this House. Today we have no legislative work. The legislative work comes too many MPs, especially when the House meets for a specific bill. When we have a plenary, they are all Members here. Today there is a procedure called parliamentary scrutiny, namely time-consuming issues, which concern society in general, the country or local issues in various regions of the country, the Members concerned are present and the Ministers responsible to whom the questions are addressed are addressed. This is called parliamentary scrutiny, so that it does not bother you that there are only many Members here today. We continue with our second question with No 245/25-11-2019 on the first cycle of the Parliamentary Corfu Coalition of the Radical Left, Alexandros - Christou Aylonitis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The need to place a permanent workshop to restore PPC's losses on the island of Ottoon". This question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis. Here, Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, an incentive to ask you this timely question is the fact that in the last few days, as you know, there have been flooding phenomena in Corfu. Of course, he did not have a special problem with regard to the island, but at the same time he recalled the problems that the electricity network has in the Diapondin Islands region and especially the Ottomans. Consider that every time there is a bad weather, even small-sized ones, the electricity network of the Mounts is damaged, and, if there is a sea turbulence, the transportation of a workshop from Corfu to the Ottomans is difficult and time-consuming. Do not forget that particular geopolitical and national reasons require special protection for the Diapondian islands, so that even old people remain in the winter months, but in any case live to be tolerated. In 2013 there was ceased to be aeronaut, that is, the technician who intervened directly in PPC's columns to correct damage. You realize that they are six and seven days on the island - and especially some areas of this island - non-electrical. You realize the problem faced by elderly people. I would therefore ask you to take these actions so that an aeronaut can be permanently placed there, who, not only will serve such needs on the island of the Ottoons, but have ensured that they also have a means of transport, so that if incidents occur in the other two islands, in Ereikosa and Mathraki, he can intervene immediately, so that he can repair the damage. The rest I'll tell you right after, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u107	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, Mr Colleagues, I am of course not familiar with the issue of the Ottomans. I have asked you because of the statement you have made and what appears to be, unfortunately, to be the case. The Othon is a small island in the Ionian Sea in the northwest of Corfu, an atrocious island with few inhabitants, which contribute as you say, Mr Aylonite, to not becoming a deserted rock island. The Ottoons, in fact, were struck by the recent bad weather that hit the electricity grid, and as a result, what is stated in your question is being observed. I contacted the DEDDIE, the electricity distribution network manager for the country, who has responsibility for these issues and informed me that all users' access to the network has been restored since 15 November and in the previous days the operation of the electricity network of the island has been restored. They also informed me of the overall problem with regard to the electricity grid in the Ottoon. Due to the geographical location of the island, as I am told, this is affected during the winter months by severe weather phenomena, which often result in damage to the distribution network and interruption of electricity. The CEDEFOP shall make every effort to prevent such damage, as well as to remedy them in a timely manner when it occurs. In previous years, the DEDDIE carried out work to upgrade the distribution network, including replacements of columns, insulators, cables, medium voltage replacements in the area of Faros, transfer of the substation to improve its protection and exploitation. Regular inspections and targeted maintenance and improvements shall be carried out on the island’s network where necessary. As far as it does not deal with the damage and their treatment, the TEDDAH ensures the timely transfer of technical personnel from the unit of Corfu to solve the problems as soon as possible and with the smallest possible consequences on the island and its inhabitants. With regard to the permanent presence of technical personnel, airliners, which you ask in your question, the competent services of the DEDEN shall allocate the staff on the basis of the needs presented and the state of the network in each area, and only on the basis of better customer service. With the data so far, assessing, on the one hand, the state of the network and, on the other hand, the staff available, the services of the TEDO have, according to the information they have given me, decided that the needs of the island of Ottoon can be met by the group of Corfu, on the other hand, through regular audits and maintenance visits, as well as exceptional visits to remedy the problems. This is the estimate made by the services of the DEDDIE. In any case, your question raises the question. I have, as it is obvious, forwarded the text of your question to the TEN and it is an opportunity to think about your question and the further questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u110	Mr Minister, because I have been waiting for this answer from the HR, I will tell you the following characteristics. In 2019 there were thirty-five house damages and seventeen network damages. The average repair from a workshop, coming from Corfu, was ten to fifteen days for houses and seven days for damage to the network. You are aware that I did not generalise the question and I have identified the whole problem, because all the people in the region think that the presence of this technique in there is solving problems immediately. The Ottoon is the most remote overseas island from Corfu. A sea turbulence on an open sea prevent any ship from approaching it. I would therefore ask you, in particular, to do this, to press, so that we can resolve the problem. You have recognized my arguments too in relation to the national importance of the Diapondent Islands. And, as I told you, this aeronaut will serve the other islands. I would like an opportunity, Minister, to meet you - I am sure you know - that large areas of Corfu are in an emergency. This showed at the same time the huge problem that the whole of Corfu network has in relation to its capacity, its constant damage, its oldness, etc. And northern Corfu and southern Corfu, not to mention the center, are facing serious holiday problems. I would like to inform you that, as a matter of fact, there will be an out-of-court corporation - because I have the copy - from the Association of Corfu Radio Station owners. I'm sorry to leave the subject a little bit, but give it a chance. You realise that all the radio stations of Corfu, which are doing important work, but also television stations, have installed their facilities, antennas, in the mountain of the Almighty. They have continuous holidays, three to four times a month, thus creating chain effects for both sponsors and advertisers, but also informing the people of Corfu from the frequencies of radio and television. I would therefore ask you, in particular, to look at the issue of Corfu as a whole, so that in a good cooperation with your Ministry with the DEDDIE and PPC as a whole, we can tackle the whole problem of Corfu, with particular emphasis, as we said at the Ottomans, but also, above all, on the issues of the installation of radio stations in the term Pantorora.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u111	Here, Minister, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Aylonite, I have no reason to question what you say about the Ottomans for how many days it takes to fix the lesions. I put the matter to the DATA, as I said. All I can tell you at this stage is that I will discuss it again with the services of the UN, see if this can be dealt with in a better way. Because, indeed, we here in the Greek Parliament can discuss with our comfort, but the Ottoon resident who is experiencing a series of difficult situations, resulting from isolation, expects us to better deal with them. And I'm not just talking from the government's side, but from the political system as a whole. So your question, as I have already pointed out, is an opportunity of reflection, to see with the available means what best we can do. I also note all the concerns you have raised about Corfu. Of course, we are a relatively new government and problems cannot be tackled from one moment to the next. But what you put on was no partisan color. It reflects your interest in your constituency. I'm not ready at this time to give you a more detailed answer. My answer is that I write down what you're telling me. We will study them and see how they can be dealt with in the best way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u113	I thank the Minister and my colleague. We were informed that the sixth question by No 225/18-11-2019 of the second question by MP Chania of the New Democracy, Manosou Voloudakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Evaluation of SMPs and ANFAs to finance public investment', after consultation of the Minister and the MP, will not be discussed. It is therefore deleted. Now we will discuss the third question by number 235/19-11-2019 of the first cycle of the Member of the Larissa Movement of Change Mr.Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister for Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The bureaucratic claws, an obstacle to the brown production of Kissavos". And this question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I come here today with a question before you to which we have great hopes in the Larissa Prefecture, and we want the Minister to resolve the matter today and now. Why, of course, does the matter have political responsibility, of course, since 2016, because the relevant legislation has been signed, as you know very well, to deal with the issue of brown production in Kissavos, but then did not do that. We come with an issue that is of particular importance to our prefecture, because it is very important and multifaceted, since we have a very large part in brown production. In the fifteen thousand tons of chestnut, Larisa has a very important part. But he also has a lot of problems. It is not only the peculiar production that is peculiar, we also have problems with the proprietary regime which is in the air, because this specific proprietary regime has never been definitively resolved. The previous government signed a ministerial decision and demanded a price of between EUR 250 and 300 per acre. Imagine that the illegal trespassers - extortioners pay 80 euros per acre! It was an impunity for the brown producers. On the other hand, he has demanded titles while he knows that it has been a traditional production since 1950, not since 1974, on paper, Minister, and is derived from the documents. Contracts were also required and they were also required to be mostly professional farmers, while everyone knows that brown production is an additional crop, which people are actually doing today, and who are also heterogeneous, because they simply cannot live from it. So please call, Minister, today and now, having settled the legislation - it is up to you - to give a solution at last - which has an absurdity, and I will say in my denial what is irrationality - to a small traditional production, which is mainly related to the Larissa Prefecture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u115	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u116	Mrs Liikanou, the truth is that this question is not the most classic question, which can be tabled, in the sense that it concerns a very specific and specific issue, and I must tell you that I have also been informed. I haven't known how this works since I took over as Minister of the Environment. The exploitation of brown parcels is indeed a traditional and important activity in the Greek countryside. They depend on their basic income on many hundreds of producers and villages in mountain and mountainous areas. In recent years, as I have been informed, chestnut farming has been very dynamic. Domestic production has increased significantly, and export prospects with the Greek chestnuts being - as I have been told - sought on European and international markets. Larissa, in fact, is one of the most productive prefectures. So it makes sense for you. In fact, I was informed by Mr Charakopoulos and Mr Kelles by other written questions, so I realised that we are at the Ministry of the Environment and not at the Ministry of Rural Development, as I thought, who are responsible for the brown crops, given their forest element. In other words, since this tree farming is mainly carried out in public forests and forests, a basic problem has arisen for the brown farmers and their cooperatives. What's that? You described it yourself. Law 4280/2014 provides that the cultivation and exploitation of the brown parcels must be carried out primarily by farmers' professions. Previously, in the 1930 ’ s, concessions were given by ownership to Larissa and other regions. The peculiar property regime has never been dealt with institutionally, so that the problem is extended until now. Many of the holders of the concessions or their heirs had lost their status as a principal farmer for biopolitic reasons because they had to work elsewhere, etc. They continued, however, to cultivate the cultivation of brown parcels and the collection of chestnuts. In addition, two joint ministerial decisions of 2016 and 2017 concerning the planting of chestnuts did not provide a solution to this problem. This has resulted in the procedures for the granting of chestnuts against honour not being able to involve those who hold concessions, but are not primarily farmers' professions, even though they have devoted time, effort and resources to it and to new producers who have succeeded in facing greater problems for years. This is therefore a complex issue with many parameters. It is about supporting primary production and farming activities, which can create income and jobs. However, it has to do with the support of the region and, in particular, mountain regions with incentives for the population to stay there. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I cannot tell you that today we have a ready-to-date solution to this issue, in the sense that we have to consult the Ministry of Agriculture, to look at the provisions of the law on main-professional farmers, as well as the complex ones that have already been mentioned in the past, in the 1930s, forestry legislation. What I can tell you is that we are examining with the Ministry's Directorate-General for Forestry and Forestry Policy all the possibilities for targeted improvements in the institutional framework, which governs the management of brown parcels. The same applies to the forecast price for the concession of the brown parcels, as many of the producers consider that the price is excessive. So, basically this confused, as it turns out, issue is under study. We will see it with the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u117	Mrs Lykoulis has the floor for a second reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much for your interest, Minister. I am very pleased that we agree on the big issues of this issue, namely that we have a special property regime and you have seen what confusion, to say it simply exists. But the confusion that exists, Minister, is not yesterday, as you understood. It has years since it troubles people who are also the region's informal forest guards. The people, that is, who are going through this traditional production from generation to generation, as we have said - and that is why there is the problem with titles and with concessions, and so on - are the people who live in the region and are the people who have taken over this traditional production. This special scheme will have to end with a decision of your own. We should therefore understand the current data and update our positions. I believe that you, Minister, are such a minister who dares and moves forward. That's why we expect you to do it. So dare you say that it is not possible for a main-professional farmer to be the one cultivating chestnuts, because it is not a production that can guarantee him income to live. It's just so simple. That's the one. Secondly, can it be 250 to 350 euros a acre, Minister - also simple things - when the other one goes to take out the land, cultivates it and then two to three years later it goes and pays the price for the illegality it has done and the price to be 80 euros? Is it reasonable for me to have spent fifty years of hand - hand and generation - generation to pay four times what the evacuator beside me pays? That is neither moral nor fair. You'll see that and you'll see it now. I see you're looking at me with understanding and you're gonna do it. They've lost titles. Here, let me tell you one more thing. At times, we often have the demand from people of everyday life, from those who mix sweat with soil and to whom the country owes too much, from the people of the primary sector to know different decisions. For example, a decision was made in 2014 - I know it as a lawman - saying 'Come now say whatever areas you grow' and so on, without diffusing this decision anywhere and without knowing what exactly that means and how many problems it could solve. So, Minister, we have an issue before us which we do not need to do more complicated than the previous ones have done. And here there is political responsibility in the previous government. I dare say that. In 2016 they were going back to the area and greetings to feasts and comments and saying, "We solved the case with the chestnuts". And no problem was solved, but he was attacked. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] It's a glorious field. Look, they're waiting for you and waiting for a lot. The chestnut you said - you yourself discovered - that it is a dynamic product, exportable product and valuable product. Because it is traditional and is done in a specific way in our country. Those who are involved must keep them as an eye daughter. They are not random producers, they are traditional producers. If you don't encourage them, if you don't give them green light and tell them "go, I'm next to you", how will they proceed, Minister? So the Ministry is not just about the great and the great and what we consider to be the everyday life. It's about real politics. Therefore, glorious field for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u120	The conclusion is we have to get the chestnuts out of the fire, but the problems they face. I shall see it with the Ministry of Rural Development, because you, too, realise very well that the issue is related to the law for the main-professional farmers. It requires a comprehensive and coherent policy which does not open holes for misunderstandings and a fundamental change of understanding for the main agricultural professions, which we all agree. There's one peculiarity and I'll see it. I recently visited Olympus. I have not visited Kissavos, who are "the two mountains fighting", but I will come to see the brown production closely because, as I confessed to you, I did not know this and I did not know the export prospects of the chestnut. I understand - to put it to all Members - that this is a matter of importance. I will see it with Mr Vorides and the Directorate-General for Forestry and Forestry. I hope we will soon be able to make more specific announcements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u121	Did you accept the invitation, Minister, and will you have a good time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u122	Of course, Mr President, the Minister accepted the invitation. In fact, he said he'd be here soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, tens of seven students and students and an educational attendant from the 2nd Karystos Evia Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, twelve students and students and three educational attendants from the Interactive European School. The House welcomes you. We're moving on to the next question. The seventh question will be discussed under number 228/18-11-2019 in the context of the second-round question of the Athens General Assembly of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Action plans to deal with noise pollution". Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, good morning. The subject of today's question concerns an important environmental pollutant, and noise is important, because it is something that we do not discuss, although it is generally annoying for people. It is an important environmental pollutant in which most people are exposed. Around 40% of European Union residents are exposed to this significant pollutant, which together with other air pollutants, etc. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. Indeed, it has been established at a pan-European level - and this shows its importance - the last Wednesday of April each year is dedicated to dealing with this issue, to dealing with noise. First of all, I would say that based on the assessment of the European Environment Agency for 2014, one out of four Europeans is exposed to road, rail and town noise. The European Commission's annual report, which came to us in April 2019, refers to the report on our country - the ELLADA project, as it says - and the necessary actions are described in relation to the environment and a special reference is made to Directive 49/2002 of the European Parliament. The 2012 CSR has established indicators 70 dB as maximum permitted road and rail noise levels for the night, 60 dB, while a reduction of up to 5 dB is foreseen based on specific documented studies. In addition, in order to comply with national obligations in the context of the implementation of this Directive and in application of the 2006 CSM, thirteen strategic environmental noise mapping studies were launched and an action plan for urban complexes was drawn up with a base year in 2013. With regard to urban complexes which really fall within the scope of the directive, the strategic noise maps and action plans must be reviewed, as five years have passed since their preparation. In addition, on the basis of the Environmental Statement for Greece 2018, the Directive is pending for many major roads and airports, except ‘Eleftherios Venizelos’, where the strategic noise map was adopted in 2019. Of course, all these revisions to the maps should be carried out on the basis of new assessment methods of Directive 96/2015. What is the design of your Ministry, Minister, to draw up strategic noise maps and action plans for large roads and for the urban complexes of the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Hatzidakis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u126	Mrs Kafantaris, the truth is that the issue of noise pollution, however serious it may be - and it is - is not often raised in public dialogue. For the last four and a half months I've been a Minister, it's the second time I've been discussing it. This was initially done by Mrs Pipilis, who often puts it, especially by noise pollution from bars, and now for the second time because of Mrs Kafantaris' question. This is an issue with important implications, however, for health and everyday life, for the quality of our lives and that is why it requires our attention. The annual review of the implementation of the European Union Environmental Policy for Greece for 2019, to which the topical question refers, shall state the priorities for reducing noise pollution. It also says: How, during the time the report was written, the implementation of the European Environmental Noise Directive had been considerably delayed, on the basis of available data, and how noise mapping for large population centres, major roads and the largest airport in the country had not yet been completed, nor had the noise management action plans been completed. That is what we are talking about on what basis. To speak in terms that are understandable to those who are watching, because the issue has many technical aspects, we are talking here about Directive 49 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2002 on the assessment and management of environmental noise. This directive has introduced an integrated approach for the assessment and management of environmental noise and for the development of actions as a whole at European level. There is a European framework that we must follow. The same directive also provided for the preparation of strategic noise maps and action plans to reduce noise levels for residential areas with more than two hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants, as well as for large railway axes, roads and large airports. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] This directive was incorporated into the Greek legal system in 2006. It provided for the development of strategic noise maps by June 2007 and action plans to manage noise effects by July 2008. It is true that there has been a delay in drawing up the maps and action plans. We arrived in 2012, when a joint ministerial decision was adopted setting maximum permitted levels for road, rail and air noise, based on commonly accepted internationally accepted methods of recording and analysis. On this basis, the Department of Climate Change and Quality Atmosphere of the Ministry of the Environment, with resources from the NSRF 2007-2013, carried out noise mapping studies, total expenditure of around 4 million euros. These studies concerned seventeen urban complexes, the largest Greek towns. These studies have resulted in strategic noise maps with a reference year in 2013 and action plans to reduce noise pollution in these urban complexes. I've been talking four minutes and a half already. I will continue in my dentistry, because I imagine you will have some remarks to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u127	Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u128	We will all agree that this is an important environmental pollutant, which, although disturbs, is not much discussed. We are used to air pollution, other pollutants, but this is not much discussed, although on the basis of the European Union's Green Paper, 20% of Europe's population suffers because of this and 40% are exposed. I think we will all agree that we must move forward. We must complete the things that have begun, because the problem is very great. We know that thirteen strategic surveys on environmental noise mapping have been launched and action plans on urban complexes, with a base year in 2013. With regard to urban complexes falling within the scope of Directive 49/2002, the strategic maps should be reviewed. It's been five years. There is, however, an active call for competition in 2019-2020. That's why we'd like you to tell us as a ministry what your design for the noise maps for urban complexes is. For the major roads now, once again on the basis of the environmental report on Greece, the directive on several major axes is pending. What are the roads within the scope of the directive? And what is the design of your ministry for the strategic noise maps? We know, of course, that the operators are also responsible here. For example, is there any communication, any consultation with the "GENERAL WATER" about this? I'm coming to airports now. Once again on the basis of the report on the state of the environment, the directive is pending. I will complete that only for the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" the strategic noise map was adopted in 2019 with a draft decision of 19-2-2019. Is there any planning for other airports or for the new airport, granted to Kastelli, for example, Crete? Are you following the need to implement these directives? Of course, I'll come to the other issue now. The World Health Organisation proposes significantly lower prices, recommending the limit value for the night at forty decibels, with a view to protecting the public, including vulnerable groups, children, patients, chronic diseases, etc. The limit value for night, fifty-five decibels, which is also recommended by the World Health Organisation, is an intermediate target for countries where the night noise guideline cannot be achieved in the short term and where policy makers adopt a gradual approach. I would like to ask the following question. Is there a planning, in addition to drawing up the maps and all that we have said before, to revise indicators of night and 24 hours, based on the guidelines of the World Health Organisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u129	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u130	It is true that considerable time has elapsed since the drafting of noise maps for the large urban centres in the country and how the directive on large roads is pending. So let us see what is going on today on the issue of noise pollution at the Ministry of the Environment, as I say again that this is a very important issue. The Joint Ministerial Decision of 2006 was amended by another Joint Ministerial Decision of December 2018, signed at the time by Mr Stathakis and Mr Famelos. It stated that it was responsible for drawing up the strategic noise maps of the main road corridors, the main railway corridors and the major airports that the relevant project submits to the competent authority the strategic noise map, with the same effect for the action plans. On this basis, the Directorate for Climate Change and Quality of Atmosphere, by a document sent on 14 October, called on the operators of the major road corridors to draw up strategic noise maps for those parts which had more than three million vehicles each year and action plans to address and manage environmental noise. Which streets are they going to be? It is the Attica Road, Olympia, the Central Peloponnese Motorway, the New Road, the Central Greece Road, the Egnatia Road, the Aegean Road and the Rios-Antiri Bridge. And to be the elements to be used for the noise maps in time, it was defined as the reference year in 2018. In order to update the strategic noise maps of urban centres in the GGERA operational programme, a project has been put in place for that very purpose, with a budget of EUR 3 million and a beneficiary of the Ministry's final NSRP structure that will run it. The purpose of the project is to draw up strategic noise maps for the urban complexes of Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras, Ioannina, Larissa, Volos and Heraklion and to develop relevant action plans to address environmental noise problems, in accordance with the relevant European directives. The draft notice will be placed in public consultation so that the respective tendering procedure can be published by the end of the year. These procedures will run quickly, in the next few years, so that soon we will have the noise maps and the action plans for large urban complexes and major roads. I would just like to add that in the context of the sensitivity that we must all have on the issues of noise pollution in the new Criminal Code, at the initiative of our own government, the penalties imposed on cases of breaches of the limits on noise pollution have been tightened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much. We move on to the next, the fifth, number 254/26-11-2019, second-round question from MP B2 West Athens area of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Installation of a gas measurement mechanism in Heidari'. Mr Arseni, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am delighted once again that you have come to plenary in person. It is very important. The issue concerns Haidari, and it concerns the transport of pollution from Trieste. It has also been recorded and is in the exhibition of the Institute for Environment and Sustainable Development of the National Observatory of Athens in March 2010. The levels of pollution in the Haidari region are high and a detailed monitoring is needed, as they have said. There was indeed a measuring station in 2010, but then it was withdrawn and the data were never announced, what it had measured. There is a very serious nuisance at the moment to the people of Haidari and an appeal has been made to environmental inspectors who have declared incapable of examining transportable pollution due to a lack of staff. And I said that on a personal level. The question is whether you are committed to putting such a measuring station as has been done in other areas. It is very important - I think - because we will see what is finally being transferred to the Lefkanopedio. It is very important to see what the pollution of Triasios arrives in the inhabited areas of the Attica basin. Another question is whether you will also make the previous 2010 figures public, which are unexplainable why they have never been made public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u133	Thank you. The question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u134	Mr Arseni, I have a lot to answer for your question. I'll see what I can tell my prototype and go on, so if you're not satisfied with the first half, patience for the second one! I shall start by saying that air pollution and air quality are obviously a crucial area for the quality of life and the daily lives of citizens. As you know, the country is bound by European Directives 107/2004, 50/2008, 1480/2015, which were incorporated into national legislation and the package of measures on clean air of the European Commission. Now in your question, about the air burden in the region of Haidari, we received information from the Department of Climate Change and Quality Atmosphere of the Ministry of the Environment. What does this briefing say? "The Ministry, with a view to monitoring air quality and applying Community directives, has installed the National Air Pollution Monitoring Network. This network operates on a 24-hour basis, with fixed automatic stations monitoring atmospheric pollutants provided for in the relevant legislation, based on the limit values and target values established. In Attica there are fourteen measuring stations at the sites selected, on the basis of what is provided for in Community legislation and on the basis of a study by the National Technical University of Athens.' Where are these stations? Patisias, Aristotelous, Athena, Agronomic University, Piraeus, Peristeri, Liosia, Thracochedons, Elefsina, Maroussi, Lykovisis, Agia Paraskevi, Nea Smirni, Koropi. The positions of stations cover all types of urban formation, i.e. industrialised areas, high traffic areas, areas with urban and regional backgrounds, on the basis of the population criteria of legislation, and with a view to better assessment and management of air quality. In the Haidari area, it appears that such a monitoring station was not installed on the basis of the above criteria. In 2010, however, the Ministry’s Directorate-General for the Environment of the International Airport of Athens, which provided a mobile air monitoring metering station in the Haidari area for up to one year, had to be established. In collaboration with the Municipality of Haidari, the mobile station, which operated from September 2010 to June 2011, was established for 10 months. Obviously, the monitoring programme did not last for a year, as originally decided, because, as we have heard, cases of vandalism had been recorded. Some people have been bothered by the measuring station. I don't know what to say. The Athens International Airport Environment Agency has requested its removal. In this period, however, about 85%, for example, one year, air pollutants from ordinary urban and industrial areas, which was considered capable of drawing conclusions, have been monitored. Union and national legislation requires time coverage at 14% of the year to be indicative. The agency stated that there is no excess of the limit values and the targets for no pollutants in the area in question and informed the Municipality of Haidari in a document from 2012. I've reached four minutes. I'm going to continue on secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u135	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will also await the continuation of your reply, Minister. It is not a matter of political controversy, it is a matter of practical concern to resolve the issue of the region. There's a strong sense of deterioration. I mean, for someone who moves in the Haidari area, he feels the air burden that he breathes. So the point is to see where that comes from. Clearly, mobilisation began with this confirmation of what the inhabitants of the region felt, from the Institute for Environment and Sustainable Development of the Athens Observatory, in this report of March 2010. It would be important to see the result, in any case, of the 2010 record, so that we can look at it in detail and know what has happened. There's no reason not to be made public. But it is important, if there is possibility for the inhabitants of Heidari and West Athens, beyond Peristeri, to have a record of the pollutants and the entrance gate of the pollutants, because there is a basic gateway to the pollutants. It makes sense. A machine with which one would record the pollutants would put it from where they can enter also to see exactly the air quality entering. It will be important if you can make such a decision. You were, you have been honoured for many years from the area by voting, and you have been elected MP many times. I think that is a fair request which you too have embraced, I imagine in the past and must be satisfied. So, without any political controversy, we can find a solution. To resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u137	Minister, you have the floor for three to four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, Mr Arsenis, I see it with caution, not least because it is an area with all the characteristics you mentioned and because it was - I do not hide it - and my constituency for many years. Well, let me tell you how the continuity of this thing is in this case with the Heidari pollution measurement station. In 2012 - after closing the matter in the way I told you with the first station in 2010 - there was a new request from the Municipality of Haidari for measurements. The address replied that the request for a station would be examined after the completion of the project for the mapping and imaging of air pollution in Greece. This was a project that was integrated into the NSRF at the time and was completed in 2015. From the measurements made for the Municipality of Haidario, as the services say, there were no excesses of limit values for gaseous pollutants, suspended particles and heavy metals. The detailed results of the project are available for any interested person on the Ministry's website, so you can check them yourself. The results of the mapping did not show the need to relocate the fourteen existing measuring stations that are in the Lefkanopedia, which I mentioned earlier, nor to place new ones. The limit values and targets for the Municipality of Haidario were also not exceeded. In particular, in order to assess the air quality of the region of Western Attica, which is indeed affected by the Thriasian Field and the activity there, the Elefsina, Peristeri and Liosia metering stations, which in 2015, were fully upgraded. Overall the issue of air quality is, of course, particularly important for the Ministry of the Environment. The competent authorities take all necessary measurements and energy, on the basis of what is envisaged by the legislation, with particular emphasis, obviously, on areas such as Western Athens, which are close to industrial areas, which affect the urban and regional environment. That's what the evidence says. This information is publicly available. This placement has taken place in the fourteen measuring stations, three of which are in West Athens. My knowledge does not allow me to question all these technical elements. These measurements have been made by experts, by scholars, by engineers, by people who have knowledge and experience in this matter. I understand your sensitivity. This is, however, the result of measurements. I would like to tell you in any case that I am at your disposal, since you are questioning the evidence. We are always at the disposal of everyone to discuss issues of environmental concern.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's go to the next question with the same protagonists. The ninth question will be discussed under number 233/19-11-2019 by MP B2 West Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Health landfill area Kokkolaka in an active seismic breach in Skouria". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much. I just want to say, Minister, that there is an issue with the placement of stations. And in Piraeus, we see, the placement of the measurement stations is in the central square and not the port and no pollutant count, while we know there are many pollutants. So there's a matter of spatial locations. This is also a very important issue. It concerns the immediate danger to the lives of the people of North-East Halkidiki. First of all, a history: In October 2000 the Great Virgin was drowned in practice by a large eighteen - inch rainfall over an hour and fell about nine hundred thousand cubic meters of water in the stream of Kokkinolaka. At the moment in the same stream there have been two dams, a small one to stop the flow - it is a river of Kokkinolakas, it has a continuous flow - and a larger one comprising about twenty thousand tonnes of hazardous toxic waste, with the hazardous waste of the "ELELENIKIKI CHRYS". This has been licensed by Mr. Stathakis in 2017. A similar phenomenon will lead to a collapse of this dam, as scientists tell us. If the phenomenon of 2000 is repeated - and you know that, with climate change, most likely to be repeated even worse - we will have the collapse of this stream and hundreds of thousands of tons of toxic waste will drown the village of the Army, the Great Panagia, will go to the bay of Ierissos and will reach the sea, one of Greece's largest fishing fields. At the same time Mr Papazachos tells us that an earthquake like that of 7,3 Richter that had hit the city of Ierissos in '32 and hit it in practice will lead to a collapse of this stream, so again this phenomenon poses a risk to human lives and the pollution of the sea. The question is, if you intend to proceed to a study of seismic activity and if you commit to discontinue the operation of the HYTEA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, too. The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Constantine Hatzidakis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u142	Mr Arsenis, because this issue has many technical aspects before I would like to remind you of the Government's position on the investment of Halkidiki in Halkidiki, which is also the timely question. We support any investment that can have a significant positive impact on growth and job creation, provided that at the same time this investment fully respects environmental legislation, and that of course also concerns strategic investments. We have also made it clear in discussions with the Greek FRYS that we are of course interested in jobs. Of course we are interested in the price that the public will receive from mining, but we are also interested in the environmental footprint of this investment. In your timely question, Mr Arsenis, you refer to the Hazardous Wastes Animal Burial Area - HYTEA, as these areas are called - in the Redolaka site. As I was informed by the Directorate-General for Minerals of First Materials, this is a new integrated and protected area for the dry deposition of mineral waste in the Kokkinolaka stream basin. The construction of the site by the Hellenic FRYS is provided for in a CYC which approves the environmental conditions of 26-7-2011, for the mining and metallurgical installations of the Kassandra mines and for the removal, cleaning and restoration of the deposition area. The construction of the site has been environmentally approved with the project's GDP, environmental conditions and technically by decision of 2013, the then State Secretary for Environment and Energy. I would like to point out here that, on the basis of the information I have, the disposal of waste, in accordance with what is stated in the decision approving the environmental conditions, is manufactured with the HYTEA standards in order to ensure an extremely increased level of environmental and health protection for the inhabitants of the region. It was designed to meet the deposition needs of the younger and older waste from the activities of the Black Stone and Olympiad Mines, and more specifically, the reception of the waste of the mines and the materials that will be produced from the removal, cleaning and restoration operations that cannot be reused, recycled or exploited commercially. In other words, this is a necessary intervention in the wider mining area, with a view to ensuring the protection of the environment and the limitation of possible health risks. Because if there were no special organized space in order to transport the waste produced by mining and other operations there, the burden would obviously be greater. The Greek FRYSOS S.A. was even obliged to prepare a new geotechnical study, which it submitted to the relevant departments in December 2015, updating the technical characteristics of the project. In other words, according to the official decisions of the permit services, the dry deposition technique used in this site protects the natural environment and the health of residents in full.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fourteen students and students and two educational attendants from the Rodolivos Serres School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Arseni, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are not talking about gold mining here. I know we disagree, we have radically opposite positions. We are discussing a technical issue in which we can find a common place. When the environmental conditions of a project are adopted and data are discovered later showing a risk to the community as a whole, they may be re-examined to a debate, in particular when the authorisations for specific projects have been completed. That is what I think is the common principle aimed at serving the public interest. Secondly, the Scientific Audit Committee informed the Ministry of Energy that the "ELLENIKIKI FRYSOS" infringes its serious construction obligations in respect of this project and recommended to the then Minister, Mr Statakis, that in assessing the impact of these infringements on the environmental and safety of HYTEA, academics of unknown prestige should be consulted. That decision was published. It exists in the 'DENMARK'. So one of these people, who is well known to us, is Mr Papazachos and tells us that, apart from the case of a great flooding phenomenon, such as 2000, an earthquake in the Ierissian rift, which has given us, is active, is very serious and great rift, gives great earthquakes and had previously levelled the city of Ierissos - will also lead to a collapse of this dam. It is a great danger for citizens who can be scrutinised by tons of toxic waste. So we really need to look at it, regardless of political controversy again. It is a simple matter of safeguarding the public interest, of protecting the lives of the citizens of the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u145	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u146	Mr Arseni, we all live here. Obviously we know that for a number of issues in the public debate, there are not only different policies, but sometimes different scientific views, but the state must make its decisions. There is parliamentary democracy, there is executive power, legally elected government, public administration, which exercises its functions on the basis of the Constitution and the laws. We are talking here about a number of decisions by governments or public administrations which, however, do not relate to my own - at least - a term of office in the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. I would therefore like to say that these decisions have been taken on the basis of the rules of a Parliamentary Republic. You talked about the seismic activity. A safety study was carried out for waste disposal facilities in accordance with the requirements of a 2009 CSR. This study examines whether the project is vulnerable to risks and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, landslides, strong winds, high rainfall and sharp temperature changes. The possible adverse environmental impacts and the preventive measures applicable to their prevention and restriction are also considered. In the final conclusions of the study, it is noted that the risk of failure or break-up of the project as a result of these phenomena is very low. With regard to the above risks arising from natural disasters and other risks which may arise in the construction and operation of the waste disposal site, some forty specific conditions and restrictions have been included in GDP. It makes no sense to read the GDP text here, which is a multi-page text, where one can revert. In addition, the potential event of the seismic activity has provided for systematic monitoring of the area in which the project takes place by means of a geotechnical and environmental monitoring system. Upon completion of the installation, the company submitted to the Ministry the safety study and the internal emergency plan, approved by a decision of 2018, by the then Minister of State Mr Stathakis. I mean, from SYRIZA. In view of the above, the Pollutant Waste disposal site, which has been fully licensed under the legislation and includes all necessary safety measures. All the risk issues and those mentioned in the current question have been dealt with in detail in the environmental, technical and geotechnical study, which have been examined by the relevant departments of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and approved by scientific and technical competence. At the same time, we are naturally closely and constantly following the investment path in Halkidiki. I would point out again: yes, we are a government that is investment-friendly, but in no case do we want to ignore, on the contrary, the factor of sustainable development, because no growth and no investment will proceed in a damaged environment. Of course, it depends on where one puts the point that combines the two policies. I think we agree on objectives. I think you are too much of a concern. You consider the contrary, that we are prone to investment and that we do not adequately account for what you consider to be the case. In fact, I think we are right, I think we are continuing to pursue a policy in the specific area that, at least for the environment, I mentioned, takes into account the decisions of the SYRIZA itself. We are here, however, to discuss how this is going to be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. The third question with number 1152/8-10-2019 will be discussed with the question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Structure of the Management Bodies of Protected Areas of the NATURA 2000 network". Here you go, Mr. Famele, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to tell you in advance that both questions we are discussing together are written. We should get some things and writings. Perhaps with the oral word we do not have time to analyse everything. So I tell you in advance that we will come back in writing about what we cannot analyse today. It is not an oral question today, it is a written question. But let us solve what we can solve. For institutions, therefore, the protected areas: in February 2018, after too many years our country and a dialogue, which I believe lasted for about fifteen years, ended up in the institutional framework of nature protection and management. Thirty-six agencies were created, some of them previously, some were enlarged, so that we could have an economy of scale, enter more areas, not multiply the administrative burden and the administrative structure. There has been a wide-ranging reform of the management of the natural environment in order to resolve the questions of decisions of the Council of State, condemning decisions of the European Union, warnings. All this had to go into a series and the main one, that our country definitively submitted the revised list of protected areas, which is also a national issue that was completed in December 2017. The law describes all competences, and it is very strict for both workers and administration, because it sets the parameter of local development and local product as a criterion for assessing areas, so that the environment and development can go together. Because that was a request from our society and there are no false contradictions. At the same time, it is possible for all local bodies, producer bodies, selfgovernment, to be represented in the councils and to be involved, as is provided by the United Nations Local Agenda 21, which is the key tool for sustainable development. For the first time, there is funding from the state budget. There wasn't 20 years at least. For the first time, it is planned for workers to be indefinite, for know-how to be available. For the first time, it was also decided and finalised not to dissolve the bodies as envisaged by the previous government, despite the fact that it had put this on ice, it had not gone any further. The operating regulations went ahead, they were all adopted. The budgets went ahead. The administrative boards proceeded. They're still working some old, and they're not all fixed up by our own government. There was an invitation, an evaluation of biographics, and the majority were not designated by the Ministry, but by the local society, so that there would be no question of partyization, if you like, of the administration. The Ministry's programme was published for the eight new agencies of the Ministry, I mean HYMETER. There was a budget for these eight, and we have two major tools implemented: 17.5 million from the ESDP, to make management plans throughout Greece and not to share development and protection, everywhere with a clear context and digital background, and another 17 million for a pioneer LIFE project, which Greece had never taken before, to have the most innovative tools for nature protection. They were not published because of election time, while nineteen regulations had been signed by us, simply because the FEK did not publish because of the election declaration, but all the regulations had been signed. But time has suddenly stopped, Mr. Hatzidakis. Even on these administrative issues - and I conclude, Mr President - you have not again signed the regulations, which were an administrative issue, so that the bodies which have been left behind may have regulations and regulations. So now they're fifty-five, half of them have and the other half don't. The budgets continue - I know this - but it has opened up a debate which concerns us very much. Because in the previous institutional framework, the country had succeeded in getting credit both from the European Commission and from the scientific community and from all environmental movements and from the workplace. We all agreed, without a party identity, to resolve a matter that has so far been a stigma in our country's history. We had no bodies everywhere, we had orphaned areas from institutions, we never had a state budget for the natural environment, natural capital, the heritage of our country, and all of this went into a series. So let me just start with the simples. When will the regulations signed by us be published on FEK, but because of elections have not been published in the FEK? It's just an administrative issue, because we don't have any regulations. I don't think you're in favour of administrative disorder. Secondly, tell us when you will start the procedure that was approved for the four hundred recruitments, which had already been approved, indefinitely, to the bodies, scheduled within the recruitment limitation framework, for people who have been working for years as contractors and who have been on the "air" of the previous governments, because that simply wants approval by the Ministerial Council. They're planning, they're not burdened with the budget, they're enrolled. Let's start with this, and we'll see the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. And this question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Famelle, before I answer the more specifically, I want to focus on the general topic of policy in relation to the management of the agencies. I want myself or the government to question good intentions of the previous government? Oh, no. I would like to question that the interventions made by the 2018 Act were in some respects at least one step forward? Oh, no. I would like to say, however, - and I say this very sincerely - that despite the good intentions and certain moves that have been made, my own assessment is, of the four and five months that I am in the position of the Minister for the Environment, that there is too much to do with regard to the institutions of protected areas and the protected areas themselves. The fact that there is funding from the regular budget, which is indeed there, does not make us all proud and the finance ministers concerned, because we are giving about EUR 8 million a year for some 40% of the country's surface. I also do not think that we may be happy that there are continuity in institutions, but that their staffing has not gone ahead, that they remain operational, that even the boards of directors have not been posted. Nor can it make us proud that one of the first references that this government has to manage at the Court of Justice of the European Union is the issue of biodiversity, which is directly related to the activities of these bodies. And the latter alone shows that there is a problem with management of the agencies. I have personally dealt with these four-and-a-half months, I have personally been to Cornelia, personally to Olympus, and I will continue to do so because I am particularly interested in this, I want to have a personal view before the government takes its decisions. The truth is that we have caused public consultation on this issue. There's already been a first meeting a few days ago at the Ministry of the Environment. We will continue this debate and at some point we will also take the relevant legislative initiative, which is not intended to dismantle positive regulations, nor to marginalise self-government, environmental organisations and civil society. Our initiative aims to upgrade the protection of all these protected areas and to protect the environment more effectively, with all the necessary coordination between the central state, the decentralised administrations, the regions, the municipalities and civil society. And this must be done in terms of management and, of course, taking into account the provisions of Union law, because obviously the country is also accountable to the European Union in terms of its environmental performance. However, our aim is to upgrade the protection of these regions, to provide substantial funding and to have a framework that will push things forward. And if we had any other efficacious pursuits, I think that would already have seemed. All these months, as you know, Mr. Famele, I have not gone through replacing any board of directors, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u151	I didn't do it either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u152	I didn't say you did it. I'm saying I'm working with the people who were placed. We will work with all people who have prestige and administrative competence. This is our direction, because there should be no micro-party perceptions here, there is the natural environment that is the wealth of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Femmelle, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u154	That's an interesting conversation. At some point I told a committee that we were also at your disposal to enter this dialogue. I'm waiting. It was not the good intentions of PPC, where they all came at night. But I'll see it here, Mr. Hatzidakis. But here we are, a little bit sincere. The country was 'in the air' and the government of Samara - Venizelos had decided to dismantle the institutions due to monuments and restrictions. The workers and the bodies would be thirteen if I wasn't mistaken. This was the decision, 'frozen'. The workers were 'in the air', without funding. We entered the Green Fund, we kept them open, we had a very big dialogue with all environmental organisations and we ended up with this law. This law has not easily come to light. There was a dialogue. There are no new paths to read. There are other pursuits, Mr Hatzidakis, and I will say them, I am not ashamed. There has so far been not a single euro in the state budget, and the eight million you have said is that for the first time the state recognises that it has natural capital. He didn't recognize it, Mr. Hatzidakis, so far the state. It now recognises it and pays even the costs of consumables and work. All staff at the moment are positioned, all boards are posted. There is no deficit anywhere. And the main thing is that special environmental studies have already been financed for Greece, so that we have management plans for all of Greece, that we know all about what is allowed and what is not allowed. What was the main issue, however, Mr Hatzidakis, in the functioning of the bodies? Two big political thorns that the right can't stand. I'm sorry about the term, but that's the reality. First one. The local political potential many times - you said it yourself - did not want the bodies within its feet and the district managers asked you not to have any bodies - you have said so, I do not say it - and you are planning to give them to the regions. Second one. Yes, nature needs everyone's involvement. They need co-management models. You have "allergies" in co-management models. Do you think you should privatise the operators too? I want you to tell us. Now, however, specific issues arise, which I asked you. What are you going to do with the missing regulations? Are you a supporter of the administrative ataxia? You have bodies in the Ministry, which, for reasons completely technical, were signed by the Minister, by the previous political leadership, and simply the FEK did not post them because of the elections. Half of them have rules, and half of them don't. First theme. The second issue. What are you going to do with the new eight agencies that covered huge areas? Imagine that the whole Aegean is almost an agency. Don't tell us we made local arrangements. It is a great deal, Mr President, that scale. And we did it on a scale economy, so it wouldn't cost our homeland. Because some others went bankrupt into our homeland, and we found funds empty. However, these eight new bodies - Mr Hatzidakis, I tell you why it is an institutional problem, I do not know if you are aware - because they have not been recognised as general government bodies, you do not have them in the 2020 budget. So when the budget comes in a week, we will ask you - and now is the opportunity - what will you do with these new agencies? Will you, then, have bodies - ‘Stamp’? Aren't they going into general government bodies? The eight new agencies, therefore, and in the rest of Greece, are also the OAED workers. A programme for young scientists was created for one year. You didn't say anything about the three hundred and fifty people working. Can we see the young ones? We have new scientists who help all institutions institutionally, legally and in particular the new ones, who do not create an indefinite right, are contractors. This programme enables us not to close down in December - and I tell you now - to be renewed for a year, not longer. Will you do it? This is also an important question, which concerns, for example, the bodies of the North Aegean - I am a Member of Parliament from the region - and the Cyclades. What are we going to do with these bodies that we made and which are a jewel? It is also a national issue to have in the Aegean Sea, in Greek territorial waters, bodies for Greek biodiversity. I would like to say something about the referral you have referred to. Mr Hatzidakis, I think it was an unmanagement of your Ministry's press office - I said it publicly - to use a process that has been under way for many years for Greece to make a sterile opposition. Where? Opposition. You permanently oppose opposition to opposition. That's what you need to see. It means you don't have enough ideological background or political line. The European Commission, therefore, because our country had no protection status in all regions, has launched a control procedure for Greece. And what did he say? Do bodies, do studies and create management plans. This reference is therefore resolved with what we have started. What we are asking you very simply today, why are we also striving for the reference made by your own imperialities, the PASOK and the New Democracy Governments, will the institutions continue to operate so that we do not get condemned? Will the specific environmental studies, which we have provided, continue to be prepared? Are we going to have presidential decrees and management plans that we started? Will LIFE be implemented, which we won for Greece? Thirty-four million are invested in natural capital and the Commission has said 'bravo' about them. Mr. Hatzidakis, I am simply saying that if what I described is completed, Greece will be in no trouble. And that is based on the application of Law 4519. So if you accomplish what we have prepared, you have nothing to fear. You will be able to collect the'solidarity', because we are not finished with all this work. But if you overthrow it, you will be responsible for the condemnation, but, above all, the biodiversity of Greece will be lost. So answer me, please. Are you going to publish the regulations, publish the contest for those who already work? Will you extend to the new scientists we have without any assurance, even to work in critical areas for the Greek territory? It's crucial. There are no solutions for apprentice magicians, Mr. Hatzidakis. I told you. I don't do politics. Entities are a " jewel" for Greece. The Commission will be in a position to reach agreement if you dismantle them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u155	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, SYRIZA always chooses a public prosecutor's style. I don't get it. And I do not understand that much more because this is a new government, which has recently been elected, which has just given some samples of writing and is judged to be at least a government of a decade. We have not yet brought legislative initiative for operators. We recognise the positive, we highlight the negative, one of which, obviously, is - how we will do it now - the country's reference to biodiversity issues, which is related to the management of bodies. From there on, we intend to bring legislative initiative into consultation with operators, environmental organisations, with self-government, with civil society. This initiative will not be late. In the meantime, we operate with the administrative boards that you have had. What's wrong with that? Why is this mood for haste, hasty and mutilated criticism, while we're still in consultation and you know that the law will be here in the next few years, early next year? I can't understand that thing. In any case, I also draw attention to the fact that, in spite of the good intentions, the operators do not produce the result which we would all like to see. I saw it, for example, in Coronia. The other is the institution, elsewhere the region, elsewhere the municipalities, elsewhere the ministries, elsewhere the decentralised administrations. That's not a management model. How to do it, it's not. Because there are good intentions, there are the principles of management and administration. It is not a model of modern and effective administration. We are not dealing with the whole question simply as a fulfillment of certain obligations with regard to the European Commission. That's not good enough. We want to manage the country's natural wealth in the right way and protect it and highlight it. We therefore want, by using the best European practices, to move forward and adopt an institutional framework that keeps the good of the past and adds new elements. No law is the “plates of Moses”, nor are any laws that I voted for, nor laws that other ministers have passed. Life is evolving, things are evolving. We cannot dogmatically remain in laws that have passed over the past few years. Now, with regard to individual questions raised by Mr Famellos on the implementation of Law 4519/2018, the Economic Services Directorate informs me that the procedures for drawing up the budget of the Management Bodies of 2020 are in progress and that the Management Directorate for the Natural Environment and Biodiversity is handling the procedures for drawing up operational regulations for management bodies. There is also a document from the Directorate-General for Administrative Services. I'll see if I have it with me. Well, there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u157	Will you give it to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u158	I'll send it to you, Mr. Famele. And the day before yesterday, some of your colleagues doubted that I had the regulation of PPC Renewables, which I said was on my phone. I was forced to belong to him yesterday. SYRIZA's intelligence became a boomerang against you. I am not a man who claims - and I am sorry to say to myself - papers which they do not exist. For God's sake! We have ideological differences, but you've known me all these years. We are few in this country and we know each other. Would I refer to documents that do not exist?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u159	I told you another thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u160	The Ministry of Environment and Energy continues within the planned timescales the main task of preparing specific environmental studies, presidential decrees and management plans for all NATURA 2000 sites, making use of the largest amount of funding, LIFE - NATION, to which you referred, which has ever been received by the country. A new task of monitoring and evaluating the conservation status of species and habitat types of Community interest and of mapping the country's marine habitats will be launched in the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question, with the same protagonists, which is the last question to be answered by the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis. It is the 1125/47/10-2019 question and application for the filing of documents by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Application of financial incentives to promote the sorting at source and recycling". Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. As you have seen, Mr Minister, this question has the request for documents. That's what I told you earlier. Some institutional documents need them, and so I would ask you to submit them to us - which are always linked to the question - or I have informed you that we will have a written question again to get the documents, not for any other reason, but for the institutional continuity. On the other point you mentioned, I have also raised today the article providing for recruitment to the RAE. You falsely said it was the same as PPC. And I urge you to apply this regulation which provides for objections to RAE's recruitments, and to PPC. But this is about another debate. As far as recycling is concerned, we are particularly concerned about recycling issues. We have both talked about this in public space, and we have already tabled our views. You know that Europe's basic strategy is to strengthen screening at source and recycling, and they are essential elements of a climate crisis-resistant society. We made a very big reform within the bankruptcy that you left our country in 2015. There was a new national plan, many regional plans. And the same strategy the SYRIZA government put forward, both the 2018 European guidelines for landfill and waste and packaging. In these major reforms, we also had a big problem, to close the dumps. I would remind you that at the end of 2014 the country was sentenced for three hundred and sixty-three infringements in uncontrolled waste disposal sites. Two hundred and sixty spaces have been fined and this is 82% reduced by our government. Let's talk about this. As you have said, we have also received the large LIFE programme. Three LIFE programmes, innovative, left to the Ministry. There has also been a major change in the planning of waste management. Separate collection is an obligation of all LAGs by two laws, Law 4497 and Law 4555. In order to support all this, Mr Hatzidakis, and to put to the question - there was also the Commission's directives, but also with the agreement of all the country's self-government and productive bodies, a major change, which was the change by introducing incentives for screening at source and recycling and anti-motors for burial. And all this has been in a joint ministerial decision - if I am not mistaken - by Mr Haritsis and my own posted in FEK on 15-4-2019 and v. 4609 where the environmental contribution was introduced to strengthen the cyclical economy. All of this has been in line with the guidelines for landfill since 1999, since 2008 for waste management. Economic incentives multiply recycling efficiency and create a new economy, which we need as a country, and I think you agree. Also, transparency is ensured, because the Greek Recycling Agency has undertaken to make a database so that we can finally know who is recycled and how much. Because it is not possible for the systems to say that they are catching the targets and that Greece does not have a return to the European Commission. And you understand that, too, and you have the same issue to deal with. Of course, we are given the opportunity to reduce municipal fees for businesses and citizens. That's what's interesting about the Treasury that's next door. Anyone with a return on recycling will pay less municipal fees. So, since the budgets of the municipalities were drawn up, all of this was designed and predetermined and in agreement with Mr Patulis's statement as President of the CEDEFOP at the conference of a circular economy that we held in Athens with the European Commission and the Economic and Social Committee, so with the agreement of all, the question that we are asking you and the Interior Minister is this: Where is the implementation of this ministerial decision? Will the price policy go ahead with incentives for recycling? Can we assure the citizens that what our government has planned and guaranteed, that is to say, will all of us have municipal fees based on recycling on 1 January 2020? Will you take concrete measures to implement what Europe and our society wanted, to go forward? We are concerned, because we have no information and no documents on this issue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, too. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u164	First of all, what I said about RAE and ASAP was absolutely accurate. I insist now. And you'll make it good for SYRIZA not to choose as a field of confrontation, because there is no party in modern Greek history that has lied more than SYRIZA. In any case, I come to the question. I will of course not begin by saying that recycling and grading at source are at the heart of our waste management policy. Both me and the Prime Minister himself, Mrs Mitsotakis, have talked about this issue many times in recent months. And the Prime Minister's answer to "Prime Minister's Time" cleared the broad lines of our recycling and waste management policy. Greece, Mr Famele, today, and I do not want to say that only your responsibility, but nonetheless your responsibility, and I mean your party, is unrecyclable in recycling with less than 20%, while it continues to lead to the burial of about 80% of its waste. I said it recently when I visited the saint. I still remember the racing letters sent by the Mayor of Egypt last summer, which said that there is a risk of sepsis, in any case, insulting public health, because of the completely inadequate management of waste, but at the same time I see that in the wider area of Achaia and Western Greece, there are still doubts as to whether what has to be done in Yannina, what has been done in Serres, what has been done in Kozani in connection with integrated waste management, that is, new waste treatment plants, which nonetheless follow good European practice. At some point, in our country we must all understand, and the local communities, and the self-government, that we do not need to discover the wheel and that all these dogmas and prejudices harm public health, the economy, the country, our future. This situation we have decided to change, we want to believe with the support of self-government, and to move quickly and decisively so that our country can be among the pioneers in the field of recycling and modern waste management. Obviously, I fully agree with you, we need to start by sorting at the source and at the level of the household. Of course, this is about raising awareness among citizens, but also about providing, Mr Famele, I also agree with appropriate incentives in this direction, which is the issue that you are actually addressing in your timely question. Because this is quite complicated with technical details, Mr President, I ask for your tolerance for a while, otherwise my answer will be incomplete. I will start with the briefing I have received from the relevant departments of the Ministry of the Environment. I was informed by the waste Directorate-General that the provisions of the CRL referred to in the current question of 930/2019 show the procedure for drawing up the pricing regulation for the services provided by the FVO. The TAA I shall be updated on the basis of the provisions of Law 4555/2018, and in particular Articles 239 and 242 thereof. Article 55 of Law 4609/2019 provides that the environmental contribution is to be taken into account when drawing up the tariff regulation. To date, the procedure provided for in Law 4555 for the establishment of an EBRD has not been completed throughout the country. Therefore, they should first be set up by their operators and boards and then the pricing regulations should be drawn up. To date, in the Directorate-General for Waste, the invoicing regulations were submitted by two FATSAs, the company DIFM in western Macedonia with shareholders that you know of - don't tell them - and the company DIAMATH, which is about eastern Macedonia and Thrace. In addition, we have been informed that the ETUC invoicing regulation here in Attica covering the whole region is being completed. In addition, classified access has been granted to the electronic waste register and to other GATS that have applied for in order to obtain the necessary data to complete their pricing regulations in good time. But it is and is a message given in this debate today that the thing must go faster than the FLOS. You know that. You handled the matter. No Minister can make any progress on this matter unless self-government is able to get into the game and if there is no awareness of many different levels.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Famelos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Hatzidakis, obviously neither of us would say that recycling is not a priority. No one would say that our country is a pioneer in recycling. But, in order to be serious, and because I served at the Ministry, and I have an absolute knowledge of the subject and the subject and scientifically, the management of waste does not change with ministerial decisions. It needs to change to the level of self-government. Self-government needs to have a political will from the political leadership. Honourable policy and all this reform of the laws - which you have also mentioned - are proof that there was political will. In order to be able to implement this reform, however, you must demonstrate that you too have the political will, so I ask you the question. I've got some evidence from the first answer. But I want us to be more specific. The introduction of new VAT rates does not depend on the introduction of a new VAT rate policy. You said so just before the end of your reply. There is already access to the register for all LGBTs and the existing pre-reforms, so in the transitional period the price policy can also be applied. Furthermore, the issue with the FLODIMO has ended, unless he regains any rabbit from the hat the Ministry of the Interior, as he did yesterday in his false announcement about "PHILDIMO" Mr Theodorikos. But we'll see, because it's about you too. We want to ensure that there is no forgiveness on the part of the Ministry of Environment and Energy for the LAGs and NSAs who have not made this reform. There are PVCs, Minister, which are not amended at all to 45% to 55%. The VESH of my region, of Central Macedonia, is such as DIAMATH and DIAMARKA, which were regional and remain regional and well-intentioned and have done an honorary policy, from what you say, and the region of central Macedonia should have done as well. Because you have no answers and because I receive from self-government - I tell you officially - that, because you do not insist, we do not make any moves, we would like a statement from you that there is no forgiveness for anyone who does not go ahead with the reform of incentives in recycling. It is good because it also creates a policy, if you like, place all of us, because otherwise all these things we say about the environment are just for communication. I know very well that many initiatives of your Government are not really environmental, they are communication. Let's see if in recycling we can make a difference. We asked this question on 4 October - I didn't ask it today, I told you that she was older - to give me the documents and put pressure on those who have not made any pricing policy. So please put down the rules - those you say you have in your hands, so we are asking for the documents - so that we can also make a statement that it is wrong for us to do so and that this has not been a price policy. Let the citizen know that it is the municipalities that are to blame, if recycling is not done, if incentives are not created, if municipal fees are not reduced. Why is it that it can withstand productive reconstruction if it does not have competitive tools for waste management? There is no room for postponement. It is a question of business and municipalities. I would also like to point out to you - and I would like a little bit of your opinion - that the recycling work, because I saw the interviews, is not four years long. The recycling work is today. I heard you say about a four-year perspective, about developing the coffee bin, about developing recycling. I repeat that the country's obligation is now vis-à-vis the European Commission. It's a mistake you said sometime about 30% in recycling. It's not true. Our country's debt is 50% in recycling and with the European directive of 2018 it is 65%. It's hard to understand. It is almost dreamy or utopian, but someone would have to put this objective into our society, Mr Hatzidakis, and that is why I would say to pay attention to the mistakes made, as recently in an interview with the Secretary-General. This week they corrected the target and made it 50%. The Ministry cannot say anything more behind the European Union. We also need to speak frankly about recycling, Mr Hatzidakis. There are refluxes between the ministries. Honestly, last week we believe that the mother is losing the child in recycling. We need you to tell us if you know the initiative of the Ministry of Interior for the pilot municipalities. Are you also aware of the initiative on reciprocity Recycling Systems and the ECAI alternative management system and the outstandingness of the Recycling Agency? Do you have any other initiative by pilot municipalities with GIZ, the German company announced by Mr Grafakos for the six municipalities of western Athens and another for the Ministry of Interior? Is there a policy on recycling or two policies on recycling? Is this linked to the fact that the ATTs do not have a price policy? Did anyone from another Ministry tell them not to do price policy on the basis of recycling? I tell you this, which concerns us all, Mr President, and I close. The European Commission, with an early warning document from September 2018 that I received - and that is why we proceeded with these measures and not only for that - warns us that additional measures, economic incentives, burial fee, the end of a circular economy are needed. We hit the bell, and that's why we did the circular economy forum, because our country has to move forward. They have also used the incentives of the European Commission and they are all together, they have all agreed together, the Economic and Social Committee, the CEDEFOP. It is not something that the political leadership has only achieved. We want that improvement of the environmental footprint. The municipalities that bury without treatment to feed their own recycling, we do not want the state to take them. There is no profit for the state budget. We want all these resources to come back to recycling, and we want each FESSA to be invoiced differently, because we want in January, with money in the MAGPs, to have all citizens in the local brown bins for organics, because organics are the ones that produce environmental impacts in burial, and organics are the ones that can give us soil for the cyclical economy. I told you yesterday. We also create new resources from biogas in livestock waste. They are just steps that Europe has conquered, at least, and can benefit citizens here. Questions are therefore multiplied, Minister, by the question that was asked at the beginning of October. How do the operational plans proceed to the Recycling Agency? There was a great delay in placing political command or leadership at the Four-month Recycling Organisation. We're not gonna fight about it. We're interested in this. We need to know that everything the citizen gives for recycling gets a place. We need to know that there is a policy on recycling, that municipalities have to do an invoicing policy. I want you to say this again to record, that there is no forgiveness, there is no suspension, that there is no delay, because we know that consumers' money from alternative management systems is no place. You know we've had multiple evictions from police and judicial authorities, not to license and control alternative management systems. But we have not calculated political costs. We would like, Minister, not to go back to pricing policy. It's your responsibility, too, personal, but it's your government. We want you to support this effort of the country, because we now have information from another sector, Minister, that this is not the case. We have heard today that the public is preparing to lose a majority on the ELPE Board of Directors. It's a today's information that just came to me. I'm not putting it in the conversation, but you know we're gonna ask you about it very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u167	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Famelle, don't rush me. That's my advice, if you want, take it into consideration, draw such hasty conclusions. You're a smart man. Hold your patience. To make criticisms, we will give you - alas, every government is giving you the opportunity to criticise - the occasion, by stepping on a more stable ground. First of all, I think you agree that in my character I cannot sit quiet and move forward, as I have moved on with PPC. You blame me for everything you say about PPC, but I went ahead with the implementation of a policy. The same I'm going to get on with the waste. And I tell you, I say it to self-government, I say it to society too. And I don't have any of my patents. I am taking what is happening in the most advanced European countries and I am trying to apply it here and I think that especially in the matter we are discussing, recycling, there are common places in our country. I hope so! Can we do it tomorrow morning? This can only be done in cartoons. It does not change, especially in this matter, Greece. It is not an institutional issue, it is a question of building new units, placing bunkers, changing attitudes, changing a whole philosophy. That can't be tomorrow morning. Should we have ambitious objectives? Of course we have to. Should we respect Community legislation and objectives? Obviously, we have to respect her. But we must not have delusions that Greece can be Denmark, Germany, tomorrow morning, anything in this particular matter. We shall, however, be pushing and pushing too hard to implement the right policies and to make use of the money that we have from the European Union. Do we have any progress all this time? We do. It was dealt with as it was treated, but the issue of Egypt was dealt with. At least the risks of public health have been avoided. It was decided to take the garbage toward the Fokida, with everyone's agreement. The issue of Corfu was addressed. Not definitively, but it was dealt with by transferring the waste to Kosani, which is what the DIFM and the relevant unit is there, in western Macedonia, which will also become more sustainable, but which goes on to plan for Corfu as well. The foundations have been set - it has not yet been addressed - to address the issue of Thessaloniki with the two units, for which there is an initial design by the body and this is a major step, as is other such initiatives. The Secretary-General, Mr. Grafakos, is taking all these months throughout the country to deal with all these issues and there is also the issue of Attica, which we have been working on several occasions with Mr. Patulis, the new regional director, who is a priority for this issue and who has promised that in the coming months, of course, in cooperation with the Regional Council, he will bring the new regional planning, because with responsibilities of SYRIZA, Mrs. Dourou, Attica is the largest black hole in the management of waste, due to the structures, as well as with responsibilities of others of SYRIZA in Corfu, and Corfu was raised last summer throughout the world. Recycling will therefore proceed. The price policy in relation to recycling will go ahead. Where there are delays, we will note them. And by your question you are doing well and raise this matter. I'm talking completely with open papers. You know we met recently at a conference. My impression is that to a large extent, at least in theory, we coincide with the way in which the issue of recycling must be addressed in particular. And the point, of course, is how it will be dealt with in practice. Now you are in a better position, because you can make criticisms, as I have already done. And now I, from my position here, have to prove that the whole thing can go ahead. It is our priority, and with this debate I think we are also sending a message to the whole of society, that we cannot be delayed by recycling, coffee bin for organic products, with the invoicing of recycling, with the incentives that must exist for citizens. We have talked about the introduction at some point of a green card for those who make recycling, as is done in many foreign countries, to have an incentive to do so, when they go and shop in shops, supermarkets and so on. In this direction we will move forward and I am sure that, as the days and months pass, we will have to show all of us, and the central government and self-government, more and more concrete examples of writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much. We are going to the next timely question, which is the first with number 243/25-11-2019, a top-stage question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Confidences on the parking of the two-cycles". Mrs. Pipili, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u170	Minister, first of all I wanted to congratulate publicly on the overwhelming victory of Mayor Trikalon, the Mayor - a symbol of Greece, in the presidency of the CEDEFOP. Of course I do not do it by chance, because the CEDEFOP and it is and must be the close partner on the subject that I asked you the timely question, which is finally to get a class and order on how to park the two-cycles, especially in the center of Athens, but more generally throughout the region. I recently saw news reports from newspapers which announced that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has been oriented towards what other countries and other municipalities have been set up for decades to put up parking places for two-cycles, given that the two-cycles are the most useful and most helpful for traffic, especially in the big cities. However, the total lack of legislation for their parking spaces over time, also the timeless indifference of the organs of the state, the mayors, the anti-democrats, the Municipal Police, the EL.AS. and, above all, the lack of full education in the behaviour of the two-cycle holders have led this positive instrument to move to the greatest scourge, because they park where they like it. I'll see you then. I ask you: Tell me: What exactly are the plans of the Ministry of Transport on this matter? What is the exact timeframe for the two-cycle parking and placement? And tell me if we finally have close cooperation with local and regional authorities so that we can become a European city, with a culture of everyday life.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pipilis. The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Ioannis Kefaloyiannis. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u172	Madam President, I am very aware of how much you are concerned with this issue and I do not hide from you that some of the initiatives that are currently being taken at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport have since begun a debate we had a few months ago. I think that is something in the positive direction. At the moment, I can tell you that we are at a very good point. I have a draft ministerial decision, which will soon also be sent to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, and we are in contact with the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis. It is therefore estimated that this decision will be completed within the next two months. And at this point I would like to tell you exactly what we are thinking about initiatives. First of all, it has been pending for sixteen years since the adoption in 2003 of a joint ministerial decision, which would determine, among other things, the terms and conditions for motorcycle and motorcycle stations, for example. And this decision realizes that it could very easily go ahead and regulate a situation, as you quite rightly said, for the unregulated parking of motorcycles and, more generally, the two cycles, because that is where all the details of the legal operation of these two-cycle parking areas will be. Of course, the services responsible for checking all these necessary documents and issuing the legal certificate will be the transport addresses of the local regions. So I answer your question that there will obviously be close cooperation between the Ministry and local government, whether this is the region or the municipalities. Of course, I would like to remind you that, as far as parking is concerned, the question of Article 34 is concerned - and I am referring in particular to vehicles - and Article 52 of the COK, where, in cooperation with local authorities, there are car parking places in public areas, and that is what must be taken - and this must be emphasized once again - by regional, municipal council decisions, of course, on the road network on their own terms and which is their responsibility. I say all this because, firstly, with the ministerial decision that we will bring - which will regulate the conditions that will apply for the first time under the 2003 Law - there can be parking spaces organised now, which you understand is linked to the protection of private property in an urban environment. That is to say, at the moment - to say this very simple - one cannot establish a parking area very specific, because there is no such common ministerial decision and we know that. And, of course, in cooperation with the municipalities, we will proceed with the other issues. And you know very well, too, that the basic benefits we will have from this arrangement will be that all the details of the legal function of these parking countries will be specified. We also benefit from the two-cycle drivers themselves, because in fact, as you have said quite rightly, they are being forced, as you have said, to stand unruly on the sidewalk, so that there is at present a risk for their own safety, but above all for the safety of both pedestrians and the blockade of any transport. Once again, as a government, what we have said since the beginning is that we will work with local government - and it is indeed a happy time when the elections to the CEDEFOP were held yesterday - and with the new Bureau, precisely so that we can move on with these regulations. We believe that very soon, as I have said, and with this ministerial decision and with the cooperation we have in the CEN, we will also regulate parking in public areas, which - I repeat - are essentially the responsibility of local government, but we will also regulate in an organised way parking, where an investor, a private investor, can move on to this business so that it can now be organised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, too. Here you go, Mrs. Pipili, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u174	On the one hand, I am pleased that you have put a timetable, on the other hand, I am ashamed to be a Greek and I am a European citizen - otherwise - because these issues, for example, are handled in Madrid for decades by the municipality in Barcelona, which, of course, has huge sidewalks, have been solved. In Paris, also the municipality. Mayor of Athens, Kostas Bakoyannis, who has already shown significant examples of European writing in handling municipal problems, makes me more optimistic. Let me add that they park on the sidewalks because they want to go get coffee, as they do - we don't talk about the dirtbags, the kids who share souvlakis that do it and we do all the wrong eyes, sit a minute, share the souvlaki and go - those who go and hang at the luxurious restaurants or in luxurious cafeterias. It's an outspoken, outspoken. They break the pedestrian plates and protest, kill the citizens and then the Municipality of Athens repairs the plates and charge the citizens because there is this anarchy. By the way, I have now remembered the cut-offs, because I have also heard Mr Hatzidakis on the issue of noise pollution that our government has brought again as a crime, which the SYRIZA government had abolished, on motorcycles and cars. Aren't all the Greeks passing through KTEO, all these "cagura" as we call them? I would like you to answer that, of course, in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u175	That's another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u176	It's a very serious question. We're going through the KTEOs and what do KTEOs do to the kangaroo that's been vaporized? If they see it. Just stuff. Well, let's go to another matter. I think you should discuss - with my 20-year experience in the Municipality of Athens - especially with the mayors of major cities, how much more so with Kostas Bakoyannis, for the municipal garages, which are, in fact, useless, Varvakeio and Kotzia. It will be possible for the Municipality of Athens to serve precisely the two-cycles that are very useful and helpful, I repeat, for the traffic, to have their own spaces. In fact, you're going through the street of a parliament and it's used to have a few slots for little machines. You go through Klathmonos Square and, in any case, it's a European picture. But there are few spaces and you absolutely need to find them. I speak this way with passion, because I am a MP of the 1st of Athens, a resident of the city of Athens, and live how horrifying and uncivilised Athens is. This is my election booklet. Be careful, in my election brochure in 2019, within the very few that I promised - I followed the Mitsotakis line and did not promise much - I said: "I will demand the mandatory creation of parking spaces for the two-cycles." So today, I make a promise to make it a reality. And if you don't call me a liar, I'll be happy to talk to you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that a law, no matter how good it is, if there are no conditions for its implementation, is, in fact, losing its value. First of all, I would like to agree with you that, obviously, the monitoring of infringements must be both continuous and rigorous and to such an extent that, in fact, we are actually going to be able to create some proper standards and driving behaviour, which, unfortunately, is very far behind in Greece. Of course, you know very well that this is not just the result of a ministry but of cooperation with the relevant bodies. What I can tell you is that the services of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure will be working together and already very closely with the relevant services of the Ministry of Civil Protection, so that the specific law and, of course, the ministerial decision, which is currently in hand - I have described it previously - can be described - and is - very well related to what you mentioned about organised municipal areas, because at the moment the Municipality of Athens wants to move to these areas - I mean housed - cannot, because the conditions are missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u179	Let me get an idea for a second. Destroyed devastated homes, when they do not have property and legal problems, can be easily used.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u180	Don't have a dialogue, because Mr. Vesyropoulos wants to leave to take part in the committee and he's next. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u181	Madam President, in fact this decision also regulates these cases. That is why I say to you, whether it is housed or it is a plot which at the moment, for example, cannot be used as a car parking area, because it is small, it may well be an organised parking lot, to say it simply double-cycle where with a rent, possibly, the municipality can grant it to a private person. But you have also raised one issue, and I think I will also raise the issue of noise, because it is really important and I will answer it now, expressing some initial thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u182	For the cut-offs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u183	Generally the noise pollution of the two cycles. One of the main causes is the cut-offs. First of all, you should be aware that as a Ministry we are already working on the possibility of the noise card coming back to two-cycles - because at the moment there is no - which means that there will be control over the CTEOs and some authorized workshops, precisely to deal with this issue, because the issue of noise pollution and, of course, the issue of unreasonable parking in fact create this picture that we are currently seeing in our cities, where everyone actually does what they want. In addition, I would like to say to you another thing: because it is precisely the institutional framework that surrounds the application of the law, you should know that we are already working on something that is envisaged, namely fines to workshops that contribute to the alteration of the characteristics of vehicles as a whole, whether they relate to noise or the removal of the DPF filter, which is the filter that keeps these dangerous particles from the exhaust gases of vehicles, or even the illegal intervention by some people in some vehicles with regard to the shooting of kilometres. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] These are all the interventions that alter the characteristics of vehicles - and of the two - and of course - and we intend to move on to tightening up this framework, precisely so that there is danger or fear - because you know how things work in Greece - that we do not go ahead with these changes and that someone knows that when they go to these illegitimate or illegal acts, they will also suffer the consequences. I will also tell you that we intend to equip even the few vehicles that the Ministry of Transport has at the moment with specific noise measurement equipment, so that we can, together with the assistance of the Motorways, regain mixed control steps, of course along with the relevant regional authorities. So you realise that this whole package of measures will be a very small step forward, but in fact it will also have a huge effect on parking, which you have quite rightly mentioned in your protology and in your dentext, but of course also in noise. So all this is an improvement in the urban environment and in terms of practice - see parking - and from an environmental point of view - see exhaust gas and all these changes that are made - and of course from a noise point of view, that is to say, the issue you raised with the cut-offs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too. Now the eleventh question will be discussed under number 216/14-11-2019 in a timely second question by the MP Kilkis of the Change Movement Mr.Georgeos Fragidis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Date the Twins of Kilkis in the Ministry of Culture". Here, Mr. Francis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the center of Kilkis city, on an area of three and a half thousand square meters and a structured surface of two and a half thousand square meters, there is the historic complex of the Two Sprinklers. It is a complex with special characteristics of Ottoman architecture, but also with many effects from the West. They were probably designed by Frenchmen and throughout this route from their construction in 1890 to today they have historical significance as buildings even from the battles of '12-13, the battle of Kilkis, Scratch - Vegetables that had taken place at the time. Since 1890, these buildings have changed very many times, but for many years the Ministry of Culture has been declared as historical monuments. The recognition of this importance of buildings therefore requires that the renovation of the sites and the development of the actions which can be taken to enhance their importance as valuable buildings - a site, that is to say, a point of reference for the region. It could be said that they can be used as thematic exhibitions of historical Byzantine times, they can be used as visiting sites of modern antiquities storage standards, for the thematic exhibitions of the newest history of the Balkans, as a centre for refugee immigration studies, as offices of the IGC of Antiquities Kilkis and library, as a hosting room for documentary arts and much more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Since April 2018 the Antiquities Officer Kilkis requested the Kilkis Land Office to be granted the land and, of course, the buildings with the smoked warehouses. This request was forwarded in May 2018 to the Ministry of Finance's General Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance, and therefore the Twins of Smoking warehouses are owned by the Ministry of Finance. What needs to be done now is to move forward as soon as possible with a joint ministerial decision by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture, so that it is essential to grant the two tobacco warehouses to the Ministry of Culture. If this is done and as soon as possible, we will also be able to escape the risk of 'preparation'. Smoking was characterized by the Kilkis Building Agency. So I ask you: Do you intend, firstly, to make this procedure for a joint ministerial decision of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture, so that they may be granted to the Ministry of Culture? If so, how quickly will these have to be? Because you know very well that the time runs and the durability of these historic Tobacco twins, unfortunately, will not be evident yet and strong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos. Here, Mr. Vessiropoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, you are indeed raising an important issue, which is related to the concession of the Twin Kilkis to the Ministry of Culture, in order to be used by the Department of Antiquities as a place of culture and as a place of residence of its offices. I've already met in my office on the same subject as the State Secretary, Mr. Georganta. What I would like to make clear is that the New Democracy Government does not intend to abandon the state's building stock to the deterioration of time. On the contrary, our intention is to highlight and exploit it and, where appropriate, to discuss cases of concessions for public purposes. This property has a given history over the years. It could be exploited earlier, since since 1997 there was the intention of building the Kilkis Court. It is useful to see the history of the efforts to grant and exploit Twin Kilkis Kilkis, originally owned by the National Defence Fund. In July 2006, by decision of the Minister and the Deputy Minister of Economy and Finance, this property was granted free of charge to the Fund for the Financing of Judiciary Buildings, with the sole purpose of building a Court of Justice of Kilkis. After seven years, no procedure for the purpose of the concession was initiated, on 26 March 2013, by a decision of the Minister of Finance, the above decision on the granting of a grant by ownership to the Treasury Fund for the buildings concerned, on account of non-compliance with the conditions of the concession, was revoked and the ownership returned to the Ministry of Finance. In April 2018, there was indeed a request from the Department of Culture of Antiquities Kilkis, with which the Ministry of Culture requested the concession of this property in order to house the services of the Department of Antiquities Kilkis and to create museum exhibition sites. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] The National Defence Fund has a positive effect on the use of the property in question to the Ministry of Culture, whose request will be examined in due course after the completion of the actions to return the property to the National Defence Fund. At the moment, we are at the final stage in order to adopt the required joint ministerial decision of the Finance and National Defence Ministers to return the ownership of this property from the Ministry of Finance to the National Defence Fund, which will then make the concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u188	Thank you too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Madam President. I am pleased, Minister, because it is exactly the way you say it. Since 1997, he had been granted by the Ministry of National Defence to house the Court of Justice. In the late 1990s, however, there was an answer that in view of the fact that there was a coma in the General Urban Plan Kilkis, tobacco warehouses could not be included in it, i.e. the Court. There was a European project by the Ministry of Culture in 2003, which was a budget of EUR 3 million, for the study and construction of a huge cultural centre in the heart of the city. This study went on and even the contractor’s competition and promotion had been made. Just before the contract was signed, the work was unexpectedly and without any obvious justification, and the programme and the twins of tobacco warehouses were included in the Ministry of Finance's General Secretariat of Public Property. With regard to that decision you said, on 5-7/2006, on the basis of which they were granted to the Court of Justice Fund, it is true. Also, after the five-year deadline, the response of the Kilkis Land Office on 22-3/2012 was that the joint ministerial decision, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture had not been made to determine the use and conditions of construction. In January 2013, therefore, the General Secretariat of Public Property informed the Court of Justice Finance Fund that it would immediately withdraw the concession decision, which was made. The twins of tobacco warehouses were originally introduced in 2018 in the HIAD and by a decision of 21-1-2019 the Ministry of Finance was excluded from this entry. So the request comes from the Department of Antiquities Kilkis in September 2018, transferred this May 2018 to the General Secretariat of the Public Property of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture requested the agreement of the National Defence Fund. In my view, that was a mistake. He shouldn't have done that because the decision of the Ministry of Finance was already made in advance by the Ministry of Finance, which says they are buildings belonging to the Ministry of Finance. So the Ministry of Finance had to go directly with the Ministry of Culture to finish this story of the common ministerial decision. It is good that you say - even so - that the process with the Ministry of Defence proceeds quickly. The point is that it should go a long way, because it had to be done yesterday, not today. Fifteen years of this story and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture, but mainly the society of Kilkis. The use of this complex of twin smokehouses is very important for local society. There - you know - he fights without great weapons to resist poverty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All these processes will contribute to making this architectural jewelry possible soon and to creating new jobs, to be a lever for the region in this difficult times and, above all, to helping to raise culture in this region. I think it requires as brief a procedure as possible so that this problem can be resolved and the twin warehouses can be attributed to the Kilkis society so that it can be used for this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u190	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u191	Mr Colleague, as I said to you, the Ministry of Finance is very well placed to deal with these cases and seeks to find a solution. Since obviously some do not understand the involvement of the National Defence Fund, we have to say that twin Kilkis smokers are the remaining part of the former Dilete Camp, which is located within the urban fabric of the city of Kilkis and had an initial total area of five thousand three hundred square meters. Part of the property was allocated seven hundred square meters to the Municipality of Kilkis and another section of a thousand and fifteen square meters was ordained or validated to third parties. The remaining part of the former 'Delete' camp of three thousand five hundred and forty-five square metres was granted free of charge to the Greek State in 1997 on a joint decision by the Ministers of National Defence and Finance, following the agreement of the National Defence Fund. After the expiry of seven years and because the court building, for which the property was granted, the Minister of Finance withdrew the concession in 2013. As I have said, the adoption of the joint ministerial decision by the Finance and National Defence Ministers is pending immediately. The National Defence Fund will then be responsible for granting this property to the Ministry of Culture. As I told you in my prototype, we are here to give solutions and to examine separately every case linked to public property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u192	Me too, Minister. Now, the fourth question under number 259/26-11-2019 of the F Vice President of Parliament and MP Larissa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, will be discussed to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Volos Hospital and Magnesia Health Centers". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr Papoutsis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Madam President. The question concerns the tragic deficiencies, the huge problems in the operation of the General Hospital of Volos and the health centres of Magnesia. In particular, of the sixty - two positions provided for in the organization of the General Hospital of Volos, ninety - six specialist doctors are currently serving. At the same time, there are ancillary doctors contracts, as well as the operation of a number of qualified doctors. The result of this is, of course, the intensification of work and many times the weakness - beyond the elimination - of sufficient coverage of newspapers. At the end of the month, tomorrow, five doctors, ophthalmologists, cardiologists, pediatricians, microbiologists and orthopaedics expire at the end of the month, and, for example, the blood donation department stays with a doctor, as well as the ophthalmologist, while a doctor has a gastrointestinal department, after the end of the contract. As a result of this situation, for example, in surgery, due to the insufficient number of anaesthetics, it is planned on one hand that they have more than six-month horizons, but on the other hand, from both rooms that are available and could function, that only one, due to the lack of anesthetics, operates. Of course, while doctors, hospital staff, could manage regular surgery five or six days a week, operate three days a week, or operate three days a week. There are similar problems in nursery and other auxiliary staff, which, from about a thousand posts, are covered by the seven hundred and not all by permanent staff, but also by various contracts. The problems with the MRI which is not working due to a lack of staff are corresponding. Of course, what highlights - in addition to all that I have said - the Association of Hospital Doctors of the General Hospital of Volos and health centres is the issue of incomplete funding. It estimates that the requirements for the last quarter to meet the needs of hospitals and health centres as a whole amount to about 1 million for operating expenses and necessary supplies. So far, the hospital has been financed with a mere sum of 80 thousand euros. In health centres, the picture is corresponding. There are huge shortages in personnel, health, nursing, and they go by saying. Health centres are not only responsible for dealing with or managing emergencies, but mainly the part of prevention, which is completely nonexistent, precisely because of these huge shortages in experts, staff, infrastructure and equipment. Also, the EMCDDA has huge problems both in crews and in numbers of workers and in ambulances, so shifts in health centres are uncovered by ambulances. The questions, Madam President, are therefore what measures will be taken by the Government, the Ministry, in order to fill gaps, vacant posts at Volos Hospital, and also at health centres by permanent staff - that is to say, their staff - and all the support parts of the hospital and health centres in Magnesia. Of course, another question is what the government will do so that there is the necessary government funding to meet the needs of the hospital and health centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lambroulis, the problems at the "Achilopoulos" Hospital of Volos exist and have not been adequately addressed in recent years, as is the case with the whole, not only with hospitals, but also with the issues affecting public health in our country. The permanent recruitment of medical, nursing and other staff was carried out with the drop-off, without a real needs-related plan, the ancillary staff increased vertically in order to meet needs, the necessary changes in hospital organisations to better organise them did not go ahead and the necessary appropriations were not provided, resulting in a significant proportion of the costs being transferred over the next financial years. In addition, no structural measures were taken to control pharmacy expenditure on hospitals and reduce clawback. This is the reality at the "Achilopoulos" Hospital of Volos. As far as your question is concerned, I have the following answer: The hospital's original budget was at EUR 35.6 million, and I must inform you that we now have additional appropriations for the hospital to continue its normal operation and the proper supply of health material by the end of the year. The budget is currently at EUR 37.8 million. So there are credits and, if necessary, more will be provided, because we are monitoring the implementation of the budgets in hospitals on a daily basis, so that we can close down this year properly. And that's how we're going to keep going. That's what's happening, I'm stressing, and all the hospitals in the country. The necessary recruitment of permanent staff will progress rapidly. I would once again like to emphasise the fact that our design includes covering the necessary organic positions with permanent staff, especially with regard to medical and other health staff, so that we do not have to resort to temporary solutions which create problems. In this direction, I believe that in the first quarter of 2020 the necessary procedures for the recruitment of 14 doctors of various specialties will be completed. And I say in the first quarter, because we will soon bring legislation providing for a new procedure to speed up the process of evaluating the candidate doctors from the crisis councils so that we do not lose time in their evaluation and their appointment to the National Health System. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. Auxiliary staff will continue to meet the needs of the hospital in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the services. Let me say at this point that as far as subsidiary staff are concerned, the contract ends today - if I am not mistaken - and is financed by the Public Investment Programme and the ESDP, we have already taken the necessary steps. We have said several times that this staff will be able to return to the health system from next week. With regard to the news program now, I think it is normally covered without gaps. The need to recruit anestheticologist is our top priority. We are all aware of the shortcomings that exist in this specialty. There are too many vacancies of anestheticists. Of course, it is a priority to cover this specialty in this hospital, but also in other hospitals. The MRI was received in March 2019 and was licensed from the beginning of November. So today, with the help of an X-ray and a pilot, it serves the needs of the hospitals. At the present primary level of health in the Magnesia region, as you know, there are six health centers and a civil-type health centre located within the city's urban fabric of Volos. There are ninety - eight doctors who have been appointed forty - four organic posts, including rural doctors in regional hospitals. The coverage level of nursing staff is satisfactory. And at the EKAB Magnesia, there are forty-two employees in the city of Volos in particular, attempting four ambulances on the morning shift, four ambulances on the afternoon and three ambulances on the night shift. The average response time to call an ambulance within the town complex of Volos is about ten minutes, while for the assistance outside the town complex the time is proportional to the distance. In the context of the operational planning of the EMCDDA with a view to better functioning, the administration of the EMCDDA shall, in consultation with the Ministry of Health's political leadership, make every effort to strengthen the organisation to permanent and subsidiary staff, in order to ensure the continuity of the organisation and to meet the needs of the citizens in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, too. I would ask both the honourable Members and the main ministers to try to be as much in their time as possible. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u197	Madam President, I have been drawn to the point of view, because there were a lot of issues relating to the problems of Volos Hospital and the data often draw us to the point of recording the problems. Minister, the New Democracy policy is a given one, it is a continuation of SYRIZA's policy in the field of public health and it contains sub-financing, which we will say in the budget. The evidence is already specific. The situation of previous years under the SYRIZA - ANEL government, SYRIZA, pre-existing New Democracy - PASOK government continues. I would remind you that in 2012, 2013 became the crooking of hospital agencies by slaughtering tens of thousands of seats throughout the territory. And on the basis of these state-of-the-art hospital agencies, it serves between 50% and 60% of the staff, and do so many times in a hospital, that is, very much behind the needs that were recorded even in 2009, which were not covered also by hospitals, respectively health centers. So we have no illusion that the policy it sees as health - and public health, but health as a whole - will, as far as public health benefits are concerned, have such effects, hospitals, health centres with a reduction in costs and with the underselling to strike red. See now, the shortages in doctors are seven thousand. Will you hire seven thousand doctors? I listened very carefully to your protology. To agree that in the light of the gaps, there is a need for about seven thousand doctors. The next period is retired about two thousand. Will these needs be met? All right, you said you would hire or speed up evaluation procedures as part of the recruitment notice. But see there are already seven thousand gaps or seven thousand shortcomings and two thousand will be retired. So there are nine thousand left. At the same time, more than 20% of workers, all of which are, of course, doctors, nurses and assistants, are working in public hospitals with unacceptable and shameful flexible working relationships, with late payment contracts. Thus, for example, some sixteen thousand are the workers who are hostages - because this is what this is about - who are poorly paid and often unpaid for long periods, always under the tomachine cracks of imminent or potential dismissal. Dismissals of contractors will signal possible mergers or closures of parts, clinics, beds. See, for example, Attica. Thirty percent of surgical tables don't work due to lack of personnel. A similar situation - as I said to you and mentioned to you in the question - exists in the General Hospital of Volos, where due to a lack of anaesthetics, perhaps the surgeons, only operate one room. However, the second Chamber may not be able to operate because of these deficiencies. So all this has an impact on the existing potential of the workers in hospitals, doctors, nurses and goes by saying, with the intensification, which has reached the point of not giving way, with exhausting working hours, with an increase in occupational accidents and, of course, with occupational diseases reaping. This is precisely the result of a particular policy in the area of public health, on the basis of the budgetary 'necessary' - in introductory terms - of the word - of achieving the budgetary objectives aimed at limiting the social rights of our people, so that any resources that are being saved can be driven towards strengthening the famous competitiveness, namely the profitability of business and monopoly groups. That's the reason. In addition to demanding these acute health problems, in this case in Magnesia, in the health centres and Volos Hospital, due to the enormous shortages that exist, they should organize their struggle and claims, not only for relief, staffing, etc., but above all to target the causes of these problems. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u198	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lambroulis, in no case is there any sub-financing of the health system. Indeed, the aim is, because in recent years of the crisis Greece has indeed been far away from the average expenditure in relation to the rest of Europe, to be able to reach this point again a few years ago. But it doesn't only matter how much money we spend on health. It matters how we spend this money. And to be more specific, we must protect the public character of the system. The system today is public, and Greece is the third country among the Member States of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to private health expenditure. Therefore, unnecessary burdens on citizens and charges on households for health costs. So, at the same time as increasing funding, we ensure that all citizens have access, without additional costs, to the health system and we protect the public character of the system. Let me tell you that health in no way has a price, but it is costly and this cost must be kept low and we must promote cost-benefit solutions in the health system and make efficient use of the resources available. As far as the agencies are concerned - I have told them in previous questions I have answered - the health system has completed its pension years. There are organisations and procedures that need to be modernised and to go to modern organisational models of hospitals in order to meet the needs of the population and the needs that come in the future by introducing new technologies, which contribute to the therapeutic treatment. As far as doctors and other staff are concerned, there will certainly be no cover for all the vacant posts from one moment to the next and within a short period of time. However, with specific strategic planning, we will be able to move forward in four years to cover most of the gaps. That is our objective, and we will be energising the provision in this direction, which provides that the proclamation of the position to cover a doctor who is close to retirement will be six months before the doctor leaves the system, so that the position of the doctor can be immediately covered at the time of departure. Finally, there are in no way health redundancies because they are terminations of contracts with contractors and ancillary staff. Of course, we are making every effort, as we are doing now with the auxiliary doctors through the ESDP, as we did with the four thousand workers through the OAS programmes, who have fought to stay in the system in order to meet this needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u200	Me too, Minister. We continue with the third under No 263/26-11-2019 topical question of the second question of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on "Direct actions for the operation of intensive care units". The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Kontozamanis. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are well aware that according to the global standards and in particular the World Health Organisation, at least 10% of beds should correspond to beds, intensive care unit beds, and of course, depending on the need for an increased number of beds to be taken care of. This means that for Greece the necessary or the equivalent to the international standard number would be three and a half thousand beds. Instead, today there are seven hundred 50 public beds, according to the information we have, and only five hundred sixty are fully operational. Of the rest - from five hundred sixty to seven hundred fifty - the eighty, while they have equipment, do not have the necessary staff and about 100 beds have neither equipment nor personnel. In other words, there is the possibility of a hundred ninety beds being developed, if we have a staff of all and a hundred equipment. If we talk about each region, this is reflected in the corresponding figures. In Crete, according to my data, they fully operate thirty-five beds, while there is the possibility of another ten to eleven if we ensure the staff and equipment. To limit myself to what I have just said to you, I would like you to answer, to let us know what the design you are planning is for the development, first of all, of public beds that we have the opportunity, with equipment and staff, to develop, and what you are thinking, how you plan to increase the number of beds beyond the seven hundred fifty that we have, in order not to reach, but to reduce our difference from the international standards over the next few years. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u202	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, intensive treatment units throughout the country are also facing, as I said before, the whole of the country's health structures, particularly in nursing staff. Of course, let me say that it is not enough to increase the number of beds of intensive treatment, but there must be an overall approach to the question of intensive treatment, and I am thinking above all of the import procedures and export procedures of a patient from an intensive care unit. There must be a uniform procedure throughout the country and this will help to make efficient use of the beds available. Now, as far as the evidence is concerned, the picture we have is that in the Z'Health Region the organic number of beds IF is forty-eight. Right now, there's thirty-eight, and they're forty-eight developed. I therefore believe that with actions that we have taken, not only for Crete but also for the rest of Greece, we will be able to develop the two extra beds and, of course, with a specific plan to cover all the organic beds provided for in the hospital agencies. The intensification of intensive care units will continue to develop - as I have said - the operating beds and to cover the organic bodies. And we will actually picture with a specific plan - which is being prepared in cooperation with the National Emergency Aid Centre - what should be the development of intensive care units in the country. Let me say that it seems too much to me to see the number of three and a half thousand, but we will see the international standards. And, of course, in this context, we must, in addition to the rules for intensive care units, also develop increased care facilities. Many times incidents that could be covered in the care unit are introduced into the intensive care units and are, of course, available beds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u204	Me, too. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I think that after ten years of crisis we should see, with a plan, how we restore social needs and, of course, how we obtain all those conditions so that we can say that we have restored the functioning of the National Health System and other areas of policies and structures that are necessary in order to carry out the State's obligation to support citizens in full. Now, if the number instead of three and a half thousand is three thousand or - I say to you - two thousand or if we make a discount for the debate and say that there must be a thousand five hundred beds belonging to intensive care units - that is double what we can develop with the possibility we have today - then at the same time there must also be the corresponding number of beds of increased care. According to the World Health Organisation, the number of beds from that of intensive care units should be substantially twice. And this will help to dismantle the system with intensive care units. Because there will be a faster exit at the stage of reducing the need to be in the intensive care unit and transfer to the care unit. That is, of course, something you know better than we do. And we will have to see an overall plan for the development of beds and intensive care units, so that we can say in a year or if you want two years that we have reduced the distance from international standards. I'd tell you specific things. First, the beds that work and today are not fully staffed. It's with the minimum number. This means that there is a burden on human resources. This is not the case for intensive care units, because this is where increased attention is needed. So we have the need and these units we have, to serve the best, but also to see the plan. You didn't answer me. I'd tell you a thought. The coverage of this need to be prioritized. We are prepared as a Movement of Change, to support your own initiative that provides for rapid, direct procedures, of course, on criteria of democracy, transparency and evaluation, so that these beds can be directly served. To put a bet as a state, as a government, as a parliament within six months to have covered first the seven hundred fifty, to have fully developed it and in the next six months have doubled the intensively treated beds. It's a disgrace. We've been discussing this for a long time. It's been going through different stages. It is one that we find the CEDEFOP, and we say 'take temporary contracts'. Next we say the results must be made by the Minister's Office and not by the CEDEFOP. You remember all of these grotesques that happened in the previous period. Finally, with clear procedures, bring in an initiative - we will support it - with the aim of responding to the National Health System, the state in fact, to its obligation to meet the needs of these units. People die many times and I don't say it badly. From "a drachma pepper you lose cooking", which we say, to say otherwise. So let us put this before us, as a matter of priority, in order to be clear about both our conscience and the people's mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, I am pleased that you are coming to my words, what I said in my prototype, that there must be a concrete plan and there will be an integrated approach to the issue which concerns not only intensive treatment beds, but also individual actions, as I said, the development of care facilities and, of course, other actions, as has to do with the introduction criteria in these units. I am glad that when this plan comes for approval, we are waiting for your support, but also for the support of the whole Parliament because it concerns a sensitive aspect of the National Health System. Let me assure you once again that intensive care units, emergency medicine, emergency departments, what is to do with immediate assistance is prioritise our own government, and we will soon be able to present our plan to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u208	Thank you too, Minister, for managing time. We continue with the eighth question under number 215/12-11-2019 on the second question of the Member of Parliament's Laurel of the Change Movement Mr.Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The image of the Mavrotic - Women's Clinic of the General Hospital of Larissa". Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u209	Minister, as you have seen in the title of my question, I have also "and", "and of the Midwives - Women's Clinic of the General Hospital of Larissa", because I have recently dealt with you with the Gastrointestinal Clinic of the Hospital of Larissa. Because words cannot make it enough to describe the image and because one picture is a thousand words, I urge you to come to Larissa. We're close. Come see Larissa General Hospital. It is a special hospital, integrated into the city's web and you know very well what it serves and what needs it serves. We can't go on like this. The Clinic of the Larissa General Hospital, which I am concerned with today, should not, Minister, come as a question to Parliament. I should, I appreciate, have the government seen the surnamed complaints that are now there, simple women - I have them here and I will hand them over to you - that their surgery is abolished because there is no doctor. The manager has serious health problems and is permanently on sick leave, the medical assistant's contract has expired and is gone and the clinic is on the autopilot. There's some planned surgery in Cesarean sections and then chaos. The complainant is indeed a patient with fibrosis and has been asked for an external clinic of EUR 2,500. Unless we do it like that, because if we do it like this, then I guess there's other things going on, which I don't want to assume at all. Also, hotel and technology equipment - and I insist, we are talking about a gynecological clinic, which you understand what is going on every day and what a range of work is going on, and what exactly and health benefits it covers - is obsolete. The image that one sees, because I have visited the space several times and try to describe it to you and convey you, is pathetic. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Madam President, I shall conclude. If a Health Agency really comes to check the clinic, I think we'll have very serious problems as a country and you as a ministry. What I expect from you, Minister, is that today and by leaving here we will have a solution to the Women's Clinic of the General Hospital of Larissa. If nothing else, it's not only the algal image, but it's also shameful to discuss such conditions in 2019 at a gynecological clinic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th General School of Painter. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Likioulis, in your current timely question you raise two, indeed, very important problems, not only of the Larissa General Hospital, to which you referred, but also of the whole hospitals of Thessaly and the country in general. Let me say, of course, that we have repeatedly stressed that we have recorded these problems. Of course, there were recent reports in Larissa about the gynecological clinic. And it is not only the gynecological clinic that, in fact, has these problems, but it is almost the majority of the country's health structures because, first of all, the old age of building equipment and infrastructure. Of course, what needs to be done immediately - and it is done - is to record the urgent needs in order to take the necessary steps to keep these infrastructures operational and, of course, over time, a plan to renovate or build such infrastructures from the outset, such as hospitals, because, over time, these infrastructures are being reappointed. Personnel shortages are covered in two ways, with fixed-term contracts and permanent recruitment. Our aim is where there are immediate needs to be met with subsidiary staff. Of course, as I said before, all the necessary positions of specialist doctors to meet the needs of the region. Let me say once again that there is an attempt to renew and modernise, not only in Larissa but everywhere. There is a specific design on new investments in infrastructure and equipment and in hotel equipment, because, indeed, the situation in Larissa's Gynecological Clinic does not provide anyone with a price. Building infrastructure must be maintained and where there are problems in taking the necessary steps and, of course, design new and modern wings and know where to intervene. In particular, as far as the Larissa Hospital is concerned, you will allow me to say that it is clear that there is no exception to the rule of the overall implementation of our planning, which concerns upgrading buildings and, of course, with concrete measures - as we have already announced - the establishment of the Gastrterological Department at the Larissa General Hospital - we are able to meet the increased needs of the region. In addition, we have five in progress to cover specific qualifications. For the gynecological clinic, to which you refer in particular, I will tell you that recruitment in a position of obstetric gynecology has already been completed by the Medical Crisis Council of the 5th Health Area and a position of obstetric gynecology, upon request from the subsidiary staff platform. What I can commit to you is 2020, where the design and planning of the recruitment of staff and the operation of the National System will be our sole responsibility. Because we received a specific situation a few months ago. It will be completely different from the situation that we inherited from the previous government and there will be support, both in human resources and in the infrastructure of health institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u212	Mrs. Lykoule has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u213	Mr Minister, I fully understand what you say about the situation, which you have received and, in general, about all the things you have received. Indeed, you are a new government and you are on honeymoon, but at some point it will stop, as you and I are well aware. And that's not just about the gynaecological clinic, it's about the mobile units that I asked you about, because they don't have certification, the other day, about the gastrointestinal clinic, etc. You have a lot to deal with. But here, you have one particular thing. You have hospitals that are organized, provide services in a city, such as in the Larisa Prefecture, which is the fifth county of the country, with nearly three hundred thousand permanent residents plus students, plus the Armed Forces. So we are not talking about something small and important, we are talking about something very important. I do not understand, and I would like you to clarify that in your second language, because we are being watched by people who care very much about it, Minister. So please explain to us what you mean when you say that the process has already been carried out, they will have been hired in 2020. In 2020, but when? Tell us when? When's the gynecological clinic going to open? I want you to be clear about this. Two. Do you know how they make on-calls now? I got their schedule. I asked for it. As you know, there is no better map than this. There's no on-calls in the next few days. So, by having these doctors who do not have them, she submitted a minimum on-came programme last month for eighteen days, leaving the clinic uncovered for the remaining 12 days. 3 Days 9 to 11 November, 15 to 17 November etc. That's all you have. I was tortured to find them, but you'll find them right away. That means the clinic isn't working. It doesn't work either it's its old form or we don't like it. It's not working at all. You also have to deal with a very big issue of your government's policy strategy. Of course, I imagine that you are not the ones - with the sign of the modernist government that wants to take the country forward and who wants to be fair to the ranks of people who are disadvantaged incomeably - who, in fact, are not at the door, but from the window, you will drive people out to the private health area, people who do not have the power to do so. The complainant, I was telling you before, needs in the private health field to give EUR 2,500 - she's a supermarket worker, so she doesn't have that money - to go surgery for fibrosis. So you do not answer to me today, to this woman you answer, as do all the women who are waiting for. We often confuse the folk with the populist, I would like to say to you that the majesty about national strategies and about the appropriateness of a government policy is the very act, simple everyday life. With simple, small and daily steps you can show how different you are. But so far, Minister, on all three issues, which we discussed together and which I had the luck of answering to me, I think there have been no steps and very long delays. But that is what you must say today that you will take the initiative so that there can be a solution tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Likikalis, let me say that everyone is judged by the outcome of the policies that they are planning and implementing. Of course we too will be judged by the outcome of our actions and our actions. I told you that the picture, which we had just taken over from the country's government in the field of health, was and remains bleak in many cases. Our concern is not only strategic plans and good words, but our concern is to improve the daily lives of citizens and to facilitate their contact with the system and, of course, to ensure access for citizens to services without additional costs and without burdening the citizens. I think the National Health System is doing this, and in the case that you have told me, someone needs money to go to the private sector. I am sure that the public sector meets these needs at no cost to the citizens. Be sure, because these problems have been recorded by us, not only in Larissa, but throughout the country long before they come to the public, because, as I mentioned, there were relevant newspapers and the press in the region about the problems in the gynecological clinic. I am sure that we are working and giving solutions, not only for each clinic, for one region, but for the whole structure of the country. The citizen is slowly perceived and will soon see more things done and his daily life improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the second question with reference to the cycle of petitions and questions by the Member of the State of Change movement Mr. Georgios Kaminis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Physical health of children in the camps'. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis. Your Honor, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Madam President. The issue of refugees and especially minor refugees - particularly unaccompanied people - is being offered for very emotional exploitation and I do not like that. In this case, we are dealing with a couple of minors. It is the report of the newspaper “GUARDIAN”, which was published around 10 October. I read it and others and we were shocked. It is the case of a nine-year-old, Aisha, who was finally hit by the so-called resignation syndrome. I was ignoring that there is this disease. It hurts children who are under constant mental abuse, mental suffering, not necessarily present at their expense. They attend long-term witnesses in great mental suffering and at some point show a "degree syndrome". They close their eyes, stop talking, they don't sleep and slowly and slowly muscle atrophy. The testimonies were that this child finally reached the peak when he witnessed in Moria a stabbing and has since suffered this syndrome. There are testimonies for many children in Moria, who are either self-injurious or completely isolated. This is an extreme case, a case that has shocked public opinion. I put a question to the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Health. I have been answered by Mr Koumoutsakos, but there is still a few more to learn. It was a pretty crowded answer. We didn't finally find out what happened with Isa. She was transferred to Athens with her family? Was he introduced to a clinic? I would first of all like to know whether there are any further health problems, and I am looking forward to dentistry, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u218	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Kamine, it is true that ever-increasing migratory flows have created a very difficult situation, which is exacerbating and certainly no developed state of the modern Western world can easily cope with it. No matter how well-prepared we are, no matter how well-organised we are, it is almost certain that it is not easy to manage this situation. A specific plan exists, and indeed, it has been developed by the Prime Minister himself in the past days and I am referring to the initiative of the programme with which no unaccompanied child will be left alone. It is not here to develop the axes of this programme. It's well known, we all know them. However, the program "No one single child" has specific objectives, and on the part of the Ministry of Health we are sensitive and prepared to assist with all our powers, wherever and whenever we are called, in the context of our responsibilities. Primary and secondary health structures are at a high level of readiness to provide the required health services. Of course, because you refer not only to unaccompanied children, but generally to children who come through migratory flows, I have to say that there are mental health units that are supervised by the Ministry of Health and provide the necessary services to anyone in need. I do not want to go into specific examples and say how many children have come to these structures and how many incidents have been dealt with adequately and successfully by the health system. In answer to your question about the little girl, Aisha, and her post "GUARDIAN", I must tell you that the image we have in the case of an unidentified minor girl from Moya - and let me say that rather the unidentified minor girl should be what the post says - is that it was carried out in the past and specifically in September 2019 at the "Saint Sofia" Children's Hospital and has the same features as the name mentioned in this post. That's why I'm talking about an unidentified minor girl. She is a nine-year-old girl, hospitalized from 25 September to 7 October with a referral from the General Hospital of Mytilini with withdrawal syndrome, in fact, from four years ago. He was directly referred to the hospital departments and was followed by the Pediatric Department of the Children's Hospital "Agia Sophia". The minor girl is not hospitalized right now and has been discharged. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] So, in order to be more specific - and I will end, Madam President - in your questions, today that we are talking about has already been mentioned by an unidentified minor girl who bears the characteristics of Isa, to whom you are referring. He's not hospitalized, he's been hospitalized in the past. And I would like to say to you that, in order to avoid incidents involving young children, they are being launched at central level - and following the Prime Minister's own initiative - solutions with the creation of new modern hosting structures, legislative definition of the term 'unaccompanied', 'family' and general legislative definition of what has to do with minor children, the free access to health and education, the tightening up of penalties for offences against these children and a plan of actions to dismantle unaccompanied operating circuits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Papoutsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to know whether they have suffered your perception and other similar incidents from children who have experienced this same syndrome. In his reply, Mr Koumoutsakos mentions the creation of a safe zone - safe area - within the Cyts. In particular, I would like to know whether, apart from the reception and identification centre of Lesvos, there is a specific timetable for safe zones in Samos, Kos and Lero. I would also like to know, in the field of the mental health of children, except for the Ministry, whether there are other bodies involved. More generally now, because all this is a culmination of certain living conditions, I would like to ask you, Minister, if specific preventive medicine programmes have been provided for in the premises, reception and identification centres, such as vaccinations. And in view of the winter that comes, have you taken any special emergency measures in relation to the children at the reception and identification centres? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u222	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kamin, the immunization of children's mental health is a priority for the Ministry of Health and we are working in this direction. All matters relating to the health of the Ministry of Health - because you know very well that this matter is not only the responsibility of a ministry, there is the responsibility of ministries in the design and implementation - to be carried out both at legislative and at service level, in order to meet the needs of the provision of mental health services. For our part, there is readiness in all health structures and throughout the country, a concrete plan to cover preventive and public health protection actions and, in this context, the Community Centres for Psychiatric Health and Adolescents, which provide services for the prevention and promotion of psychosocial health for children and adolescents. There is a specific design starting with the initiative, as I said, of the Prime Minister himself, which referred to unaccompanied children in order to meet the health needs of both children and the rest of the people who are in these centres. I'm answering as far as the Ministry of Health is concerned. There is, as I have said, a broader planning and co-ordination with other ministries, in the part of the protection of public health, not only of immigrants but also of the wider population in the area where immigrants exist. It is complete, it is ongoing, and I am sure that we best guarantee the health of all these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, too. We will now discuss the fourth question with number 1199/11-10-2019 of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panayiotis (Giotas) Poulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The recruitment of medical and nursing personnel for the immediate needs of the interconnected General Hospitals of Livadia - Thebes". This question will be answered again by the State Secretary, Mr Kontozamanis. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, with the number 1199 of October 11, 2019 question I submitted to you and still signed by thirteen Members of SYRIZA, I explained to you how urgent and immediate the need for recruitment to medical and paramedical staff in the associated General Hospitals of Livadia and Thebes is. The necessary recruitments were already scheduled in a SYRIZA government, precisely because public health and hospital operation is a matter of urgency, which is not deferred. In particular, an overall four-year recruitment plan of ten thousand permanent doctors and other health professionals in the ESS was announced by the year 2022. Indeed, the organic gaps caused by the Memorandum 2009-2014 in hospitals are too many. In combination with retirement, the situation in hospitals is often hopeless. Although the SYRIZA government negotiated and achieved a new hiring rule in the public sector, the well-known '1 to 1', and there was a budgetary provision for a thousand five hundred posts, nothing has gone wrong yet. In addition, for 2019 the notice of nine hundred forty permanent doctors for hospitals had been approved and there is no development, as well as the notice of 2K. So what's going to happen? That's my question. Because you know that the Livade General Hospital expects five posts of specialist doctors - not to mention the specialties for the economy of the year at the moment - but also four posts of specialist doctors at the interconnected hospital of Thebes. These deficiencies, combined with the fact that five doctors retire at the end of 2019, plus that there is a withdrawal of a pediatrician, you realize that they are causing a desperate situation in the functioning of these interconnected hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, too. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Pulou, the previous government was very prevalent in terms of the number of recruitments announced. Why did you talk about ten thousand recruitments, but we found credits for two thousand four hundred fifty jobs. So our intention and words are different from reality. The truth is, these positions are moving forward and there is planning to have PHS approval, credit, in order to have more positions and to fill the gaps of the National Health System. With regard to the ninety-sixteen qualified doctors' positions - I have said this several times - we are in the process of enlarging them, because we are changing the procedure a little with regard to the applicants' judgement so that we can speed up the process and have more rapid completion of the crisis by the Crisis Councils so that doctors in the National Health System are directly available in a very short time. In addition, the 2K notice, to which you referred, is a notice of the Supreme Staff Selection Board, is of the AACC. We are in a process, in daily contact with the AACC, and I believe that soon we will complete the processing and will post the provisional tables. All that the Ministry of Health has to do is press the ASA in order to complete this process quickly. And, of course, the thousands of five hundred nursing staff, which you are referring to, are obviously a thousand hundred posts with approved appropriations, where we have completed the distribution of these posts not only to nursing but also to other staff who meet needs in the health system. At the moment, the document has left the Ministry of Health, it is towards the Ministry of Labour, because it intervenes in the distribution of posts by holding a percentage for special groups of the population and is in the process of being proclaimed. As I said, we are also planning new posts for 2020 and for the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, too. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u229	Obviously, you know, Minister, that recruitment procedures through an ADP are unacceptably delayed or too much. So why didn't you respect the recorded needs from the beginning of the year? You want to change and facilitate the process, but you could obviously do that from now on. Do you now think of how these hospitals will work, with these recorded deficiencies from 2018, but also those that will occur at the end of 2019? Obviously you want to change everything you found in your hands. I did not say that the ten thousand recruitments had funding, and I said that there was a gradual coverage and a provision to add these ten thousand posts to the Public Health System. But I am particularly concerned, because I have heard you a moment ago that you have answered a colleague that the private sector ultimately covers important health needs for citizens. Do you really aim at depreciating and the National Health System, and exactly all these delays contribute in this direction? Because you didn't really hurry to do these recruitments, but you rushed to change the hospital managers, as if that was the big thing about the hospitals. Of course, I do not want to say about Boeotia that you have also provided proofs of writing with 'golden' party masters, who do not have the formal qualifications. Minister, the health of the citizens cannot wait and I really would not like to be a veteran of bad news, but you will see that issues will arise in operation by the end of 2019 and you will not have had time to make these recruitments. There will be major problems with the operation of the two hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Pulou, in no case do we want to slow down the recruitment procedures and delay recruitment in the system that is so needed. That is why I have explained before that we are taking concrete initiatives both at legislative level and at service level, so that immediately and in a short time that these positions can be set up and that the needs can be met. There was no delay. We simply believe that we have made a more rational distribution of the three hundred posts. We have reflected the real need for the agencies and we are calling for the positions of the other staff. As far as medical staff are concerned, I told you we were speeding up the process. Where necessary, they shall be covered by subsidiary staff. We've already given clear samples of writing. We have managed and kept four thousand workers in the health system from the OAED programme. We have succeeded and secured credit for the subsidiary doctors, whose contract expires at the end of November, to be in the system again and we have been able to have credits to cover emergencies with additional ancillary staff. I am sure that our design, both for 2020 and for the coming years, will enable us in time to meet whatever needs the system has. Let me make a comment on what you said about the governors. I would like to remind you that the mandate of commanders has expired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-29-S1-commons.u233	With the consent of the House at 14.14 p.m., the sitting on Monday, December 2, 2019, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
