ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 5-2-2019 delegation, the minutes of the Council meeting of Tuesday 5 February 2019 were ratified by the Bureau of Parliament's President: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51 A/104-1997) and Part Parliamentary (Government Gazette 106 A 224-87), as applicable"]] Before entering today's agenda I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Thursday, 7 February 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 318/4-2-2019 topical question by MP Fthiotidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Vettas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of: "The payment problems relating to the non-successfulness of agricultural parcels". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 324/4-2-2019 by the New Democracy MP Mr Yoyakas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: ‘Application for a temporary pension to members of the Agricultural Insurance Fund (OGF)’. 3. The 333/5-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the damage caused by the new National Road of Chania - Kissamos on the northern road axis of Crete (BOAK), due to the floods, as well as within the settlement of Kato Stalos on Malindretou Street". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 319/4-2-2019 topical question by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Tsironis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Except for slaughter of animals in Greece in the context of religious or other cultural events. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 325/4-2-2019 by MP Lesvos of New Democracy Mr Haralambos Athanasiou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Increase of the approved budget for the Improving Plans for the Northern Aegean Region’. 3. The 335/5-2-2019 topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Image of the collapse of the irrigation network of the General Organisation for Improvement (GOB) Pineion-Alpheus". 4. The 321/4-2-2019 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Andreas Rizzoulis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Extension of the payment of debts to insurance funds for pensioners’. 5. The question by No. 334/5-2-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning "the effort to prevent trade union activity and redundancies at Piraeus Bank". 6. The 320/4-2-2019 topical question by the MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Conservation, Development and Conservation of Social Security Offices in Karlovasi Samos and Evgenios Ikaria". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 337/5-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Problems of workers in business interests “Zoura”. 8. The 330/4-2-2019 topical question by Independent MEP, Evia Nikolaos Michou, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on "Continuance of persecution of members of the Greek minority in Albania". 9. The Question No 315/29-1-2019 by Z' Vice-President of Parliament and Independent MEP I of Athens Mr Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning 'the conditions of the migrants' living and working conditions in Nea Manolad after the fire'. 10. The 284/21-1-2019 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “Albanian street developments in the creation of “Greek Albania”. 11. The 280/17-1-2019 topical question by Piraeus I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The administration of the Aegean is being promoted by the Government." 12. The 260/9-1-2019 topical question by Piraeus I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question by No. 261/9-1-2019 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". 14. Observed. The Question No 263/9-1-2019 by Congressman Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the Skopje state".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Repeal of 31 December 2018 Act of Legislative Content “Extension of the possibility of exempting primary residence from liquidation under Law No.3869/2010 (A 130), extension of reduced VAT rates to the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios and extension of the measure of “Transport Equivalent” of Law 4551/2018’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 31 January 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting, in principle, of articles and amendments. So far there are, if I remember correctly, two or three amendments tabled by colleagues. Mr. Drasakis told me that the Ministry will not table a government amendment. There will be a record of the colleagues as soon as Mr. Pallis gets up in Step. Does the House agree on the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u3	The House unanimously agreed. So let's get started. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr George Pallis, has the floor for 15 minutes. Please, open the system for recording speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think it will be necessary for the fifteenth minute at all, in the sense that today's ratification of a legislative act of 31 December is an act in which, in the committee, the majority of the parties agreed, and the reservation from the New Democracy, I imagine, was not on the substance of the ratification, but it was on the basis of the procedure that we are following in Parliament. It is an opportunity today, I would say, with mild tons to talk about the ratification of this act of legislation. And politically we need to talk, but it is something that we agree on, and there is no need for a wide range of tensions. An excellent process of ratification of an act of legislation, a process that comes to make time for society. The government takes the decision and we come to Parliament to check the decision taken and ratify it in Parliament. On 31 December, therefore, one of the issues that had urgently to be closed was the extension of the reduced VAT rates to the five islands where the reception centres of refugees and migrants, following the extension given last summer, were in a difficult period of negotiations for the country's exit from the programmes. There was a debate in the committee on the subject raised by the linking of the refugee issue to reduced VAT rates in the five islands. We must be clear here, because the wording of the act of legislation states that the islanders of these islands will retain the reduced rates, since the number of guests in reception and identification centres in the 12 months preceding the adoption of the decision - that is, the average of the number - exceeds the number laid down by law and by the host rooms. We need to be clear here, and we need to speak frankly. It is not a gift to islanders to accept the bad conditions prevailing when there is overcrowding in the first reception and identification centres. It's a reality that's true today. We don't want it. Our aim - and this is what has been set out by local community bodies - is that the operating numbers of these centres are in the prescribed numbers. We are very well aware - and I address all the wings - that in the previous years the Ministry of Migration Policy, which changed the policies implemented in the European Union - Turkey's joint declaration, have experienced problems that have sometimes been dealt with better and worse, with crises and tensions and all that depends on the flows of the five coasts. In this sense, then, what the government is coming to do - and we are also dominating today - is to inform our neighbours on the islands where there are consequences from all of this, that, for the time being, the average of the twelve-month period is more than human beings and we have not done so well as a country, the reduced rates of VAT will be maintained. I think we understand all the reasons. It's a reality. However, maintaining the reduced VAT rates is not a development measure nor a universal measure for all the islands. What we all have to do in the Commission, when that time comes - and I think that SYRIZA has been placed on it quite well over the past period and I am glad that Mr Consolas has also placed himself in committee sufficiently, as well as in his contribution to the effort, which will be a national effort - is to discuss the reduced rates and the way in which they become a development tool. And here we have a lot of talk to do. That's another conversation. The second part concerning ratification is an issue that is being discussed. The Vice-President of the Government was in the committee's debate and he listened very carefully to all the wings and placed on the subject. It was a good conversation in committee. So this is an extension of the law by the end of February - so at the end of the month the government should have legislated on red loans. This is a lot to talk about. I will repeat to a certain extent what has to be done with titles. I imagine the Vice-President of the Government will speak later and all the co-legislative ministers. There's a job done by Mr. Flamouraris with Mr. Liakos. It is not a specific issue. We dominate the extension until the end of February. Legislation is the formation of the Independent Credit Assessment Authority. It's the revision of the out-of-court settlement mechanism. It's a lot of things that's been going on these days, but they're not about our bill. I imagine that the Vice-President will be placed on this and that will cover this issue. The third thing that is ratified by the Act of Legislative content is accession, or else - I will repeat it - the reintegration of Strate into the pilot application for the equivalent of transport. Transport equivalent is a great story for our islands. It's an old story. It's kind of linked to VAT. It is one of the measures on island policy that should have been implemented for too many years and which has been piloted on too many islands. And when we talk about islands, it's not just the Aegean Sea. There's also the Ionian Sea. There are also islands there, and there are islands there too. There has also been a debate in the committee and an interesting opinion has been heard. The good news is that after leaving the programmes, when Parliament is legislating, ladies and gentlemen, it legislates measures relating to national policy. The transport equivalent is a national policy financed by the Public Investment Programme. It is a strategy of our country, which has the problems and the wealth of a multi-season. It's an app that was obscured. They did not believe it because panacea was VAT as a development tool, and it was not a development tool. It was a necessity for the islands, but we should see our islands otherwise. Here, on the occasion of the debate on the ratification of the legislative act, then, Saint Stratis is said to have re-entered - because he was poorly omitted to Law 4585/2018 - and it is normal that Strates be in application with the results he has, an application that has gone well. And here I will say that this measure has been swept through. The New Democracy has stated that the government has been hampering islanders with the transport equivalent. The transport equivalent is an application that now works. It also helps to move the citizens of the islands, helps many traders and many businesses to develop into the new reality. I would refer to the remarks made by the Chambers, which at the North Aegean Development Conference did not support a government effort to get out in the province and talk to society. Three hundred operators came, but they were from the operators who were to us then, in relation to VAT, extension, but also the refugee issue. They're here, we've talked. The relevant State Secretary, Mr Santorinios, has repeatedly come to the headquarters of the regions. I think, Mr Consola, that there has also been an extensive debate in your own region. The impressive and pleasant thing is that a number of proposals have been put forward so that the programme can be more honest with the State, because pilot implementation has had problems. He gave you up 70% of the return of the transports, and we were honestly answered that this cannot be done. In this sense, then, we can legislate and the contribution of everyone here is essential. So it is unfair - and here I would like all of us to think again, Mr Consola, when we make statements, such as your statement on 13 July in relation to VAT rates, that they are temporary and that they will be abolished in December, that we agree, because there is a problem for it to be extended. We must not link the refugee to VAT rates, because they have been linked here. I understand that too, but the policy of Officerial Opposition cannot be any other way in Europe than in Greece. It cannot be directed to the Council of Europe to disconnect VAT rates from the refugee, but at the same time not to evaluate and not to relate to the principles of the Council of Europe, which are principles which all the Member States of the European Union - which are members of it, and not only - agree on many things, such as the Ambassadors' Agreement and others. But we don't have to have that sort of conversation today. Let's not make any policies. I imagine and hope that the relevant committees of this House, in order that next time we do not have the ratification of an act of legislation, can discuss it in good time on this tone, with this attitude, realizing the reality and the truths, constructively, and drawing the rest of the plans. I will not take all fifteen minutes of the speech and close by saying that for islanders - tourism fortunately recovered, Mr Consola - 2016 was a critical period. And with regard to your statement at that time, that the suspension of reduced rates will trample refugees and tourism will be destroyed, I will tell you that, especially in your region, it has gone well. And thankfully. And we need to exchange views on how to do it properly. Because the northern Aegean never had the tourism that the southern Aegean has. That's another reality too. It's a lot of issues together. I would therefore very much like us not to come to the plenary next time to ratify an act of legislation, even though it was essential for the benefit of society and nothing else. And we all consent to that. And to speak to the relevant committees of this House on similar issues. Let's talk politically. But to speak constructively from now on, because in this country, with its problems, at a new time, I think we all deserve to speak more honestly. For the amendments I have to say, I have to say that the Minister has listened to me as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u5	The general rapporteur of the New Democracy, Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Pallis, who is noble and has tried to support a bill that the government, unfortunately, could prevent it from tabling at the National Representation. By her own fault she submits it to the National Representation today, since they could either be omitted or resolved in an earlier period. I want to be very clear from the beginning. Mr Pallis has raised many issues about tourism in relation to arrivals and success of the government's tourism policy. Only, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, as far as tourism is concerned, the positive sign is not recorded by the arrivals. Revenue is recorded. And here are the figures, the figures recorded by the Bank of Greece and the Institute of Tourism Research - "INSETE" - but also by other institutional actors in the country. As far as the Aegean is concerned: Unfortunately, from this step forward, let me say once again - and I hope I will not become a master of bad developments for the coming period - the numbers have not gone well in terms of arrivals, just as they have not gone well for the cruise. A lot more didn't go well in the revenues. This is because, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, you have raised a huge issue in the tourism policy of these islands, in the tourist projection of these islands. Immigration has become the obstacle to these islands. No one's questioning it. And since, ladies and gentlemen, you have supported the reduced rates of VAT and you have also referred to the Lesbos Chamber, I would like to remind you once again that the study commissioned by the Lesbos Chamber of Commerce and Taxation has been presented to the Institute of Economics and Tax Studies, which puts forward concerns about the abolition of reduced VAT rates on the islands. That's not what Manos Consolas or New Democracy say. It's an independent authority. So, there, what does it say practically? It says that the tourist product has been aggravated, the economies of scale, the small economy of the islands, and the product has become uncompetitive, as has now become uncompetitive, because of an increase in the prices of the first-ever species in the island. Furthermore, another additional parameter - let me say this - has been tabled here by the New Democracy against Coron - and has not answered the Ministry of Finance, invoked the presence of Mrs Papanatsiou who is here - I am glad that she is here - to tell us what is the benefit of the Independent Authority of Independent Revenues from this financial measure, namely the reduction of VAT rates on the islands. What's the revenue? What has he created as stock at the Independent Revenue Authority? Why was he finally abolished? We did not receive a convincing answer, because simply no government and no Minister has so far dared, ladies and gentlemen, to abolish the only development measure on our islands. And you know, in order to go to the drafting of the bill, to ratify the act of extension of the power to exclude the main residence and the other relevant issues, which are the rates and the equivalent, we are discussing today something that, as I said in my original statement, could have been prevented. Surprised, however, citizens, not only in the islands, but throughout the territory, are following this shade of government partners, Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos, from social media and from the tweets he exchanges with each other. In other words, this is not in line with the concept of the functioning of a favoured state and, above all, this function of government partners is not consistent with the conditions of the country. These refer more to other spheres and situations, which, frankly, I would not like to mention nor to deepen up. Because we are talking about a codecision even now, we are talking about a convergence, since it has a Danish Minister and MPs, and it has Members of Parliament who support the government, since it ensures them the maintenance of the parliamentary or ministerial chair. In other words, we have a slim, shadowy government majority, with Members of Parliament who have lost this social majority. It is converted overnight into a 'independent majority' and the next morning the MPs of the government party are independent. This is really something that this parliamentary assembly has never experienced before, at least until today. However, nothing bad is good. What we are seeing today is the Ark Government, unfortunately, is a simulation of what could happen with a mere analogy. You understand this electoral law that follows both to self-government and to simply proportionally what it will bring. Your concern today, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, is to have a government majority, so that you can vote for the bills you will bring to Parliament, but also make decisions to the executive. This, I repeat, is something that we will see in the future - if this law does not change - and I think very soon you will sense that the National Representation cannot walk, but whatever government, with this regulation that you have brought about. The place is also found to be in need of a stable government. It needs a government that has a serious and firm presence at national level, but also on external issues. Ladies and gentlemen, we are asking today for the two-month extension of the Katseli Act to protect the first residence. We had the opportunity to discuss these matters in Parliament as well at the joint meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. But there it was found by many of Parliament's wings that, apart from possibly characterising this extension, we also noted the logic of improvisations and burned once again that the government literally improvises only five of them on such very serious issues, which could have avoided it. And I want to ask some questions, Mr Vice President. Why have you not set up a realistic and sustainable plan that regulates these red loans for four years? Why have you not tabled a realistic plan for the protection of first residence in this House and now you are asking for an extension until you bring the plan? Why do you not realize that, when you are constantly shifting these issues into the adventurous or in the near future, all you can achieve is ultimately result in more painful solutions for those who need to protect the state today? Didn't you learn from the so-called 1915 negotiations and now move on again to painful, unnecessarily, possible institutional framework, which the people who need to get into this arrangement will not be able to get into this arrangement in the next few months, since they have not been given an incentive from the outset to be able to join this arrangement in good time? Listen, Mr Drasakis spoke a few days ago to the committee I mentioned before about the need for a new recapitalisation of the banks. Or did the Vice President think out loud when he sent a message, as your once government partner sends, or something else is the government working on? It's good to make it clear here. There is an indirect confession from the government that it has failed economic policy, to think about the possibility of the recapitalisation of banks, and I would ask the Vice-President, when he has to be placed. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been considerably delayed, and I am very afraid that the negotiation you are negotiating with the institutions does not promote anything positive for the rational management of red loans, but above all it does not promote the regulation of the first residence, while at the same time the uncertainty of the banking system is perpetuated, even after such statements by the Vice-President. Have you informed, or the committee responsible, about the draft in the context of this negotiation? With convincing arguments we have not seen the committee answer the Vice-President, the Minister or the rapporteur. Unless you have a plan and you expect to sign what the institutions give you, which you will do with great pleasure anyway. What the Vice-President said about the possibility of a new recapitalisation of the banks is related to the negotiation on red loans?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I would like to reply. Where is the phrase ‘new recapitalisation’?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u8	Minister, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u9	I'll answer. Because you call it the second time and he was here when we talked...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u10	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u11	Please, one minute to both of you! Nor does the Minister have the right to take the floor whenever he wants to interrupt, nor do you answer. To conclude, Mr Consola, and before I go to the next speaker, I will give the floor to Mr Drasakis for three minutes to answer. But you won't do what you want here. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. We want to be clear. I am pleased that Mr Drasakis wanted to speak, I had no objection to answer, but I am waiting for a convincing answer. Did Mr. Drasakis say so indirectly or directly? Let's all turn to the record, read his position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u13	Don't do personal reports all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, is the government talking about reducing the limits for the protection of first residence, which is currently EUR 180 000 for the commercial value of up to EUR 280 000 for a couple of three children? Is there an answer to this question, when there are already a hundred and thirty-five thousand applications to join the Katseli Act, to regulate debts and to protect first residence? Is there a standstill at the moment in a hundred and thirty-five thousand beneficiaries? The only ones who have tabled a comprehensive proposal for the management of red loans and, above all, red loans for the protection of the first residence are New Democracy, with a proposal tabled by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and within and outside the Parliament. For us, the pending cases must be divided into three categories. The first category is the debtors who have not noted any assets, either in the E9 or in the tax declaration or anywhere. So the first category is the ones that have no assets. The second category is the debtors with the sole asset in the main residence. In fact, in the first two categories, there is the protection and the possibility of regulation. And the third category is those of our fellow citizens, the debtors with extra assets, beyond the main residence, and these cases should be dealt with as a priority, since that is where the strategic poor payers are located. Because the Katseli Act does provide protection, but it did not have insurance, so that the system of malpractices in the common confession would be excluded, i.e. those who had the opportunity, but who did not pay. The New Democracy plan is a plan with principle, middle and end. What is the government's plan really? We have heard in committee that an overall plan will be submitted for the next period. We expect this with great interest, something that should be done earlier. I need to remind you, however, that in 2015 the Prime Minister announced that there would be a solution. In fact here, following the debate, Mr. Stagioras had tabled excerpts of the speech in the House, as well as similar assurances from all government officials in 2016 and 2017. So we will be happy to wait for this regulation and we are here to discuss it. We're early in 2019, unfortunately. We are voting for a two-month extension instead of four years and we are not dealing with the problem. To close this report, the New Democracy will vote for the regulation, vote for the two-month extension, because it gives a hope for a few more weeks to the people who want to enter this arrangement. But, Mr President, we are very briefly calling on the government to bring the institutional framework in order to resolve this major problem, which is a problem throughout the whole territory. Ladies and gentlemen, in practice, in the second part, there is an extension of the reduced rate of VAT to the five islands affected by the refugee problem: Kos, Leros, Lesvos, Samos and Chios. Obviously you would not like once again to discuss the amendment that the New Democracy tabled. Mr. Pallis referred to it. But the New Democracy proposal was without an asterisk. We have succeeded in bringing in a regulation to discuss it, as the SYRIZA rapporteur said. You didn't want to talk. Now bring in another arrangement, according to which, possibly, in the perspective of time - and I hope that we do not appear to be miserable in the future for our islands, since these islands have become a place of caging illegal immigrants, irregular immigrants, as you say - these extensions are linked to the number of those remaining in the hot spots on the five islands. In other words, these islands will have reduced rates if they agree to become the enclaves of illegal immigrants. And it is clearly mentioned in paragraph 4a, which amends Article 21 of Law 2859/2000 and is contained in Article 2 of the bill that we are debating. In accordance with the next paragraph - and I would like to note this from the Step of the National Representation - the accreditation instrument will be carried out under the supervision of a agency designated by the European Commission, since it is clear that it does not have confidence in the management of immigration. Is that true, gentlemen of the government majority? The New Democracy has a clear position. It supports the maintenance of VAT rates on the islands, on all islands as a whole and without asterisks. However, we warn against the risks arising from this provision by which you, gentlemen of the Government, retain VAT rates on the islands with the reduced VAT rates, namely the refugee. The biggest risk is that a bad phenomenon is being established on the islands, a phenomenon that you know very well. I see former ministers here, I see colleagues who have been involved, regardless of which wing they are recording their position here, but, however, you all know very well what is happening on these islands. We highlight the dangers that are consolidated with the image and at the same time give the islands an identity that they are the enclaves of migrants and refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u15	Finish, Mr. Consola.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are talking about caging on your own responsibility. There are no retreats - you know that very well - on the basis of the Europe and Turkey Agreement, but neither are asylum applications, which you have so many times committed to the National Representation. Do you work or do you not work on immigration? This is a parameter that needs to be answered today. In conclusion, I would also like to come to the third paragraph of the bill, which relates to the transport equivalent to St. Efstratios. It is something that we vote positively, but we have noted from the Step of the House many times that the transport equivalent must operate on another basis, inclusive of islanders, to groups of tourist professionals, to groups of professionals on the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Consola, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u18	In this context, I would also like to ask the Vice-President of the Government - I know his sensitivities - to see the prospect of the complete implementation of the transport equivalent, because this does not compensate for the abolition of the reduced rates of VAT on the islands, which was the only development tool that was in place and on your own fault you have abolished it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u19	At this point closes the system for the recorders. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Ioannis Drasakis, has the floor for three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u20	There have been some comments on this matter outside the House. They responded with a press release from the Ministry. Maybe Mr. Consola doesn't know, so he reacted. How's the matter? We have had a detailed debate and I think that the rapporteurs have already pointed out. No concern arises from my speech. No one scared me to raise a recapitalization issue. No one felt that such a matter was raised. Why? Because, in fact, it was a dialogue that began with the speech of the representative of the Communist Party of Greece, who, in the way he raised the issue, showed that red loans were falling to look like a gift to the banks. He said attributes: "You want to reduce red loans so that banks can lend loans to large business groups". I interrupted him to say to him: 'Small businesses to borrow, housing loans and consumer loans to be granted must be able to lend them'. So the reduction in red loans is a wider social objective. That was said. Unfortunately, there were forces outside the House and the New Democracy office that spoke of irresponsible statements. There have also been media which, for their own reasons, have risked. Therefore, Mr President, in one or two minutes I would like to read what was said in this House, so that we can at least agree with the Members who have the responsibility to legislate. It's a paragraph. I won't get too tired of you. I said four, in my view, self-evident truths. Firstly, we should not underestimate the fact that we are the country with most red loans. Does anyone disagree with that? We are the country in Europe with most red loans. They had reached 97 billion euros in 2014. Since then, their reductions have begun, but they remain high and we must reduce them. Second truth. We don't have manual solutions. What did I mean here? It's not something that with an automatic pilot, or with a simple solution you can get rid of all these loans. We need to see what is happening internationally, to see good practice, to try solutions. Take the debate now between a proposal tabled by the CFS and a proposal tabled by the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras. You see what's going on here and out with investors. That's what I meant. We must discuss every solution, see the positive, the negative, the potential risks. I take note of such a risk. The third truth in my view at least. If we do not pay attention, we can make arrangements that lead the banks to need new funds. Is that hard? One can make a regulation that requires banks to need new funds. That's a reality. What does it mean? That we should not make any arrangements leading to the need for new funds? No, but we need to realize that. This solution, for example the solution proposed by the CFSF and processed by the Treasury will require a public guarantee. We'll measure that, what consequences it has. Another solution may require new funds for the banks. The banks can find these funds in various ways, but we must be aware. And the fourth, in my opinion, is always self-evident that, unfortunately, these new funds may be called upon to put the Greek taxpayer back on. What does "possibly" mean? It means that if we assume that a bank needs capital, first he can find them from the perpetrators. For example, Eurobank promotes a project that requires new funds and tries to find them by integrating a subsidiary of Eurobank, another company in which it has a high share. This is a solution. Another solution may be to sell assets, if it is. Another solution is to increase equity. However, if these solutions do not exist to need the state, as it has done before, to put funds in or to want the state to put funds, as has happened in the past. These, ladies and gentlemen, have been addressed by me here. For me they are four positions of principle, one framework to look at the various arrangements and assess them. Finally, I repeat that any regulation must first see the social consequences. What it means is what we legislate with society. Like the issue of the first residence we will have to legislate in February. I'll say that at the end. Secondly, the budgetary consequences. Does he have any charges for the state? Does he have any charges for taxpayers? And that's what we need to figure out. And the third is the consequences for the banks' capital adequacy. Are there any consequences? Are there going to be any need for funds? How are we gonna find them? These are elements which I think anyone who has good will can agree is a framework for a rational debate on the issue of red loans. That's what they said. The most useful thing in this whole story is that it was revealed once again that certain forces, in their efforts to fight against, sacrifice seriousness and responsibility. I would also like to say the good thing, however, in my view. I think it is good that Mr Stournaras, the Bank of Greece, officially said something that should have been said a long time ago, but it has now been said. He said the hardships for the banks belong to the past. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u21	We are moving with the special speaker from the Democratic Partnership, Mr. Yiannis Koutsoukos. Come on, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I will necessarily start from what the Vice-President, Mr Drasakis, has just said. Ladies and gentlemen, when in this Chamber, as rapporteur for the Democratic Incorporation, I referred to the problems of the banks and especially the risks they face, since the government has so far shown a complete impotence to dealing with red loans and followed a policy from 2015 and after failing the banks' capital adequacy, Mr Tsakalots considered it appropriate to take the floor and denounce me, not personally but as a whole, on degrading terms, even at a personal level, that we are in danger. And I wondered the day before, listening to Mr. Drasakis in committee: Now that Mr. Drasakis says this, what Mr. Tsakalotos has to say and much more nothing more than what he has to do with it. Because Mr Tsakalotos would obviously know that the Change Movement has submitted a draft proposal for a year - and we presented it in the Senate of the House, the presence of bodies and experts - for the creation of the so-called 'bad bank', the bad bank. That's when they smuggled us. We were smuggled by the majority, and we were also smuggled into part of the opposition in general. The European Commission has then adopted this logic of creating a hybrid scheme for dealing with red loans. And just now Mr Drasakis referred to the proposal of the Bank of Greece, which seems to be being discussed by the Government, and we knew that he has rejected it and that the Financial Stability Fund is working on another proposal. Mr Vice-President, it is sometimes good that the government is in a hurry to confront, target and dismantle its political opponents, to study the proposals of those who want to help resolve a major issue, which, if we do not deal with it, will not be liquidity to move the Greek economy and, as you said, may need funds, which the taxpayers might have to pay for, as you said. Those are your words. I come now, ladies and gentlemen, slowly on today's agenda. The legislative act, which provides a solution to two major issues, that of protecting the main residence and 30% of the reduced VAT on five islands, is the result of a policy that fails to solve the country's major and acute problems over time. Because the government record about the end of the memorandum may be reproduced by media-friendly government-friendly and government-friendly, but the reality is that the major economic and social problems affecting our country have not been solved and there is no prospect of their being solved, much more involved in the government's election strategy and tactics, which is trying to shake time by creating a communication attack on the upcoming elections. The big issues are red loans - I have mentioned very briefly - the liquidity of banks and the economy in general, which, unfortunately, despite the predictions, is moving with a slight growth, despite the fact that when a dramatic decline in investment has taken place, one would expect that they will be extended. Unfortunately, however, the balance - i.e. net investment - is negative. The same problem remains with regard to the citizens' debts to the public and the insurance funds, which account for over 130 billion. And, of course, the government so far has often said about a regulation of a hundred and twenty-dollars. However, we do not see this regulation. At the same time, we are at a time when production has been imposed by excessive direct and indirect taxes, which ensue growth and the economy. These big issues could be raised by the government - since it publishes the way out of the memoranda - to have started them on a regular solution line. We can see that it is caught in an incomplete negotiation with the institutions. And that turns out to be daily. It turns out that it cannot deal with the fundamentals of the sovereignty of a State, such as, for example, the proposal for the hundred and twenty instalments, where the institutions are involved, and even though there are no risks when you make a proposal to collect public funds, to collect insurance funds and to facilitate their return to economic activity, which is currently on the margin. It turns out that this government cannot solve the question of free professionals, who owe the insurance funds and cannot receive a pension, and that it cannot deal, on an institutionally established basis, with the question of the protection of first residence and with emblematic solutions to avoid auctioning, with two months' extensions. Ladies and gentlemen, the two-month extension of the government's two-month extension to Law 3869/2010 until the end of February has been incomplete, as most banks refuse to present to the borrowers the necessary documents to bring them to the peace courts. Time has been shaken and the government has to make decisions. Minister, Mr Vice-President, sometimes opposition is creative when its history is a history of creating and solving problems. I would like to ask you to see the proposal for a law that we tabled on November 13 with the forty articles...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Kutsuko, before you go into the law proposal, you will allow me to interrupt you for an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u24	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of nineteen students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 73rd Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Keep going, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u26	See, then, our proposal of 13 November 2018 entitled ‘First package of economic recovery and social justice measures’ and study what we are talking about to address the problem of first residence. There, without populism - as SYRIZA did - and without exaggeration, we are proposing that the protection be set at 200,000 with income criteria of 15 000 for the single plus five thousand for the married and every child, with a property wall of 270,000 and a protection procedure which requires him to pay a small price. Look at the proposal and study it, since you are in a negotiation process. Because we know that you are preparing a proposal with a wall of 100,000 or 150,000 and very short of protection conditions. And possibly - let me quote you - your position in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that, if we do not solve this problem, we may go to the burden of taxpayers if the banks need new funds, it is to scare the majority Members and to vote for what you bring here. Because that is how the majority Members have learned. Four years that you govern with memos, I have never seen anyone differentiate either in an article or in one paragraph. As far as VAT is concerned on the islands is concerned, it is certain that you handed him over as a result of a defeated negotiation due to the crisis that you created in our relations with our institutions in the first half of 2015. And when you crashed, you shone in front of the upcoming disaster because the country came to the edge of the cliff, you surrendered iron bundles. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the reduced VAT on the Aegean islands was a conquest of the country that was won by Andreas Papandreou, whose hundreds of years since his birth were celebrated yesterday. And the reduced VAT on the islands, ladies and gentlemen, is not a temporary measure, a measure which creates management difficulties and which we must blow above us, as I have heard the majority rapporteur say indirectly but clearly, in theory, the defeat of the negotiation. You go, you negotiate, you lose, and then you make it a theory. This is SYRIZA's strategy. Andreas Papandreou won it because our islands have great problems. It is a development measure for the competition of the economy towards the neighbouring country, which has a lower cost to tourism, which is a social protection measure for the particular circumstances of our islands. And you delivered it! And it's not just that you delivered it. You have not been able to invoke, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, nor the decisions of the European Council and the directives allowing the countries of the European Union to have tax measures for the islands. And you are now coming with a six-month extension for the five islands, which you submit to the process of evolution of migratory flows. In other words, a policy that you have turned into favelas that is tyranting the islands and citizens, making it an economic policy, instead of distinguishing it, to see how migration is solved and to go into a permanent process involving the reduced rates in the Aegean islands. That's why we've tabled a proposal. And it is in Article 35 of this proposal. And what do we suggest? We propose, on the basis of the study carried out by the Lesbos Chamber, that a joint committee should be set up - chambers, scientists, parties - to look at the permanent aid measures - fiscal and other - of the islands. Because the Government has come here with the equivalent of transport to say that it basically compensates for this loss of reduced VAT, which has been the case - I would remind you - in the islands of the Dodecanese at first and then extended to the islands of the Cyclades. And he puts all the islands inside, but forget about St. Stratis, whom he's brought us now. Evidently someone read the list there and reminded this island, which was glorified in the period after the Civil War, with the exiled and the persecuted at that time. What political forces do we know about this? So you put Ae Stratis on and that's right. But, ladies and gentlemen, can you respond to what Mr Kegeroglu said in committee by presenting information on the transport costs of Crete? He presented that plus 50% the cost difference from Heraklion to Piraeus is either transported fruit and vegetables from Crete or transported solid goods, fuels, from Piraeus to Crete. Why is Crete excluded from the transport equivalent? The government must give a serious answer. In any case, I have said this here in Parliament before, and now I want to say it - transport equivalent does not compensate for the consumer's costs, because we do not know if he comes back to the consumer. It may reduce the cost of a company, but there is no mechanism to see if this reduction in the cost of the company is carried forward to the consumer, ladies and gentlemen. I, Vice-President, Minister, will invite you to consider very seriously the amendment that we tabled yesterday by the entire Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement to extend until the end of 2019 the protection of first residence. I have heard, Mr President, that you called on the Minister to put himself in the parliamentary amendments and said that he would not accept any of them. I would like Mr Drasakis to explain to me why this proposal to extend until the end of the year is not a reasonable proposal that enables us to conclude the dialogue between the government and the institutions and the banks so that we can find an effective framework for protecting the first home so that we do not have the slogan 'no house in the hands of a banker' as Mr Tsipras said. And if it were not for the protection of the first home, the poor and the weak, yes, we would laugh at inspections. But when the residence of the poor and the weak is at stake, no one is allowed to laugh and have fun. Ladies and gentlemen, with these we will be positive on the lasson instead of the major one we had to talk about today. Alas! We have done so consistently in many other cases. However, what I would like to say and stress, in closing my speech, ladies and gentlemen, is that these burdens that the government has accumulated in the economy and society, with a negotiation that bound it with over 3.5% by 2022, with the handover of public property, with institutional interventions that do not work for the benefit of democracy, do not change by changing only one government, namely by leaving SYRIZA and the New Democracy, because these will be a loop in the neck of the next government. These to change and gain a permanent prospect of resolution, which will unite the social forces and mobilise the country's productive forces, require national understanding and social consensus, which can only be made by changing political correlations, based on a plan such as the Change Movement has presented. And because, obviously - it is well known, we are aware of it, and the Greek citizens know it - we have entered a prolonged pre-election period, which I hope is as brief as it may be, in order not to prolong the problems, this framework of our proposals will be at the table of the third mandate that will get the Movement of Change towards those who wish to govern the country with realism but with a dream, because the country must leave the recurring deadlocks and find a lasting prospect of resolving the problems and not emblematic solutions, such as those we are discussing today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u27	The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. It is well-meaning that the government has lost what is called the 'freedom of speech'. It does, of course, and this is a dangerous one for it and the SYRIZA party is politically blind. This draft law, which actually ratifys an act of legislative substance with three beneficial articles, two extensions and an extension of relevant articles, is an attempt in the context of the process of dropping benefits and gradual prudence, on the part of the Government, of the people. In no case will we legalise such a process and a government, which is literally a strange government, which, after invasion, resaltos in small parties, seeks to maintain a formal, even legalisation. What is surprising is that the other parties of the constitutional arch - the New Democracy, the KINAL and the others - with their positive or neutral vote legalise this government, while at the same time denounce it that it has lost such legitimacy. Therefore, this contradictory behaviour is an unequivocal attitude of these parties, which essentially mock the Greek people and assist the Government of SYRIZA and the others who support it. In practice, there is talk of refugee flows. This is a misleading report, since it is well known that there is no longer a question of war in Syria. So while the United Nations estimates that 2019 will return two hundred and fifty thousand refugees, genuine refugees, to Syria, we see that the government adopts this condition for refugee flows, and it is well known that the vast majority of the guests in these centres on the islands are people who have invaded our country illegally, are illegal immigrants. We will therefore vote against this act of legislative content and this bill, because we very simply refuse to legalise this government, which, I repeat, has no popular basis, and this will prove itself in the electoral procedures that will follow. One further reason, however, is that the Members who support this government, to the less or less, have contributed to the overwhelming majority of them being assigned to the Greekity of Macedonia. At this point, I will submit to the Minutes the preliminary proposal for a referendum sent by the Golden Dawn to all the Members of the Greek Parliament without exception, due to the fact that this major national issue of the transfer of Macedonia's Greekity, by the Ambassadors' agreement, is also a major social issue, as provided for in Article 44(2) of the Constitution, subparagraphs 2 and 3. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, a hundred and twenty Members of Parliament can propose a motion to the House in order to hold a referendum, which will, if possible, be a dismantling bill, even if it has been published in the Official Journal of the Government. I would remind you that the President of the Republic has on the same day published this disgraceful draft law on the Embassy Agreement in the Official Journal of the Government. This does not cancel the possibility of a referendum, and I call on all Members, and those who voted in favour of the Embassy Agreement and those who voted against it, to endorse this motion for a referendum, so that this draft law returns to debate in the Greek Parliament and the Greek Parliament - its plenary session - decides whether this referendum will take place. I believe that those who voted in favour of the Prespecies Agreement should also move in this direction, because they are condemned many times and in general such a referendum is in the interests of society. Because this draft law, the Embassy Agreement, threatens social cohesion, and suddenly divides citizens. So the New Democracy, the Independent Greeks, the Centro Association, will have to consider this, take a position, sign, because if they do not sign up at this historic moment, they will be absent from a proposal, which is certainly expelled from the Golden Dawn and defends Macedonia's Greekity. I shall refer briefly to the visit of the Prime Minister to Turkey. Mr. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u29	Mr Aivatidis, I must remind you that I will not give you any more time. I am already in breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you are talking about a matter which is not on the agenda. However, I just want you to put in your mind to tell us about the bill. Say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u30	Aren't you watching me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u31	I'm watching you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u32	Didn't you hear what I said about the draft law, which is half a page?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u33	Good, if this is your location...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u34	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u35	No, I can break you completely...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u36	Yeah, but no cause.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u37	...by using the Rules of Procedure, because you're talking about an irrelevant subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u38	No wonder you can't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u39	I'm just pointing out the time. Otherwise, I can interrupt you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u40	Yeah, but I'm in eight minutes and it's 15 minutes a year in total. I analyzed the draft law. You're not watching me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u41	Good, since your analysis was one minute, okay, no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u42	But it's half a page. Just a minute, of course. The visit by Mr Alexis Tsipras to Turkey was done in a dual capacity: the Prime Minister and President of the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the discussions that seem to be taking place there is a very dangerous point. Turkey is attempting to be seen as similar to the issues of the reopening of the Theological School of Halki with the election of mufts in Thrace. The first issue is not a bilateral one, it is an international issue. The second is Greece's internal issue and Erdogan cannot intervene under any circumstances. This should therefore be made clear by Mr Tsipras. Mr Tsipras, who appears to be a peacemaker in the various diplomatic processes, has as a result endowment and retreat and has to deal with - diplomaticly, I mean - an Erdogan, who is typically medieval, insecure and militant. Mr Tsipras should not enter this process of dialogue and even on all the matters crucial for the country, because in those negotiations he has taken part directly or indirectly because of intrinsicity he has granted national sovereignty. So this policy is dangerous, especially when it comes to dealing with Erdogan, who has welcomed him to the white palace. By the way, I refer to the opposition of Turkey's white cells. He welcomed him to the white palace, which cost half a billion euros, when about two million Turkish citizens live with less than 3 euros a day, a palace that has a thousand rooms and rooms and two hundred and fifty are for use only by Erdogan and his family. So you realise that the large-scale Erdogan is not treated with the method followed by the government. The government should not even be involved in the whole matter discussion process. As far as Thrace is concerned, the emergence of fundamentalist leaders, such as the mufties, the masters of the Turkish consulate and the Turkish government, should be avoided, condemned by all parties and in no way any government should enter the process of this exchange because they are not similar. In conclusion, I will repeat that we will be voting against this act of legislation and the draft introduced, because both the extension of the exemption from primary liquidity, the short extension granted and the extension of the reduced VAT on certain islands are nothing but benefits for the government to appease the people and possibly in a way to buy consciences. But it is certain that this model of motivating'mastic carrot', which applies to the islands, does not work. I remind you of the violent suppression of the reactions of patriotic citizens on the islands, which the government is now attempting to prolong reduced VAT in order to appease them. As Golden Dawn, we refuse even by voting against this draft law to legitimize that government, which is what other Opposition does.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of fifty three students and students and five teachers attending the 2nd Kifisia High School. The House of Hyps welcomes. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasio Bardalis. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. The ratification of the act of legislation which we are debating, according to the Government, is allegedly facing some of the people's problems. The reality is, of course, completely different. Let's see them one by one. The first question, that of the temporary extension of the Katselis law to the end of February, is an introduction to what the government has already prepared with the bankers and the next few days will bring to Parliament, after the institutions have approved it. It is also a proof that the Memorandums, their commitments and their consequences will continue for many more decades. With the new law you are preparing, a new cycle of attack by the government and banking groups will be launched with the aim of rapidly reducing red loans. The next step will be the dissolution of the judicial protection regime in the first place. We are talking about a bar of anti-grass interventions by the current government, including the opening of auctions exclusively by electronic means, the lifting of legal protection in case of delays in instalments, summary procedures for the sale of red loans in funds and other cords, the intensity of government repression for the smooth operation of auctions and other measures. Four years now, you're doing a good job of capital. So you also undertake here to carry out the dirty work with regard to the discharge of banks from red loan burdens. Why? But because for the banks it is more than necessary for them to find warm money to fund sustainable businesses and business groups, as you say. To do this, it is necessary to open even further the way to mass auctioning of the first home, removing any obstacles that have yet to be left. You will give more tools to banks and funds to escalate extortion to the people. What you are preparing for popular families is an auction tsunami by 2021. Only in 2019 banks design forty-five thousand auctions to reach 30 thousand by the end of 2021. That is why we say this is a new round of attack on the first home and, more generally, on the property of the people's families. A large proportion of the red loans also involve free professionals, but also micro-enterprises, 68% at the expense of which the auctions and confiscations will escalate over the next period. We are talking about the self-employed who have been hit by the crisis, they have been brought to ruin and at the same time you have charged them with unbearable taxation and insurance, so that today we are talking about more than three hundred thousand of those who owe their insurers and tens of thousands of self-employed people are indebted to the banks for loans they have received and are objectively unable to repay today. Marble, however, will also be paid by workers in the systemic banks. According to reports, up to 2021 more than ten thousand bank staff redundancies are planned. In 2019 alone, more than four thousand posts plan to abolish this year the four systemic banks, in the context of a reduction in their operating costs, according to a plan that puts a bouquet in half the next three years, since the pressure to boost profitability is particularly pronounced at the expense of superfluous red loans. The reduction in jobs is combined with the sale of red loans to speculative funds, the temporary transfer of bank officials to them or to contractors, without, of course, working rights, with a short prospect of being fired. The Piraeus Bank shall inform its employees thereof. The other banks will, of course, follow. All these years, workers and the people have been bleeding for the capital support of banks and by extension of large businesses. We ask you: within these plans - there is a lack of the Vice-President of the Government, but I imagine he is listening to us and is specific the question and critical - which you have on the transfer of red loans to funds, can you say what fate the bankers currently working on this service will have and are considered to be overnumbers? Already since last Friday, the employees at Piraeus Bank have been in mobilisation and have been calling for a concrete answer. Minister, you are preparing a 'dry corset' for the first residence of the people's family. At the centre of the attack is popular residence, there are the self-employed, small businessmen and farmers. The bride will pay thousands of bankers. This policy, in fact, is a class policy, class policy in favour of the interests of banks and big capital in general. But in order to walk without vibration and with the fewer resistance, you are also needed to blackmail and threats. We do not question what you said in committee and you have made a huge effort to interpret exactly what you said in your attempt to respond to the JRC. Indeed, the situation of banks with red loans, as you said, requires radical solutions. You also said that there are no easy solutions. In practice, what you are saying is that the auctions and other measures will take place in self-employed and bank staff or, if necessary, banks may need funds, which will probably be loaded back into the people's backs. In other words, people will pay for the new recapitalisation that they might have, as you say, need. What do you say with this more simply to the people? Do you want to pay for the reorganisation of the banks and their exemption from red loans with the loss of your house or to pay out of your pocket the price of a brave recapitalisation if necessary, such as the ones that have been done in the past and have cost tens of billions of euros to the people? This is an extortion to the people. I'm not saying it's a catchy blackmail. How else can the lifting of even the elementary protection which has existed so far for the people's housing from the banks, the 'brows' of the funds? Finally, you are "mommy" in the process of meeting the needs of business groups, saying determined to do everything you need to ensure their interests at the expense of peoples. You are baptising the interests of capital nationally or socially in an effort to convince the people to adopt these objectives of capital as their own objectives. You want to make people fight for foreign interests, for foreign objectives. That's why workers shouldn't be reassured. They must put their own problems and interests ahead of themselves, strengthen solidarity and fight against auctioning and seizures, setting the real cause, which is no other than the capital strategy, which both the government and the other parties of counter-population are serving. Because the next memorial day, normality for thousands of workers, people's households and self-employed, has thousands of auctions, seizures, redundancies and at the same time a red carpet in the banking and business groups. Auctions and seizures will become the oxygen for the implementation of projects, in order to provide liquidity, facilities and a new round of lending to business groups. Here the invocation by the Minister of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises is simply the fig sheet. The measures you are preparing are not relevant to alleviating the excessively indebted people's households, protecting the first home, but are related to the restructuring of the banking system. They will further tighten the noose of extortion, leaving the weak populace households at the mercy of the banks. Income and assets criteria for the protection provided against auctions will be abolished. And here we ask you specifically: will you at least improve these minimum conditions that are now in existence or will these conditions of protection be reduced to date, even though you say that you will introduce all kinds of protection from now on with the new law you bring? We say that under no circumstances will these terms and conditions be improved. And that is what you need to answer in particular. I now come to the second point concerning and 'dealing' with the act of legislation, that of extending the reduced rates of VAT for five islands only with the refugee problem. The linking of this issue to the refugee issue is unacceptable. And we consider it unacceptable, because the financial compensation is identical to the acceptance of the European Union's dangerous reaction options, which turns the islands into a permanent place where refugees and migrants are caught, by violating their rights. This is why the JRC has taken the lead in and will continue to take the lead in the struggles for legislative initiatives for a reduced VAT rate on popular consumption throughout the Aegean islands. We have once again tabled an amendment to maintain the reduced VAT on the islands, without this being linked to the refugee but to the difficulties in the lives of the islands. What do you say on this, all of you, government and opposition? "We want it to exist," you say, "but we were forced, blackmailed in the third memorandum and then we made a compromise." Yes, sir! Let me remind you here that the third memorandum has all been passed together and that the abolition of the reduced VAT is provided for in the Treaty. Why? As you said to the committee, which you say at every opportunity and every problem, you voted for the third Memorandum because you wanted the major one, namely 'to stay Europe'. For you that was the big one. So you're staying in Europe. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u45	But you say that he entered a paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u46	Yes, he entered a paragraph, you voted for it, because for you he dominated the major. I don't think I'm paraphrasing you. The truth is, indeed, that all of you are 'Europe', but not counting on others staying on the islands. That's the reality. But the reduced rate in all the islands was and is a fair demand. When it was introduced, there was no refugee. Now you say the memos are over and we're in regularity. Don't you think? The reduced rates of VAT on the islands are a measure to reduce the consequences of large transport costs and other adverse factors which make life difficult for islanders and, if you really want to compensate for the consequences that make life difficult for islands, we invite you to accept the amendment and vote on it all. Otherwise, it turns out here that the commitments you have made remain independent of the formal expiry of the memorandum. But with this act of legislation, there is another issue. It is envisaged that the reduced VAT should be extended to the five islands for one six months at a time, but after a ministerial decision and on the additional condition that the average number of guests in the host and identification centres of each island exceeds the possibility for accommodation per island. So, what do you tell the inhabitants of these islands in practice? If you want the reduced rates of VAT to continue on your island - for the five islands we are talking about - you need to reconcile the reality of the double caging of refugees and economic migrants and more than the hosting capacity of the respective areas on your island. Finally, as far as the equivalent of transport is concerned, it is unconscious because it does not in any way compensate for the enormous losses that the inhabitants and visitors of the islands have. It does not respond to the need for islanders and the whole of the people for cheap, uninterrupted, modern ferry transport all days of the year. It does not fully meet the needs of seafarers for permanent and stable work with insurance rights and necessary organic compositions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. In the light of all the above and of the need, even with these few, for the short period, which is being dealt with by the act of legislation, we will vote 'at present' by calling on the workers, the people, not to be complacent, to fight, by putting their own interests ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u47	We continue with the special speaker from the Independent Greeks, Mr Konstantinos Katsikis. Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today on the legislative act of 31 December 2018, through which, first of all, the highly indebted households who have been unable to overcome the gross blows they have suffered during the multi-faceted economic crisis. Furthermore, this legislative act protects the arrangements for tax relief of the islands hosting refugees and immigrants, while the application of the transport equivalent to the island of Agios Efstratios, a small island, just eighteen maritime miles away from Lemnos, is extended, however, with great importance, both political and geostrategic. With regard to these three individual regulations, which are contained in the one and only article of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development, I would like to focus on the positive attitude of the majority of Parliament's parties, as expressed at the joint meeting of the relevant committees about a week ago. I would like to stress that we all have to support similar legislative proposals in favour of a fairer social policy. These are legislative initiatives, which even if they are not taken at the desired speed or do not have the desired scope of application, to be honest, are in a positive direction. We therefore need to recognise that. The Independent Greeks, moreover, as I have already said from this Step not a few times myself, remain firm in our position and we support all these legislative initiatives, which we consider to be taken for the benefit of the citizens at any time. The current arrangements in this draft law are of the opinion that they meet these criteria. Both the six-month extension of the reduced VAT scheme for the five islands and the inclusion of Stratis in the application of the transport equivalent and the extension of the protection of the first residence of the overhead households, we believe that measures are necessary and necessary, even if the extension envisaged is temporary and does not solve the existing problems. At least until the state takes measures that will definitively resolve a number of issues that have become harsh in the daily lives of the citizen, I believe that even with the interim solutions offered by this draft law, a breath is given to those Greek women and those Greeks who are struggling to carry out their obligations and struggling for tomorrow. So I'm not going to go along with feasibility tactics. I am not going to agree with sterile controversy policies, and I will not go along with reasonable refusal on everything, even without a substantial counter-proposal at the current juncture. Our support, therefore, of the current draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development, with which the legislative act on the proposal of the Katseli Law is ratified, the extension of the application of the reduced VAT rates to the islands and the extension of the transport equivalent, is for the Independent Greeks a political decision which is self-evident and socially just. It shows, of course, once again that our intention has never been a merciful and incomplete criticism. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Independent Greeks, until recently, were in conflict with SYRIZA and agreed a common policy to address the required rules of our lenders and the troika, I would like to restore to some points the truth regarding the responsibility of abolishing the reduction in VAT on the islands. I would like to tell you that if you really want us not to distort reality, we should all share this responsibility together, which may be the responsibility of you, of the colleagues of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, when in the second memorandum, which was your own political act, it was stated in the terms of the memorandum that, when the troika asked for the abolition of the reduction of VAT rates, it could also impose it, which was introduced in our own days. It is therefore appropriate to tell the Greek people that there has been the possibility of abolishing the measure of reduced rates of VAT in the Aegean islands since then, because there was a term of the second memorandum. It is good, ladies and gentlemen, to restore the truth and to be honest with the Greek people, because, at least in this respect, we have been called upon to manage what others have inherited us and for which they had already committed themselves to the lenders. In response to those who have criticised and now, but also in the past, the period of extension of the reduced rates of VAT to the islands, as I have heard comments that it is supposedly 'aspirin' without any substantial benefit, I would like to stress and stress at the moment that this proposal is not introduced in fragmentary terms, but is part of a more comprehensive political planning that is now being implemented more flexiblely than in the past, as a result of the recovery - to a large extent, I would say - of the economic sovereignty and autonomy that the country now has. The same applies to the two-month extension of protection of first residence. Through the proposed extension, borrowers will be able to submit their principal home to the peace courts by the 28th month following the submission of a proposal to settle and a draft settlement of their debts. In any case, it is well known that red loans must be categorised and the targeting of auctions must follow another logic aimed at protecting Greek households. We expect the Greek state to honour its commitments and present a comprehensive solution in the near future. Priority must be given to large loans and, in particular, to borrowers who, unfortunately, escape payment either by legal or illegal means, even though they are able to repay their debts. The strategic malicious payers must finally be separated from the economically weaker citizens, the unemployed, the low-wages and the retired, while the banking institutions must finally take on the social role they deserve, come in contact with debtors who are in the Katseli Act and move to brave 'haircuts' in order to dismantle the list of non-performing loans. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to reiterate that the Independent Greeks are voting in favour of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development, as we believe that, given the current situation, necessary solutions are being given until at least all these outstanding issues need to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u49	We're closing down with the special speaker from the Centro Association, Mr. Georgiadis. Until he comes to Stepma, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and three educational sessions from the 4th General High School of Ilioupoli (second section). Welcome to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to table a table in which all the loans are available, which clearly seems to be 47% of non-performing loans compared with the EUR 186 billion we currently have. [[At this point, the Member and I will be Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative act that we are discussing in today's sitting contains three regulations for which most of us, if not all, will stand positive, but one cannot say that they are also an excellent legislative initiative. We in the Central Association, what we see is that the SYRIZA Government also bears enormous responsibility for the delays, with the sloppyness that this issue has faced. I shall be specific: the extension of the possibility of exempting the main residence from liquidation does not solve - because we are talking about an extension and not a permanent solution - nor at all about the problem of non-performing loans, and that is also clear from the file I have tabled. The government has had four whole years at its disposal - we are talking forty-eight months - so that it can permanently solve this problem which is agitating Greek citizens, bring arrangements to settle red loans which would then very relieve the citizens very much and, of course, lead the banks, in cooperation with the other institutional supervisory authority, the Bank of Greece, so that a substantial solution can come. The truth is, of course, that the problem has not begun with you. It started in 2008, where it swept off with the first two memorials, but we now have a government that then signed two unpleasant memorials, where we have the 200 billion from Mr Varoufakis' 'infinite' negotiation, we have capital controls, and indeed - to put it in in introductorys - you managed to 'equate' what the previous PASOK and New Democracy governments did. However, in January 2015, the only thing you've done and in which you've only had enough is deferrals, some superficial adjustments of Katseli Law, a bureaucratic grid called "exit mechanism" and in which few businesses have managed to integrate and remove the confidentiality of deposits. These are the few of you who have baptised 'organization of initiatives' and that is what the Vice-President of the Government has mentioned in the committee concerned. So we have reached the point that there is a serious risk of weakness for the banks, and I am thinking of reducing non-performing loans by EUR 50 billion by the end of 2021, and that is without any damage and without any need for any additional funds. This latter concerns us very much, because in the committee responsible, the Vice-President of the Government, in response to my position, admitted that, if we do not notice it, we may make arrangements leading the banks to demand new funds. Unfortunately, these new funds may be called upon to take over by the Greek taxpayer. To say - there are also in the Minutes - that is what the Vice-President of the Government answered. It is logical that the fears of investment groups, outside and within Greece, were once again confirmed that while SYRIZA is government, there is really no financial confidence. Indicatively, the problems that have accumulated in the banks and the indifference that has occurred exclusively during your governance period are, of course, reflected in the Athens Stock Exchange, where the index of bank shares at adjusted prices from 14.532 points of January 23, 2015, takes a void dive and on 1 February 2019 was on 291,35 points, i.e. it has lost 98%. It is particularly regrettable that the only side that does not realize that non-performing loans are a great challenge for society, the economy and the banks is your Government. We have read for a special committee of legislation in a relevant publication involving four ministries. We heard about a meeting in Maximos the other day on Monday. No result, however, is seen. Since the last Thursday that the committee met almost a week without having anything newer or substantial from these meetings. We call on the government for direct initiatives, because this issue really concerns hundreds of thousands of households and businesses who are also helpless in the face of the generalised pressures on their debt arrangements and cannot wait any longer to solve the internal problems of responsibility first and then reach their own problems. We are going to the second part of the relevant MDG, to extend the reduced VAT rates to Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Leros and Kos, which is also a measure that we will support as a Union of Centres. We must, however, recall that VAT on the islands was at 13% by the end of 2014, but the SYRIZA - ANEL Government with this disastrous negotiation in the first half of 2015 and the third memorandum, which you signed, accepted without any reaction to raising this rate to 24%. I would also remind you that because of the foreign policy of SYRIZA on immigration and refugee, the inhabitants of these islands have been succumbing since 2016 to all this unbearable burden on the corresponding flows and even without infrastructure and have remained completely helpless financially. However, it is not positive that the application of the measure has depended on whether the average number of guests on each island exceeds the capacity of so-called hot spots, because this gives the impression that local communities are being blackmailed. I'm going through the third part of the draft law, MDG, which we're talking about today. For these fellow citizens, who have given lessons of humanity, the government really rather than a 'thank you', apart from VAT on a conditional basis, actually gives them little euros to the so-called transport equivalent. Tickets and fuels are the result, which is certainly not a serious answer to the dozens of problems of islands. Since the measure was fully implemented on 1 January this year for all the islands of Crete, Evia and Lefkada, the measure was organized with the participation of the Ministry of Island Policy - and I am glad, Mr Minister, that you are here and you are listening, because I have a proposal to you - almost everywhere, for example, in Kos, Aegina, in Ermoupolis, in Lero, in Mytilini, but also elsewhere - today they are celebrating Zakynthos as well - in order to have proper propaganda, advertising for transport equivalents. We believe that instead of spending as a government mission and as a Ministry so much money on such truly improper figures, in our view, it would be preferable for this money to be made available to improve the measure, such as, for example, to every household, the compensation for island costs will be taken into account for all return trips made by its members and not just for a certain number of tickets or routes, and all the rest will be "expected". And, secondly, there should also be a right for all the remaining routes of a year that has not been used to be transferred to the next year. So there is definitely a great cost of these trips that you are organizing, but you could have carried it for the benefit of the families. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that these regulations are not enough to relieve islanders of all the very big problems that exist. Nevertheless, we have also told the committee, but we will say this today, that we will support these provisions. We also expect to see immediately the government's measures on the handling of red loans - and I see Mr Ioannis Saridis, who sits on the table, who has made a proposal to you. I don't know if you're gonna hear it. It will certainly take the floor to mention it once again - since the banks really are the only instrument for financing the economy, which we expect at the end of the day to have a development path. I will say this once again by closing down: we are positive. Nevertheless, I still believe that it is a drop in the ocean, although the Vice-President in answer said: 'Better drops - a drop to bring relief, rather than a drop - a drop to the poison'. And I'll say again: we can't wait for aspirins for someone who's in intensive. We want lasting solutions that will relieve the whole society and we will be able to get out of intensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u51	Well, we will proceed as follows: the two colleagues who are first on the list, Mr Kamaeros and Mr Athanasios will speak. Then the parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has asked for the floor and, of course, the ministers, at any time. Just make a schedule for the ministers, to know who's talking. Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Consola, friend Mano and compatriot, I was in Kos two - three days ago at an event by the Hippocrates Foundation Kos, a serious international institution. There the Regional Director of the South Aegean Mr. Hatzimarkos presented the results from the tourist development of the last year, which came out of the Bank of Greece. It was diametrically contrary to his assessments of what you said. In other words, a myth that was cultivated that “departures are growing but revenues are not increasing” was abolished by the results of the Bank of Greece. Of course, I would like to discuss - and I do so where I can - the allocation of this revenue, who benefit most and who is less and at the expense of what is being done. A second myth that "you know, it was not a success of the government here, but it was an opportunityal and timely, because of the problems of neighbouring countries", and he fell from the words of Mr Hadjimarkos, the district manager, who is supported by you, from New Democracy, who said that the increase in tourist current in our country had a huge rise in the last year and that he had a record of growth in Turkey as well. So this myth here, that others should not go well for us to go, he was also shot down in the words of yours, Mr. Hatzimarku. And here comes and buttons what you have tried in the last few days to cultivate not only our region but also, on the basis of a speech I made, the last I made in plenary, when we discussed the Prespecies Agreement, which I said the most simple thing that each of us could say, that I wish we could also have an agreement with neighbour Turkey, which would have forged our borders, which you did not see on our islands, which would not create incidents between the people who want to live peacefully and naturally, that would be to the benefit of the development of both countries. And I ask you: what programme do you have for tourist development that you are being cut for tourism and say that we do not have and have? Do you think that this is a service here to security in the area that we are pursuing, which, at the end of the day, serves, in other words - why are the others more serious - the tourist development to which you have referred? Tell me, why are we also being criticised today by your party for the Prime Minister's visit to Turkey, would you not want to take steps in consultation with the neighbours, despite the difficulties that their government poses? Doesn't it serve to reduce the tension? Does it not help us to develop economic trade, something that also helps tourist development in our region? You need to make it clear what you want. Now to come to the issue of VAT on the islands. How does the VAT of the islands relate to this whole story? Although you said again about reducing tourism in the islands, about problems, and so on, we have had a terrible increase, Mr Consola, in the development of tourism in all these islands, even those with the immigration problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u53	And in the northern Aegean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u54	And in the northern Aegean, Mr. Athanasios. Look at the evidence. On the islands of the northern Aegean, despite these serious problems which are really and we must deal with - and we agree - there was an increase. So don’t try with false evidence to prove things that run counter to reality. Yes, there are problems, but not what you say that VAT created all the problems on the islands and that we have a reduction in tourism, etc. But you know what? It emerged from your speech - and from everyone's positions - that your island policy was identified by your governments - and by New Democracy and KINAL - with reduced VAT rates. That was your island policy. Can we see it for a second? Shouldn't we review it? Of course, we are all in favour of maintaining the reduced rates of VAT. I would, however, add to seeing them, rationalize them. Why, please, would you answer this: have there been development of the islands with reduced rates over the years? Was there a solution to the problems of islanders, whether they were transported either by administration or health or education, by reducing VAT rates? Was there a compensation for transport costs? How can there be? Since transport at reduced rates, ladies and gentlemen, from the islands is 24%. In the transport and where the rates are reduced, in the islands. That's the way it was before. So all of this is myths and much more, do you know that those who are on your island benefited and benefited from the consumer, the local, with the reduced rates of VAT? Were we reducing products? On the contrary, despite the reduced VAT, we have increased prices for products in all the islands, those with a reduced rate. We do something different. We want a reduced rate of VAT, we want to study it and rationalise it to be a genuine development measure and to the benefit of consumers, but we have in recent years shaped a comprehensive island policy, which looks more generally at how the islands will serve and how to remove these injustices and inequalities. Top measure in this process you know that it is the transport equivalent, which you have always said cannot be applied. And you come now and you also criticize us by saying "Why isn't Crete?" - Wait, don't rush, I think the Minister will tell us if and when Crete will be - that "you know, he doesn't compensate for VAT", that "it's not about everyone and it's about just the residents...". Wait, don't be in a hurry, and that's going to turn out. And it is another transport equivalent that has reduced passengers' fares of 40% -43%, if I am not mistaken, of 50% of goods and now of fuels, which no one imagined could reduce the price of fuel on the islands. You come here, where you alone had VAT as an island policy, and that is where you invest all your money, to criticize us for not applying it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. Mr Athanasios, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too could not comment on the systematic and admirable violation of the Rules of Procedure, especially by the President of Parliament, serving governmental purposes. I say this on the occasion of the latest inefficiencies, attempts to amend the Rules of Procedure, resulting in the Prime Minister's 'intervention' to cancel the attempt. What attempt? A pre-agreed attempt to amend the Rules of Procedure. So the President of the National Representation acted as the Prime Minister's trustee and not as an equal and equal player of the constitution. Now, with regard to the six Members who have asked for their vote to be counted on by the SYRIZA, to have the so-called declared in committee and also by the plenary: firstly, apart from the unconstitutionality, for which we will be given the opportunity to deal with another time, let us assume that it is one of the signatories here - I do not know if any of the signatories are here - that you can actually give this mandate, in principle. If in an article you disagree, as happens many times, what are you going to do? Where will you be here, in order to vote or disagree, when you have given a priori your consent to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative to vote for you? These methods, ladies and gentlemen, represent a alteration of the fundamental elements of our culture. With regard to ratification, Mr Kamaterre, if that is the case, as you say - I have heard you a moment ago - why have you abolished the reduced VAT on the islands? Since that is the case and nothing has changed, in any case, why all the producer organisations are asking for it to be maintained? Now listen to me now to see what it has for colleagues who are not from the islands and who have not been understood. The European Union, by Directive 2006/112 of the European Parliament - I read you - allows Greece to apply to the prefectures of Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Dodecanese, Cyclades and the islands of Northern Sporades, Samothraki, Thassos and Skyros lower rates of up to 30%. That is what Article 120 of the directive tells us. We must keep them in mind in order to stop this, every time so much, the fairy tale that it does not apply and it does not have a basis. Why did SYRIZA haggle it with unacceptable exceptions? What are the exceptions that he wants - and we will say about the exceptions that the legislative act makes - the directive, ladies and gentlemen? First of all, it concerns island regions, continental areas, which do not have territorial continuity or easy access to the state of the border regions. And that's not good enough. Why is it necessary to exclude these areas in the directive as well? In order for there to be more favourable arrangements for islands including VAT. This is why it is necessary as a compensatory measure because of the territorial discontinuance to allow for economies of scale and as a compensation for the measure, due to increased transport costs and to boost competitiveness. It has been said here and in committee on several occasions about the famous e-mail Hardouvelis. Hardouvelis, as Minister of Finance, supposedly with his e-mail, conspired the reduced VAT on the islands. I've said it on several occasions and I've filed the e-mail in the House. I'll testify again now. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is no mention of any reference, ladies and gentlemen, to the islands. Hardouvelis was simply negotiating - and was at the negotiating stage - the increase in VAT on hotels to be the same as the VAT on catering. And, in any case, there was absolutely no concession in this respect. With regard to the complaint, which has been said - SYRIZA's spokesman and Mr Vardalis said - the New Democracy voted for No.4334. We have explained - and we have said so many times again - that the Rules of Procedure require that the articles be put to the vote, not by a paragraph. You either vote for the entire article or you don't vote for it. So Mr Tsakalotos with the legislation, which he has brought, has had the reduction of VAT by a paragraph in an article, in the same article as whether we are going to stay in the euro area and in the euro area. So we had to choose. What were we supposed to do? We need to weigh two possibilities. I myself, after informing our President, had visited Mr Tsakalotos and told him, if this provision could be applied separately, that we could vote against this provision, by voting in favour of the others, which he has not done. So stop this story. In any case, when we were a government, ladies and gentlemen, I had the honour of being in the KYPRIX, the Governmental Council for the Management of Private Debts - twice the representative of the International Monetary Fund Paul Tomsen - called for the abolition of reduced VAT, which, of course, was not accepted by our government at that time. You and your policy-makers on the islands voted, with everything that implies. Today - to set an example only and I will come back to it - they are only in Lesvos, officially registered - not those who have not been registered - about 6,075 immigrants and refugees. But over 82% are immigrants. Here we have the following problem. I'm going to submit you a press release for a valid Mytilini newspaper. Mr Balbakakis, the commander of the Cyt Morias is currently being persecuted, ladies and gentlemen, because the biological cleansing of Moria, which is at the Cytium, is not over. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two things, Mr President, I just want to give you one. I'm done. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, he erected himself and complained that, with rain, a particular NGO had little children running around, photographing them, just to justify their existence and funding. That is what the FMC commander himself denounces, which otherwise is doing his job right. We will see, of course, what OLAF will say to us, the Anti-Fraud Agency against the interests of the European Union. I am tabling the legislative act. It says that VAT is linked to the number of refugees - migrants, who are on the islands, according to the accommodation capacity available for each FTL per island, not in whole. So, in the example of Lesbos, if today there are six thousand nine hundred justifying VAT. If they become six thousand eight hundred tomorrow, won't we have VAT? This is the case if one combines the paragraphs of Article 4(a) and paragraph 4(a). It's amazing what happened. I'm filing that, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This was done on 31 December. A little earlier, however, ladies and gentlemen, with Mr 4587/2018, which the New Democracy voted for, because he was right. If we knew what would follow with the act of legislation, it would be a problem if we voted. It was planned to feed and rent these people, especially in winter. That's the situation, and that's your policy. What I said is founded. The last thing I'm going to mention now is I don't adopt it and I want it investigated. The Minister is not here. It's what's being denounced now. It refers to reports that vulnerable groups, children, women and old people were transferred from Lesvos and Chios to mainland Greece to be forgotten. Asking questions what happens next, we don't have an answer. Apparently, they'll come back. That is your policy and, therefore, if you did not bring the amendment to the extension of the islands by means of a legislative act, but with an amendment, it would be quite different to the position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u57	It's a little different. Mr Drasakis asked for the floor. Mr. Loverdos, announced, accepts to speak after Mr. Drasakis. After Mr. Loverdos, who will follow the Vice President, Mr. Karras and Mr. Tassos will speak. Mr Santorinios will be following for a few minutes because he is obviously on the islands' agenda, otherwise he is not on the list. Mr. Kefaliannis will be followed. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my colleagues for the debate. I think it was in a positive climate. The remarks are welcome, whether or not we agree with all. And I say this in controversy, precisely with the climate, which has been broadly shaped by the debate that we had in committee. Because we have raised a few more general issues to begin with. One speaker commented that we have a recovery, but it's lean. I just want to remind you that what we lived here in Greece was not a common crisis. We had a profoundly prolonged recession, a disintegration of social services, a social crisis. Therefore, when we come out of such a crisis, having such a recovery, at 2% or more, is not quite understandable. Because it is not a given fact that this would have happened, as it has not happened in previous years. We have therefore received a country in a deadlock, at a speed, without visibility and perspective, and we have managed to change the time of things. For me, this is the important thing, without meaning that the rate does not matter, from the recession we went on a upward orbit. Since the rise in unemployment, we have gradually declined. Since the constant decline in incomes or stagnation lately, we have gone through restoring the minimum wage and more widely we have and will also have a greater return on income in the future. So we are now in a position to design the future. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] I hear the theory of the spring, that it should - because we have had a great deal of recession, the economy and we have, like the spring, an escalation in growth and investment. That would probably be if we had a demand crisis. In other words, if the demand had just declined and then increased demand, that would be expressed in this way, described by the spring theory, as it is said. Here we were destroying the productive fabric, and before the crisis we had a productive model that was not viable. We therefore want more growth, but we want, above all, sustainable growth with economic, ecological and social dimensions and fair growth. The prospects, therefore, from now on, will depend mainly on the rate of change, on the pace of transition to the new model. The second point I would like to make is that if a conclusion is reached in recent years from the type of opposition followed mainly by Civic Opposition, the disasters were disproved: it would not close the first assessment, but it was closed. It would not close the second assessment, which at the time had a tension with the International Fund, but closed. "We will not get out of the Memorandum, we will have a fourth Memorandum," but they have been denied. "The pensions will be cut, but not cut. "We don't go out on the markets," we went out. "You got out, but with a five-year bond only," however, we will also go out with a longer bond. In this sense, this way can be continued, but it leads to a denial, as I have said, and the ridicule of this way of thinking. I hear the same thing now: 'We will not have protection of the first home, millions of thousands of auctions will come'. Patience, within the month the proposal for a law will come, there will be a new plan, a protection system, we will have the opportunity to discuss it. Then we'll discuss all this in detail. I shall refer to a few things now. First of all, I begin with the proposal, Mr Koutsoukos' amendment to extend the law, not until the end of the month, but until the end of the year, because there were some instances that banks did not give the information to borrowers to submit their papers so that they could enter the Katseli law. I suggest we wait. If you want, keep the amendment, see the draft law, if it does not cover it, to discuss it then. We will try to provide for this provision in the draft law. That is, if anyone went to the bank, had all his papers and simply did not have time to appeal to the law, because, under the bank's responsibility, no paper was given to him, there will be a formula to cover these people, if they exist. I therefore agree with the point - it had also been made in the committee, but with regard to how to deal with it, we would like there to be no extension of the Katseli Act, but there should be the new plan. We are working so that this will come to a debate in the House in February. On whether there will be protection or better protection, I would like to say to you today - because if I go into detail, an unreserved debate will be opened and without the responsibility of the final position - what I would say is that firstly, there will be protection of the first place. Secondly, we seek the instalment paid by borrowers to be drastically smaller, as appropriate, in order to facilitate the provision of loans. Thirdly, we are seeking to extend protection to categories of borrowers, which are not currently included, and this is a matter. We do not hide it that the scope and the others are being discussed, but certainly some accusations, such as small traders and others, will be included. We will therefore have a system with several positive elements, leading to substantial solutions and quickly for both borrowers and all involved. I repeat, however, that we will have the opportunity to discuss this in detail. The second point, which was discussed, by the way, is the development of red loans. I heard that Mr Georgiadis also tabled a table showing - if I understood correctly - today's picture. And I also heard him say that red loans were not created today, were created from 2008 onwards. That's right. I would suggest instead of the table showing where red loans are today to see the table showing the evolution of red loans. If we see this table published by the Bank of Greece on its website, then we will find that we have had a lasting increase in red loans, the mountain was created between 2011 and 2013, 2014. On 31-12-2014 we had reached 97 billion, and since then we have started a process of reducing them. Therefore, the loans were created before this government came to power, the mountain of loans I mean, the big stock. Any reduction of them is the result of the initiatives taken by this government. Just the government? I now come to a second point, which may be a misunderstanding. The targeting for the reduction of loans was not a government decision, it was no government law, a decision. Targeting was established by the Bank of Greece in cooperation with the European institutions and banks. And I must say that the targeting has so far been respected, that is, what has been agreed to reduce red loans, which is why we also have a reduction. What has been going on for a few months, however, is the need to speed up this reduction. In this context, a communication also came out of the Ministry of Finance's Press Office, which gives this basic information, which the representatives of the New Democracy in particular, and in particular, not as far as they are concerned. They have a look of prosecutors, as if they suddenly came from Mars, and they find that we had red loans, without saying anything about the history of the problem, and without saying anything about the efforts made at that time, without yielding any results. Four business loans were settled by 2014. Therefore, we need to be modest in certain matters and, in any case, recognition of reality. The second issue concerns the situation of the banks. What has happened to the banks in recent years and in particular in recent months has been in a positive direction. I would remind you: first of all, an increase in deposits. Last year we had an increase in deposits - if I remember the numbers - 15 billion euros. It is not a small increase, and everyone recognises that this increase hides within it and that it is a return to money from those who claimed it outside the banking system. Secondly, a reduction in red loans, the one we had. Thirdly, a reduction in the Bank's dependence on the European Central Bank's lending, the well-known ELA. Fourthly, improving market access conditions, which will now enable the banks to come out in some forms as well. Improving both the interest rates and the conditions for financing the economy. So all this philology that develops at all, we see that it does not have an objective basis today and needs an effort. I have heard here as an excuse that people rightly react with panic because he remembers the old ones. All right, what do we MPs do? Do we feed and premium and encourage this climate when it is not based on real events? Because we cannot discuss with openness the problems, because there is progress, but the legacy of the crisis in many areas is with us. At least I can't get into a logic to hide the truth. Because the hidden truth is more dangerous than the truth when you say it and in any case, here we are, if there is reason, explaining them once and twice and twice and three times. The last point, with which I wish to finish, is that despite this improvement, because of the red loans and the other problems that have arisen in the economy in general and especially in the financing system, there is a financial gap which cannot today be covered by the banking system. That is precisely why, from this Step and almost three years ago, I had again used a term that was the cause of a great philology. I had spoken about the need for a parallel - to say it now, alternative or complementary - financial system. What did I mean then? A series of complementary instruments, with which we will deal, try to mitigate or solve, to respond to this financial gap. Now, three years later, we can see that this is being created. The Ministry of Economy has created a series of projects, which most of them are not charged via the banks. Together with the European Investment Bank we have created a package of investment funds, which already operate and are already investing in innovative enterprises and other companies that have development. Yesterday the fund - which is a public company, as you know - made an open invitation, where it also announces a series of new instruments - investment funds. Let me briefly mention this because it is an information which the Members might not have had the opportunity to find. We are therefore creating, firstly, a series of funds which come to cover the problem of small and medium-sized enterprises. Large companies can get money from either banks or the stock exchange - if they are listed - or by issuing bonds. The small and medium-sized enterprises cannot do at least two of them. It cannot be on the stock exchange, it cannot issue bonds and with banks the situation remains sometimes difficult. So what these funds will do is enable small and medium-sized enterprises to issue bonds, which will buy these funds on certain terms and at some interest rate, of course, which must be attractive. The other basic thing we do in this way is that we are energising private resources. In other words, we have some public resources, but the funds will only be created if there are equivalent private resources. The second group of funds is called 'Return'. They are funds, which will invest exclusively in companies, which are in a restructuring phase. In other words, we had a problematic or highly indebted business. But she has arranged her loans. It has an operational plan, which promises a positive outlook. But she lacks capital, not credit. There, therefore, these funds can contribute capital - participating, it is said - to these businesses, and so help to have a wave of well-prepared businesses, which have the conditions, to have a second chance. The third fund is called 'Made in Greece'. That's 50 million. It will give capital to enterprises that want to build - what the experts say - the Greek mark and extend it internationally. We are mostly talking about extroverts, innovative businesses, which I think deserves attention. Another fund with 50 million is called it - because all this is designed by the TANEO, as I said in his group in the context of the broader policy, which we have - fourth industrial revolution. It is a fund that we want to start finding and investing and strengthening businesses, which are either new and have a new idea, promising or in development, and are in areas identified with robotics, with automation, with digital actions and others, which are precisely linked to this technological wave, which many people live and write about and talk about. Of course, it's not just those tools. There is an Infrastructure Fund, which will start to operate today, which means that low-priced loans will be granted by banks to finance development projects, public or private, small infrastructure projects, electricity, energy upgrades, garbage, renovations of all forms and other projects. Of course, as I have said, the Development Bank bill, which will inherit all these instruments, will soon come along in more permanent strategies and we believe that this financial gap will be largely covered in this way. Finally, there are, of course, the ESDP programmes. What I said is outside these programmes. There, among other things, there is a programme that strengthens small tourist units. That is where we had an impressive offer of a large number of proposals that go beyond the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u59	Three times up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u60	Yeah. So the Ministry is in a direction to increase the budget. I have spoken with some of my colleagues in the margins of this debate. I see there is a wider consensus in this direction. Of course, perhaps we will not be able to cover all the proposals, because there is an issue of the allocation of funds. At the same time, we will also increase the budget in actions and programmes aimed at industry or other sectors of the economy. Of course, we are also preparing a set of tools for the rural economy. In conclusion, I said on Mr Koutsou's amendment that we do not accept it, not because we disagree with the reason, which is causing its statement, namely the problem, but with the solution. We believe that we will be ready to have the new framework and will also cover these cases. There is an amendment by Mr Kontonis, which concerns Zakynthos and the consequences of the earthquakes and calls for a slight extension. And this, since the House agrees, we will be accepting it. I say this because we agreed in committee to avoid tabling amendments, but I think that this is an exception which, with your consent, we can adopt. I put these reports in the Minutes, which I made in the funds and in the press release.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis. Mr Loverdos has the floor for twelve minutes. Immediately afterwards, it's Mr. Karras and Mr. Tassos and we're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, thank you and I ask you, as a parliamentary representative, to allow me, before entering the agenda, to make a reference to the Prime Minister's visit to Turkey for a few minutes. Starting, I say, ladies and gentlemen, that top-level visits between Greek and Turkish are positive - I do not think there is a serious human being in the National Representation, which supports the opposite - only if they are well prepared. I believe that it is remarked that the Turkish President's visit to Greece at the end of 2017 was not sufficiently prepared and was an example. This visit by Mr Tsipras to Ankara and Constantinople began negatively, with Turkey's responsibility, with the announcement of the eight Turkish officers, while the Prime Minister was traveling, but also with the official unilateral announcement of the agenda of the talks on the part of President Erdogan's spokesman, where on the agenda, issues were included in a stricken manner, such as the islands, say, or issues in breach of the Treaty of Losania - the reference to minorities, Turkish and so on. - and at the same time increased national airspace breaches. After these warning Turkish shots, the two leaders met for over two and a half hours by themselves, without partners, and then gave the two separate monologues, as we had the opportunity to see. Rightly, rightly, we are asking ourselves: Did they come from this two-and-a-half-hour contact and talks of decisions? Have commitments been made and on what issues? Obviously, the Turkish President's infringement of the Treaty of Losan cannot be accepted on the Greek side. Obviously, he has no right to moral, legal, political, to link an issue of rights, such as the reopening of the Halki School, to issues relating to the Greek internal legal order, namely who will have judges here. The mofts, he says, have legal powers. Recently, we have had the opportunity, with a huge majority in this House, to vote on issues relating to their judicial function. Is it possible to indicate to us how we are going to manifest our judicial bodies? We have another way of highlighting the institutions that give justice. Neither do we have any suggestions from another state. These are unacceptable. Have there been answers from the Greek Prime Minister and what? We are wondering, what the question of the prolongation of the officers said, apart from the fact that they are decisions by Greek Justice, whether they are not extradited and then granted asylum? These must be clarified. And it must also be clarified by the Step of the House on what is said in the media, in an absurd and irresponsible way, that a telephone possibility has finally been established to avoid crises between the two leaders. It's good they've said it again. But I remember Mr. Tsipras having contacted Mr. Erdogan two years ago in the attempted coup and I remember very well as the Deputy Minister or Minister and Prime Minister Simitis and Prime Minister Papandreou, but also as a Member of Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis communicating with the head of the Turkish state. Incidentally, on all these leaders, the leader from there was President Erdogan, because he is long-dated as President. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential now that the Prime Minister returns to inform the parties and the people. He'll choose the level himself. Could be a press conference he'll give here. However, we also have three institutional levels of information, the National Council for Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and, if he judges it, the political leaders. I do not think that it would have resorted to this instrument, I say it because it exists as an institutional possibility, and I do not prefer it. But the other three things I have said are, I think, politically and institutionally necessary. Before placing myself on the contents of the draft law: I do not remember who the Vice-President of the Government made a reference to a poor economic recovery. He said, "Why do you say that?" And he was critical of it. It is wrong to critically address these kinds of remarks, because the country is now in need of a shocking rate of growth and a repetition at a rapid pace, so that it can cope with the other commitments it has. The criticism of a low recovery is reasonable and serious, and does it have to accept it and be able to see, in addition to being faced with crises, such as banks, if the issues of red loans are not regulated, in what other way as the Vice-President of the Government, which supervises the finance ministers, can Greece proceed to these necessary, so-called growth rates? So we are discussing today, ladies and gentlemen, a draft law that ratifys an act of legislation which, among other things, provides for the extension of the PASOK law, as we say, to protect the first home. Look, many times they are attributed to negative legislative initiatives, which were necessary. As far as positive measures are concerned, the name of the party, which has taken the initiative, is avoided. That's a PASOK law. In the face of the crisis, in the first years with you all across, opponents and enemies, we have also taken very positive measures. I am referring to VAT on medicines, the rooms of tourism, and of course I am referring to the protection of homes. You're coming to extend this for two months until the end of February. Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Kegeroglu have demonstrated to you that this two-month period of the act of legislation expires, ends. It's over now at the end of the month running. The banks, as the two colleagues have told you, do not help the debtors. They do not receive the necessary certificates to benefit from the current regulation - our own - of the PASOK, which is part of this protection framework. The Vice-President did not answer that question. That is, however, the subject that comes today in Parliament, between three issues, which I shall be addressing below. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, we made a critical speech here on the so-called parliamentary culture, a change in the Rules of Procedure, while actions are taking, acts, real parliamentary decline activities, and we strongly criticised the government and the President of Parliament. Here on today's issues - all three - our parliamentary group and our President have tabled concrete proposals for legislation. These legislative proposals have never been discussed and they are courageous, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that there should be a process of revelation of the Constitution, in order to improve the secret functions, parliamentary activities, in general the institutions of the state and their functions, among other things, on the subject of the Parliament, to violate the Constitution openly, unequivocally, when it requires the President of Parliament once a month to discuss proposals for legislation here. Is it not hypocrisy - hypocrisy on your part, not ours - to propose the popular legislative initiative together? In other words, should we discuss proposals of laws, which will give citizens the initiative for them and proposals for parliamentary groups to be on the sidelines for four years? It's a mock, anyway. You tell us to extend the institution of the people's legislative initiative, because the opposition of this kind of legislative initiative is, to take it to the citizens, to leave the government as an exclusive privilege, we say yes, and we think about it and ignore the proposals of the law of whole parliamentary groups. One of them has to do with the PASOK for the protection of first residence, which, since you are not discussing it, was brought to you by Mr Koutsoukos as an amendment. You say it's rejected. But we did not want the amendment that we tabled, which gives more time to debtors, to violate your negotiations and to demagogue the citizens who are'strained' and to say what good people we are, vote on us. We were meant to be operational: the two-month period has run out and passed fruitlessly. The Minister, the Vice-President, was not right a moment ago, who said that some benefited. No one is taking advantage, because the banks are being blocked. We're telling you it's going longer, it's going a year. Don't you want a year? Six months. I would like to make an amendment to our amendment. No, nothing. It's just rejected. Let us see now, by the end of February, what will have arisen in order to legitimise these things, which the Minister said today, were recorded in the Minutes and some people heard them. However, because he said about the increase in red loans, I re-establish a table that has updated data on housing loans for global loans, on red loans, on which I had tabled a 2019 budget, which we discussed in December. From this table, we also had an increase in housing loans, since you won the elections to date, of 9.1%, and the numbering and registration took place until September 2018, but also in the total of loans to the red loans we had an increase of 3.2%. I repeat it in the Minutes, as my colleague, Mr Koutsoukos, had tabled a corresponding table in the debate on the budget 2019. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Madam Undersecretary, you are here, one of the issues on which we have also taken a legislative initiative is the one hundred and twenty instalments. I remember how contemptuously you dealt with us in this House when, on the occasion of the budget, I asked you the relevant question, what is going on in this regard? And I asked you this, with my experience as a politician, but also a fighting daily lawyer, who I see about the contributions, what about the tax debts. I also see how banning even sales from non-existence of regulations are. On the issue of one hundred and twenty doses you have been contemptuous and personally contemptuous. Your "no" was monolithic and with our pressure you took the floor. Perhaps you would have had the opportunity today to tell us two words, but without them, Madam Secretary, in addition to unrealistic politics, there is also a hard stand for your social and personal attitude. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, with your permission, I am closing down on two other issues, because I do not have much time, although I wanted to talk about other things. Transport equivalent. It is practically legislative, which we are dominating today. Mr Kegeroglu has made repeated efforts as a parliamentarian of Crete...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u63	I've answered it in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u64	Don't answer it again then. You're out of progress, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u65	How many times are we gonna answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u66	Minister, because you don't sound, you'll get after the word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u67	However, you are far beyond progress, Minister. What am I supposed to do? It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Loverdo, don't open a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u69	He asks man, with the evidence he quotes, why was Crete excluded? Mr Kouvelis does not come to answer him and while Mr Kouvelis does not come to answer him, he convenees a meeting between your own Members and Mr Danellis - take him to your parliamentary group to be quiet! - and you don't invite the other parties to the House, not to your office at the Ministry. If he were in your office at the Ministry, I would have no objection, whatever you want to do, you set the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u70	It's not about Mr. Kouvelis. It's my business.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u71	Mr Minister, please ask the floor for a minute, if you will, for a moment, to be present and answer. But let the process be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u72	He took this initiative, bypassing us. That's purely customerism. If you were parliamentaryly correct, we do not claim exclusive - but also our own initiative, since the Minister does not answer the topical questions, at least this meeting should extend it to the other political parties. My choice is a phrase by the current Prime Minister, a little more Prime Minister: 'We have screwed up'. This phrase came out after your referendum, which you welcomed, to President Olad at the time. It's monumental BBC documentary. I beg all Greeks and all Greek women, who hear us, to see it. It's online with easy access. To say, after everything you've done in your country, "we've screwed up" is the confession of how disastrous you have been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Because I know you're also going to the cutting of the basketball group MPs' pie...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u74	We're waiting for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u75	I don't know if I'm gonna catch up with you, but a piece cut off for me as your partner. Minister, you have the floor. I would ask that there should be no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u76	No, I want to make some clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u77	There's no debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u78	In any case, I will say the rest in my place, but I will make some necessary clarifications. Mr Loverdo, firstly, it's not Mr. Kouvelli, it's about me personally. The initiative, as you know, of the transport equivalent belongs to my portfolio.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u79	I remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u80	Yes, I've answered Mr. Kegeroglu exactly to that question. How many times do I have to answer the same question to a timely question? I don't know how many you think I should do it. Secondly, yes, honourable Members have asked me a corresponding question. I invited them and informed them. Where's your problem? To inform other Members, besides Mr Kegeroglou? Because Mr. Kegeroglu I've informed him in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u82	Mr. President, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Loverdo, please, don't start. The Minister will have to answer after that. There was nothing on personal grounds. I think you were clear from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u84	There's obviously no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u85	You only have a minute, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u86	It's a lot, Mr. President. I have here Mr. Kegeroglu's announcement. You have the absolute right to see those Members you want and good to see MPs, especially your own party. But Mr Kuvelis' answer that the problem will be solved through this meeting we find it absolutely wrong. Mr. Kuveli, I'm not talking about you. I told you there was a statement from Mr. Kegeroglu. I shall submit it to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u87	It's in my portfolio.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u88	That's the Minister. His announcement that instead of timely questions, we will resolve the problem with the meetings, is a parliamentary mistake. And secondly, if you choose it as a method, you should call on the other parties in opposition. That's what I told you. I didn't tell you anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u89	It's clear. Mr. Karras from the Democratic Association has the floor for seven minutes. Immediately after that, Mr. Tassos followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Kefaloyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, the Act of Legislative Content, which is being attempted and sought today, is a tripartite one, but I will only confine myself to this issue of extending the law on the protection of first residence for a two-month period. Indeed, a debate is taking place in the House, and it has also evolved in the committee on this matter. Mr Drasakis, the Vice-President, appeared earlier and attempted to justify the government's policy to date, saying it was a reduction in red loans and an increase in protection. Because I have been following this since the first day I entered the House, I have to attempt a historic regression and try to make a proper and objective criticism. So I start: November 2015, a proposal from the SYRIZA Government - ANEL was passed to amend the Law on the Protection of the Insolvency of Natural Persons. What did it work? He increased the number of peacekeepers and increased the number of secretaries. It is a good thing, but it did not bring the desired result. Whilst the speeding up of the trials was expected, this could not be achieved and the trials did. The evidence is well known. There has been a large number of outstandings, which, according to a previous press report, are thirty - six thousand four hundred remaining applications in the pacifist courts to protect the first home. So the two-month period given is enough? Oh, no! Is there enough of the judicial means available, even for the future? Oh, no. The courts cannot deal with this matter. What, then, did the November 2015 amendment succeed? The increase in the number of outstandings and the increase in the number of red loans, not only in the number but also in the volume of debts. Do you know what it means to remain pending cases, which are three or four years old in the courts and, possibly, because of the strict criteria, according to the three quarters, are rejected? What does that mean? That in the interim they are charged with interest, which will be charged afterward. Today they do not appear in the capital and interest due. These will be charged as soon as the liquidation takes place, so that homes can be taken to the auction. The government has not given us any convincing answers so far about any plans that it has been discussing with the institutions and with the banks. But did it give us a clear picture that it attempts to protect the first home? Oh, no. And I want to be clearer. In the middle of the year, the government produced the concept of strategic malpractice and gave this title to all Greeks, in essence, who have received a loan. Reminding the Americans, Mr Papadimitriou, who came to the House and told us - there are in the Minutes, Mr President, my answers to questions on timely terms - that the guarantors are prosperous, we do not need to protect them and that the borrowers are also prosperous in most cases and want to abuse the provisions of the law and avoid payment to the banks. So that is what Mr Papadimitriou told us, with his American perception, of course. Well, be the man in America or I don't know where he is. But what is the consequence today? Mr. Drasakis, the Deputy Prime Minister, is coming. I in the committee called a Drasakis law now, the amendments it made to Law 4569 in the summer of 2018 for borrowers and gave the bank the banner. Do you know that, gentlemen? He gave the banks a cloak, because while he claims that he improved the conditions for the protection of borrowers, he finally tightened them up and rejected the applications, because there is a card missing from the Bank, or there is a certificate from the parish priest. I'm going to be tough on this one today. That is how they are rejected unfoundedly. So Mr. Drasakis comes in with his law that he will protect in the future and tells us: Do you know what? Gentlemen bankers! Charge interest for late payment to those who reject their applications and instead of the contractual interest provided by the PASOK Act in 2010, increases the annual interest by six points. Put on the years when justice has been delayed, which you have not succeeded in giving the justice rendering, put on what's come out, pull out the tumor. Tomorrow, these loans will be transferred to the funds and will be transferred to increased, double. Within the four years of SYRIZA governance - ANEL doubled the debts. The houses are going out in the auction. They'll have fun with the funds. The bankers are gonna have a party. And today, with the amendment we tabled with Mr Kutsuko, we are calling for the protection of first residence to be extended so that the courts can take decisions, since you have failed to speed up, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the efficiency of justice. You say to us: 'No, we'll bring a law'. But in this law, during the leaks, it is reported that all Greeks became strategic mispaid. This is being cultivated today by the financial press and by the banks. Therefore, they do not seek to resolve the problem of red loans, but seek to accumulate debts so that they can indirectly survive at the expense of families, the banking system. Have you studied this point, gentlemen of the government? Do you know that you're trying to save the banks in this way? Which banks? Those recapitalised in November, December 2015 and in a week in which their share lost 98% of its value from your bad policies? Thirty minutes were three within a week. The registered shares of thirty minutes have become three minutes. Then you made the package of ten shares to restore 30 minutes to the nominal value. Today the banks have no funds. You are trying to avoid the recapitalisation of banks with red loans to the families of natural persons. That is the only truth we have to say, that is the truth that needs to be heard and everything else is from the evil one. So take a brave initiative. We are willing, we have tabled a draft law completely to address this issue and not the one known: 'We will take into account, Mr Koutsoukos, your proposal...' - Mr Drasakis says - 'but if it does not fall within our framework...' - which will never be included, because it is now foreseeable - '...we will discuss what we are going to do'. You know what? You have folded the economy, because when the family has nothing to eat, when the family leader cannot stand, the economy does not work, the cycle does not multiply, there are no investments, there is nothing to sit and we are talking about today, February 2019, issues from the outset today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u92	I am not in favour of the institutions, but the institutions have given you the opportunity with the recapitalisation of the banks in 2015 and have made you the condition to solve the problem of red loans and you could then benefit both society and the families and solve it. But we've been talking all along. I don't want to say anything but a word. The word'success' will be scored, ending, Mr President, as a failure of economic policy, as a failure of housing policy. I'll put that word in closing my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Tassos of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. I think there is no better proof of what the government's role in our region is than the US Ministry of Foreign Affairs' comprehensive report, from which features I will mention only one sentence: "Greece is a dedicated partner - 'crick' the people say so - to the promotion of the US's interests inside and outside Greece. This is the independent and sovereign Greece. As signifiers, then, of the imperialists - NATO, the United States, the European Union - in our region you are serving, of course, by assisting other urban parties - you are not alone - a rotten system that considers all goods for profit. And you are applying a barbaric policy on the refugee - immigration issue, turning the victims of your imperialist interventions and wars, and your imperialist peace first into cheap labour. And after you took a million, the European Union took a million, those who needed as cheap labour - regardless of whether they were refugees or immigrants or illegal immigrants - as long as they were cheap and also had some good skills and, in any case, a good level - now you don't need others. And therefore, you treat them a little more like mortals. The most lite approach is to call them 'lathromatic immigrants', so you get it over with. And what do you do extra? Connect the maintenance for a period of six months of the reduced VAT and their caging in the five islands, Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Leros and Kos. And you say to the people 'if you want to have reduced VAT, accept them and the problems that are created' and you also say that if the refugee - immigration - disappears, the reasons why reduced VAT was imposed will disappear. We know, you know that the reduced VAT was imposed after many struggles, the head of the JRC, as a compensatory measure to the increased cost of living and transportation on the islands. With its link to the refugee situation, you legalise the European Union's dangerous and reactionary choices that turn the islands into permanent places for the caging of refugees and immigrants. The JRC has denounced the European Union-Turkey Agreement on the creation of hot spots against the consent of all urban parties and has called on islanders to rise up, combat the action of reactionary right-wing, racist and fascist forces and firmly express their solidarity with refugees and migrants, who are the first thing they are asking for, and for this reason they are demonstrating. A week ago I was in Samos - and tomorrow I will be there again - and I saw with my eyes the demonstration made by refugees and immigrants and their request was to be detached from the islands. In the context of this thirteen clubs and bodies of Samos, the Samos Chamber, Samos Chamber of Labour Center, Samos Prefecture Department, Samos Commercial Association, Charlovassos Trade Association, Samos Bar Association, Samos Medical Association, Samos Dentistry and Entertainment Association, Samos Hotel Association, Ikaria and Fortress Association, decided unanimously: "The closure of the hot spot and the detachment of refugees and migrants from the island and the country is the only solution to the problem that these people have in the area. They always express their solidarity with refugees and immigrants, who are the victims of the imperialist interventions of other countries and organisations that rip them out of their homelands and their homes for the interests of the powerful. They also say: "The government systematically mocks us, mocks us and indifferents us about the humanitarian crime that is tolerated on our island. It has a huge responsibility, like anyone else who supports its choices and this policy, for the agreement it has signed with Turkey and the European Union which leads to these people being caging on our island, for impoverished, for being late in a city, on an island with many problems, with serious consequences for local society. The Saudi people over the years have lifted up and lifted the burden of the refugee and stand in solidarity with these people, who are victims of the military interventions and economic exploitation in their countries, uprooted from their homes and their homes, for the profits of the powerful who create thousands of victims, poverty, wars and refugee. We no longer tolerate people living in mud, cold, rain, with rodents, vulnerable to diseases and hardships. We always express our solidarity and sympathy to these people. We condemn and demand that the hot spot be closed in Samos and the other islands, that no new hot spot be created in Samos, that refugees and immigrants be decapitated from the island, with the priority of the patients, the vulnerable groups and, finally, that asylum services strip the refugees who have been given asylum and despite their will and remain hostages on the island. To be transferred to the continent in centres with human conditions and from where they wish. Because that is what they are entitled to under international law. To transfer asylum services from the island to mainland Greece. In Samos, keep only a small reception, recording, identification and primary care area, where they will stay for a short period of time until a health certificate is issued. To abolish the agreement between the Government, the European Union and Turkey, which entangles these people on our islands." On the basis of the demands of these thirteen bodies, a total strike of 7 February has been declared in Lesvos and Chios on Thursday. The Pansamian strike is supported by the Regional Unit of Samos, the Municipality of Samos, the Sacred Metropolis of Samos, Ikaria and Fornas. In the strike, the management board of the Association of Workers of the General Hospital of Samos decided unanimously. Call for participation in the strike is addressed by the Association of PPC Technical Groups - KEE, Samos Women's Mytilians Association. Also, the mobilization involves the Pan-Samian Peace Commission, the Ikaria-Forens Building Union, the Ikaria-Forens Hotel Association and the Samos-Karlovassos Pensioners Association. The Mayor of Ikaria Stelios Stamoulos has expressed his support for the strike mobilisation. It is worth noting, of course, that at the moment at the hot spot in Samos lives three thousand six hundred seventy-seven people, when their capacity is only sixty-eight people. On this basis, we have tabled an amendment for which the prestigious Vice-President of the Government did not even bother to tell us whether he accepted it. Nothing. Not even mentioned the permanent reintroduction of VAT to the Aegean islands, all Aegean islands, and its complete decoupling from the refugee. Also, a request from the inhabitants of the islands is not only to reintroduce the reduced VAT by 30%, but to be made by 50% and, as I said, to apply to all the Aegean islands and also to abolish the consumption of people's goods and fuels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Before taking the floor, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr.Kefaloyannis, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, sixteen students and students and two educational sessions from the 8th High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kefaliannis, you have 12 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to the bills and topical issues, I should like to make a reference - and it is a good time that he has just entered the Chamber - to a position I have heard from Mr Cameroon. In his attempt to justify the phrase that he said about the Treaty of Ambassadors also exists in the Dodecanese, I hope he said something that he was unacceptable to us: I wish there was a treaty that determines the borders of our country with Turkey.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u97	I can't talk about answering you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Colleague, it's registered in the Minutes. And it is good to make a remedial statement, because what has been heard is, as I told you, wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u99	Opinion on the proposal for
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u100	Our opinion? Is there not a treaty that clearly defines the borders of our country with Turkey?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u101	Don't open a dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u102	It is your opinion that you understood this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u103	It is a good thing to clarify it, Mr Colleague, because misunderstandings are being made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Kamaterre, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u105	I would like the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u106	You'll get the floor later. There's no matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u107	Of course, I would like you, Mr Kamaterre, to have the floor on personal grounds because I did not add or remove any of your words - you said: 'I wish there were a treaty setting out the borders of our country with Turkey'. There are conditions. These conditions are unnegotiable. And I think there is no other interpretation in this matter. I come to what the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, said, said, "We received a recession and went to development." Let me remind you that in 2014, ladies and gentlemen, we had returned to growth. If these four years were not mediated by SYRIZA, according to the figures presented by the Bank of Greece and, of course, the European institutions with which you are involved, we would in fact have recovered about 18% of the 25% lost as regards Gross National Product. If you look at the figures in the budget, which you voted on a few months ago, you will see that at the end of 2019 the level of the purchasing power of the households will reach once the level of their respective 2014. With this budget, which you voted on, you admit that in fact, five years were lost to the economy and, above all, they were lost to Greek households. Unfortunately, it is a clear assumption from your side of the failure to the issue of the economy. The Vice-President also referred to the fact that the New Democracy fell out of its predictions that the first evaluation was not closed. Indeed, we said you would not close the evaluation soon. And you remember statements at that time from the Finance Ministers of the SYRIZA Government saying that in a month's time we are closing, in two months' time we are closing and finally it took eighteen months to close the first assessment. Eighteen months, which certainly brought a great deal of weight to the Greek economy. A burden, which has been recalculated by the European institutions, with which you are involved, indirectly and directly around EUR 100 billion. The Vice-President also spoke of the current economic situation. I will submit to the minutes today's press release of the Public Debt Management Agency, which includes a bulletin from the State's General Accounting Office. Last year, specifically from December 2017 to December 2018, the public debt increased by 30 billion: from 328 billion to 358 billion. Even if we take into account the reserves of the Bank of Greece, you understand, ladies and gentlemen, that all this success story of SYRIZA that the economy returns back to normality, that there is indeed a primary surplus, is destroyed by the services of the government itself. Thirty billion, i.e. over 10%, the public debt increased from December 2017 to December 2018. And I think the government will have to answer that. [[At this point the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also come to the Prime Minister's visit to Turkey. Unfortunately, we have seen that diplomatic sources have spoken about relaunching relations between Greece and Turkey. This phrase alone, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately demonstrates your misguided failure in this matter. You call on the phrase're-start', and in fact you admit that in recent years there has been a failure of our foreign policy on this matter. And unfortunately we went back toward relations between the two countries. It is clear from the statements made between the two Heads of Government, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Erdogan that this visit was a customary one. We didn't see anything tangible. And, unfortunately, it seems, we don't expect this to happen. Because since the last meeting they have had here in Athens, unfortunately, we have seen that the respective relationships have deteriorated. Of course, there was also a very bad preparation. A number of issues were raised from a Turkish point of view as bilateral, which the Greek side had never agreed to discuss, as the fixed Greek positions are known. And, unfortunately, once again it seemed that there was a visit just to get the corresponding photos down, to show that we allegedly have a consultation with the neighbouring country, but there was no corresponding advance that would actually lead to tangible results. In the bill now, ladies and gentlemen. I shall speak very briefly. I begin with the question of extending by two months of the Katseli Act to protect the first residence. I think it is really a craving thing that, in the last four years, the present government, in the face of dealing with this issue, has, of course, created a very great deal of it, too, when there were the corresponding phrases and phrases in the Opposition on 'brokery' and 'no house in the hands of a banker', to come now, at the end of its term, after four years in fact, to extend a law of previous governments, because it has not just presented a sustainable solution for all these four years. I would remind you that in 2015, namely in the autumn of 2015, government officials had made great statements that the matter will be resolved by the end of the year. In particular, on 31 October 2015 Mr Tsakalotos from this one, the Stepma said that at the end of that year that particular issue would have been solved. The Deputy Prime Minister on the same day told us that the 2015 recapitalisation was necessary in order to address the burning issue of red loans. I, in fact, was glad to discover his statement and tried to pass a little more optimistic on the banks, because he, by mentioning what he said, has unfortunately actually created a foggy situation in terms of recapitalisation or not of the Greek banks. I think that today, by revising what he said four days ago in committee, at least he passed the right message. In any case, we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, but who are ruling these four years. You come today to regulate a situation that is difficult for Greek society and for Greek households, forgetting that, as I said before, four years ago, you yourself said it was a matter of a few months ago that this would have been resolved by the end of 2015. They are called Ministers of your own government, called Members of your own co-population, and I think that in this case there is no other doubt. Of course, I think that what the Vice-President has said is a clear confession to the failure of government policy, both in terms of dealing with the problems of red loans and returning the deposits to Greek banks. And if there is a point here, too, that must be made, is that even today we are talking about, four years after the country's government took over, the level of deposits is much lower than when the present government received it. In other words, the outflow of deposits made in 2015, these four years, unfortunately, has not returned to the Greek banks, so that they have this liquidity problem. Of course, the consequences of the government's unrest have also been highlighted by Mr Costellos in the last EuroWorking Group, namely that the lack of a legislative framework has a significant impact on the Greek culture of payments. I was simply Greek, he said, that the delay in legislation on the protection of the first residence by the government, unfortunately, increased the problem of red loans. So, ladies and gentlemen, let the government stop swinging the fingers in the New Democracy and finally present a solution that will, once and for all, provide a proper response to the issue, an issue which employs hundreds of thousands of households. Two words about the equivalent of transport. I have, Minister, in front of me - because you have indeed answered - the answer you have given to Mr Vardakis to a relevant parliamentary question. According to your reply, Crete does not present the same degree of difficulty and the specificities of islanders of the other smaller islands. You also said that there is no increased cost for Crete and you brought the example...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u108	What did I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u109	I'll tell you. I read for myself what you say and I will submit it for the Minutes: "In the case of Crete, the third-class passenger transport cost on the Piraeus - Crete on the coastline is EUR 29, while the corresponding cost at the CCELs is EUR 30,45". You say this as an example to justify that there is no need as far as Crete is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u110	For the passengers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u111	Yes, for the passengers. You say this as an argument to justify that there is no need, as far as Crete is concerned. Of course, you realise that this example alone is weak. You understand very simply that Crete also has a corresponding need. But while you say in your answer that, at the same time you conclude and say that the extension of the measure to Crete at a later stage is not excluded. You must decide, Minister: Is there or is there no need? Because you cannot on the one hand say that there is no need to end up, and if you like, by closing the eye in an election, saying at some point we will deal with it. You need to give a clear answer and I think that people in Crete should receive a responsible answer from you and say whether there is a need or not. Because if you think that there is no need, you should say so clearly. If you think that there are no financial conditions now and need to be dealt with later, you must also say so clearly. Because in the end, you end up in your answer saying that we are still under conditions of budgetary crisis. You have to answer as government: have we come out of the memorials or not? Are we still in a financial crisis, Minister or not? You need to give clear answers to the people of Crete, because you know very well that we, too, have difficulties in terms of increased costs and, above all, the producers in Crete - not only are they passengers, you know very well that they have also come to the ministry - they have great, increased costs compared to mainland Greece. I think they are the answers you need to give. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u112	Thank you Mr. Kefaliannis and the economy in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, could I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u114	Come on, Mr. Kamaterre. Although there was no verbal, you have the right to give an explanation. You have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u115	No, there was a clear personal reference and distortion of what I said in the House in my position. Mr. Kefaliannis, Mr. Colleague, I have for you a serious Member and I appreciate your presence. I'm sure you didn't see or read my location.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u116	I heard you, I was present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u117	You have also been lured from the publications that started on the website of the newspaper "First Theme", which brought up on the same night of my speech twisted what I said. I did not use the words you said, namely 'to define our borders'. On the contrary, I expressed the wish that we too wished to have an agreement that our neighbours would not claim on our islands. Is that a lie? Oh, no. Don't harass us at our border. Is it lying that our fishermen can't go fishing in Imia? I wish they didn't have any eyelids. Are they lying about trying to create a legal issue? I wish the planes didn't fly every day and become aerial fights over our head. Is that a lie? And who wouldn't wish that? That's what I said, but unfortunately this is also within the framework of the make news they use. Do not get carried away too, such as your Vice-President, who issued a report that the Prime Minister was in Maldives and special forces went to save him. That's not how it's going to be political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Kefaliannis, he didn't refer to you. He gave an explanation as he should have. He did not personally refer to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, he said that I distorted his words. Give me the floor for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u121	But we are delaying the process. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u122	I was present in my colleague's speech. Here's what he said. His position, which he just did, personally covers me. His first placement - which I would ask him once he gets the Minutes to correct - was not the one he just did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u123	It's clear. Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy Mr Santorinios has the floor and we will then continue with the speakers. Minister, you have the floor for nine minutes because the Vice-President of the Government has already spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, thank you. I'll try to be in time. There has been the mention of Mr Kamaterou in Imia, which is irrelevant to the bill, but I must refer to it. The Port House defends and ensures the presence of the Greeks throughout Greek territory and in Imia. We are there to ensure that the country's sovereign rights are guaranteed, without any derogation. That's what I think should be clear. I must say this, since I am at the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. On the basis of the amendment we make to the third article, in essence the addition of Stavros to the pilot application for the fuel of the equivalent of transport, there have been quite a lot of things about the equivalent of transport, I have to say. The opposition is constantly repeating, perhaps in order to reduce the measure of the transport equivalent, a set-off: "Take the VAT and bring the transport equivalent and that cannot replace the VAT." We've answered that many times. It is another thing the reduced rates of VAT, another thing the equivalent of transport. Stop calling against a measure that has been forty years a request from all the islanders and you have never dealt with this request. The transport equivalent is a request which is heard by all islanders, it is for the entire island country and I will also speak for Crete in a short time. There is therefore no link, no set-off between the reduced rates of VAT and the equivalent of transport. I will tell you from this position that for us, the reduced rates of VAT are not a battle that has been lost, it is a battle that continues to be given. And I stop there. But is the equivalent development measure? Why is it a development measure? Because, essentially, our island companies have a competitive disadvantage, especially those which export products from the islands. Why should I remind you that those who export products from the islands, when they send them to Athens for example, are sending them with 24% VAT, regardless of whether there is a reduced VAT rate or not. Isn't that right? So, here we respond to something very specific. What's that? Boat transport is more expensive. From the information we have so far on the application of the transport equivalent, on average, they are returned for the 44% ferry transport. The average company collection is over EUR 1,000 per quarter, over EUR 4,000 per year. Is that a little bit of money? At the moment they have joined the measure - you will allow me half a minute - over five and a half thousand businesses, of which more than three thousand six hundred are pilot operations and more than a thousand eight hundred, already in one month that was extended to all the islands, have entered to the measure. Are these operations wrong? Shouldn't they be on the count? Why are you shooting at it? Can you explain it to me? Because you never thought of applying it. That's why. And why you mind that this government, in these budgetary circumstances, applies the measure. As I said before, on average, we are returning 44% of the cost of shipping. Therefore, the transfer factor no longer exists for the increased cost. You asked a question. It does not go - it says - in the price of the product on the shelf and with what mechanism it will go. Can I ask you something? What mechanism do the reduced rates go with today on the shelf? How is it controlled? To have a clear question, in the islands that currently have a reduced rate of VAT are products increased? Yeah. Have they taken the transport cost? Yeah. Did some people, based on the fact that the special VAT rate was abolished, find a way to speculate? That's a question, and I'm staying there. It has been said by Mr Mario Georgiadis that it is a few tickets. For one of Rhodes' residents are sixteen tickets a year. For four - member families, which one of the four - family families can use, are sixty - four tickets a year. Is it a little? Let me get this straight. Are there a few? And for distances more than a hundred eighty miles it was extended, not only compensation for the third place, but also for cabins. Is it a little? Do you know how much they're coming back? Over 50%. On too many routes the compensation is over 50% and is returned at the end of the month. The islanders see that. They understand what this measure is for them. It has been said again - you have said so, Mr President-in-Office - that we are doing propaganda. It is a measure in which in most of these events technicians go. I'm not going, a political player isn't going. They go technicians and explain to businesses how to use the measure. Is that propaganda? Should enterprises not know how this measure will be implemented? Shouldn't accountants know? I don't think you wanted to say such things. It has been said, of course, that there is a blockade of operations. Who? The big ones? The ones with a turnover of over 40 million? Is that what you're cutting off for? You tell us why we are cutting ourselves off for the very small, small and medium-sized enterprises that have a turnover of up to 40 million. That is why we are cutting ourselves off, and we want to subsidise these islanders, because these businesses are the backbone of our islands' economy. And because the issue of fuels - my time is ending - for Crete, I had a meeting with Members of the House in Crete about the application of the transport equivalent to the islands. I'm sorry Mr. Kefaliannis is away to ask the question. But I'll answer him and he'll see it from the Minutes. Yes, indeed, the ferry passenger tickets are, on the basis of the respective CCTV values, at the same level or lower. So even if the islanders of Crete join, they're just not getting anything. It's simple. However, the maritime transport of the products is increased not as high as in Agios Stratis, not as in Mytilini, but is increased. We may not reach 40% of the freight compensation, but it will be a 20%, a 25%, a 30%. We'll see. For this reason, we have consulted the Chambers of Crete to bring us precise elements of transport products so that the companies in Crete will also be included in the transport equivalent. This is a government commitment. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because we are not making any distinctions between any citizen. Because we are applying an island policy which goes to the last citizen of this country! Because we want our islands to grow! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President, and indeed in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u126	Absolute accuracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u127	Absolute accuracy! I cannot answer you, but your comments are acceptable. Mr. Syriza, from the Syriza Parliamentary Group, has the floor, shortly after Mr. Syrgyrgos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u128	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Xydakis, I've seen you, but some speakers talk, haven't I? You'll be placed, too. The Minister spoke, and two of your colleagues will speak from SYRIZA. You will allow me to put Mr Saridis in between, so that there will be dialogue between another party and then you will speak. Three speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u130	At the end of the day, the parliamentary representatives are not speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u131	It's not in the end. Every two-three speakers said a parliamentary representative would speak. Three speakers are...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u132	It is acceptable, but there is a orderly order for dialogue to be possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u133	Do you want to talk first and then Mr. Saridis? There's no matter. To God! Here, Mr. Colleague, you've already gone to Stepma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the ratification of a legislative act. I am going to stand on two points, on the subject of VAT, where I was rapporteur and the previous time that the extension until the end of 2018 took place on the five islands that bear the burden of the refugee crisis and, of course, on the issue of the accession of Strates to the pilot project on transport equivalent to fuel. These are the two issues. I will not dwell on the issue of the act of legislation on first residence, because I think the Vice-President of the Government has spoken in detail. There will be the bill in a few days, and so all that is said will be put into place on time. In relation to VAT, it was, of course, an extension and it is self-evident. From there on, however, the issue of VAT is a big issue and it becomes very specious from the standpoint of Anti-Population, and in particular from the point of view of the Officerial Response on this issue. They have bet all their arguments on the islands and policy on the abolition of reduced VAT rates. I want to remind you of something, because Mr. Athanasios was not accurate. I'm using a polite expression. He said that in the mail Hardouvelis there was no question of increasing the reduced rates. I repeat. I've said it twice before. I'll tell you exactly what he said to be precise. On page 27, it talks about a review of the reduced rates of VAT on the Aegean islands. What does it mean when you reduce pensions when you increase VAT on hotels according to Hardouvel's mail from 6.5% to 13%? Does it mean further reduction or does it obviously mean an increase in reduced VAT rates? To tell what the reality is. Do not twist it and then use arguments that it was the government of SYRIZA that started the case. Of course, there were enormous pressures from the International Monetary Fund and other lenders at the time. But that is the reality and the Greek people know it. The increase in the reduced rates was voted by two or two hundred and twenty-three Members when we all voted on the third memorandum. So that's the reality. Of course, it's a big deal. Some Members have said: we do not stop claiming that the reduced rates should be restored. I say we adopt this proposal and wording. The Government in the new conditions of the memorandum period claims new reduced VAT rates for the whole island Greece, not only for the Aegean, but also for the Ionian Islands and for the other islands, the Sporades, Saronics, etc. - there was not before - in line with VAT in other regions of the European Union. And that is a possible objective that comes to equilibrium the conditions in our country with the other island regions of Europe. That is what this is all about, and I think it is a possible task for the government too. I say this because the Deputy Minister, Mr Santorinios, is here. This position must be adopted, by claiming a new reduced rate of VAT for all the islands. With regard to the second issue, for the equivalent of transport, this is a flagship reform, which, as long as the time goes, is a real estate by the islanders. From 1-1-2019 it applies to the island of Greece other than Crete. The Deputy Minister said that it is also to be applied in Crete through the study of the working group that is currently taking place and will result in concrete proposals. There's also the question of what kind you can get from the Public Investment Program. It's all about the money that's available. The government in all difficulties provided a figure of 160 million for the transport equivalent in 2019. Of course, it is emphatic that it will also be extended to fuels other than businesses. The pilot run will take place on too many islands. It's over fifty, if I'm not mistaken, the islands that are part of the pilot application for fuels. It will have very specific results. What remains is to be able to spread the measure to all islanders, in fact. Even now, unfortunately, neither the majority of the media helps many times nor helps businesses in the region. Even travel agencies hide the existence of the transport equivalent. As far as the measures for islands are concerned, this government, apart from VAT - which, from New Democracy and PASOK, was the only implementation of islands that existed over the years and which was not implemented in a way which benefited the consumer, and we know that because prices on the islands did not fall, despite the fact that they were reduced, because some fruited this difference of reduction - and in addition to the issue of VAT, therefore, the Government is gradually applying an integrated island policy. I do not have the time to mention ten - fifteen points of island policy, but I challenge to have a general debate at Parliament level as well to discuss the measures that have been taken in the last four years. I would really like to see the policy pursued by all the previous governments for too many years compared to the policies that we have started to practice as government from 2015 until today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, too. Mr Syrgis from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for seven minutes as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with an answer due. Yesterday in plenary, on the occasion of the debate on the Rules of Procedure of the House, we had the opportunity to say things by their name and, above all, to demonstrate the sensitivity and care of the current President of this House for its proper functioning. Today, as they did not have to go out of the question, some colleagues are again unjustly directed against the President of this House. I wonder whether they believe what they are claiming or simply referring again, in the absence of another, the time of their speech on this matter. Because of the unfounded objections, I conclude with the second one, namely that filling time, rather than the President of Parliament's behaviour, is what leads them to their off-the-spot reports. I continue with points and comments on two extensions and an extension, both beneficial and necessary, namely the ratification of the Act. First of all, the Government, by abandoning the bad practice of previous governments, respects the time limit to be ratified and for all legislative acts. That is why you also see the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which says that in time, the ratification of the legislative act is now being tabled and debated before us, the work of which is indeed praiseworthy, and that is why it must be said and recorded. The exclusive competence of the House is to assess whether the conditions for the ratification of the legislative act are met and I think there is no doubt that the necessary conditions are met. It is indeed necessary to extend the possibility of exempting the principal residence, and so on, by providing protection and in particular security for the persons concerned. It is also necessary to extend the reduced rates of VAT to the islands of Leros, Kos, Samos, Chios, which from the very point of view becomes necessary. Thirdly, the same applies to the extension of the transport equivalent, as has been said. We believe that the exceptional and urgent conditions were in place for the adoption of the legislative act and then the ratification by Parliament today. Recognizing the accompanying reports under Article 75(1) and (3) of the Constitution - is the report of the General Accounting Office of the State - we consider that the public interest and the benefit are greater than any charges. We must see these and make them clear. Now on the occasion of what I will say - and I will close - it is indeed the last conclusion that the benefit and public interest are greater than any burden. Ladies and gentlemen, after August 2018 and returning slowly, but firm steps to normality, we must remember the consequences of the choices made in previous years of the crisis that the answer to the dilemma should be given to policy. Watch out. It is not an election dilemma but a fundamental dilemma on the basis of which we will all be judged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Syrgos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u139	Here, Mr Contonis, you have the floor for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u140	I am going to need a minimum of time, Mr President, because the Vice-President of the Government has already announced that he is accepting the amendment which I tabled. However, I would like to say that Zakynthos was tested on 26 October by a strong earthquake and I would say that it is still being tested, because the meta-sismic sequence is intense and daily. For this reason, the Secretary-General for Civil Protection considered it right - and he did very well - and extended the time that Zakynthos was in an emergency and was initially identified by 29 January, until 28 April. You realise that during this period Parliament had planned and voted to suspend all acts of enforcement. We therefore reasonably now have an amendment that the House voted on and was in force until 29 January will now be valid until 28 April. It is a very reasonable request, and it also shows the interest of the government in the direction of strengthening and arming my country, Zakynthos. I would say once and for all that we are discussing the ratification of the legislative act today that the Government's interest in island Greece is undeniable. And the fact that it was extended to all the islands without exception to the Ionian islands also means transport equivalent is something particularly positive and will help development as well as to support weaker economic classes and citizens. So will it be good at some point, and the opposition will tell us in the years of prosperity all the things that are happening today that is slowly entering the country into normality why they weren't? Let's put disasters aside and at last give enough and convincing explanations to the islanders, because this has not happened for so many years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor in the belief that the two comments I have to make will help the debate on the top issue of the long-awaited settlement of red loans, even before the top of the debate with the imminent virtually deposit to the House of the relevant government's legislative initiative. Comment one. Some speak as if the things we legislate only concern the Greeks who owe, only those who owe them, who owe tax, who owe the banks, who owe the insurance funds they owe PPC, the municipality, who owe the rent, the public, who owe them, they owe them, they owe them. I disagree vertically, ladies and gentlemen. The solution for red loans is awaiting it with the same impatience as the Greeks who are consistent. It is those who pay their taxes, who pay their insurance funds, who pay, pay, pay, pay and have reached a point to wonder who they are finally working for. No matter how hard a person works in Greece today, no matter how worthy he is at work, he remains locked up in a centralised economy, which does not allow him any development at all. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think that the problem of red loans is only a problem for those who owe regardless of the reason they have reached this point, you are wrong. This problem concerns all of us. And there is no need to prove my claim beyond the reminder that we have already recapitalised the banks three times. And if we correctly interpret Mr Drasakis' recent responses to parliamentary scrutiny, there is a danger of the need for a fourth recapitalisation of banks. Do you hear that, ladies and gentlemen of the government? We're talking about the fourth recapitalisation of banks! Second comment. The reduction of VAT on the islands is a battle which must not be abandoned in any way by any Greek government. The reduction in VAT on the islands, Minister, is identical to the concept of islands as being recognized by the European Union in particular. So linking VAT with the burden of the refugee crisis openly and disconnecting the reduced VAT on the islands from its original foundations, that is to say, addressing the geographical particularity of the islands and displaceing it by linking it to the refugee crisis. So, once the refugee crisis is over, the islands will cease to be islands? The way in which we argue in favour of lowering VAT on the islands for reasons other than the economy and trade is very important. In any case, even when we legislate for specific population groups, the laws concern and apply to all our fellow citizens. Don't forget that. In the last few weeks, politicians and journalists have counted between 145 and 151 and then until 153. We don't have another job to do. Unfortunately, however, for many families the count from 145 to 151 relates to the euro available to make their month. We must not forget that either. At the beginning of September I tabled a proposal for a law. In addition to this proposal, I have also made my promise to the Association of Borrowers of Northern Greece and its President, Charalambo Pervana, that I will do everything I can for this law. I have therefore made a commitment to the citizens of this country in the budget debate. I have shown confidence in the government's commitment to the forthcoming debate on the proposal for a law in the Greek Parliament, taking the political cost. Along with me, in my vote, they showed confidence over a million citizens of this country and await the realisation of your promise, the government's promise, So let's see how much confidence we can have for you. Well, let's see how much confidence we deserve to have for you. Let's see, do you actually deserve part of the Greek people's trust or do you not deserve anything? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated thirty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the General School of Drosia Evia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Xydakis, Parliamentary Representative from Syriza, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming today to ratify an act of legislation which has given time and relief to some parts of the population suffering from the consequences of the long-term crisis. We had the opportunity to hear both the Vice-President and Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Drasakis, and the Minister of Island Policy, developing not only the general rationale, the strategic restructuring of the productive fabric and of the large national and on-the-spot policies, but above all to see how the country should go forward in the coming years, in the years after the memorandum. It is clear from what the Vice-President said that he needs honesty, needs realism, does not need double words and hidden truths. It needs truth and seriousness and responsibility. On the side of the large progressive majority, created by SYRIZA, it is clear from its programming declarations, but also from the difficult implementation of a government policy at the expense of fiscal adjustments, internal devaluation and the collapse of the economy during the eight-year memorandum period, that SYRIZA nevertheless tried to crack down this harsh fiscal neoliberal at the core of politics by its planning, nuclear placement, its cellular placement in favour of the world of labour and the world of production. We therefore claim that the political practices which are now unfolding after the end of the memoranda are not only aimed at alleviating, fair and absolutely necessary relief for the population, but at restoring and creating a new vitality for the Greek economy and society, strengthening production, restructuring the productive model, and always in the light of social justice, maintaining and strengthening social cohesion, and in particular the recovery of a collective national self-confidence and establishing a vision for the future. Squile, backbone in this social project is certainly the world of production, the world of small and medium-sized enterprises and professionals, the world of this small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which offers around 86% of jobs. If the small and medium-sized enterprises, which move in the grey zone, are to redirect employment, they will be given an opportunity to regain social cohesion, not at pre-crisis levels and at pre-crisis levels, but in new healthier forms of social organisation. The Vice-President reminded us of some financial instruments that aim to fill the gap now seen by bank lending. The banking lending we hope will return after the country's strong reconnection with its capital markets. They are already moving to issue their own bonds and ways of financing from international capital markets and banks, which is expected to have a beneficial effect on liquidity. But until then - what is very important - the political applications expected of the government in the near future will stimulate this sector of the economy, the small and medium-sized ones, as are small adjustments to the tax rates, and the hundred and twenty instalments to regulate outstandings in insurance funds and in the public sector. I would add that there will also be a thought of adjusting insurance contributions which have been adapted to the professions because of an increase in the minimum wage. I think that this will come to the thought of the economic staff and the social policy, labour and economic and national development ministries, so that the whole framework will be supportive at first stage to get out of the grey zone the six hundred - six hundred and fifty thousand small and medium-sized enterprises that are currently trying to find a step forward. The Vice-President mentioned at least three - four financial instruments. I would like to dwell on the programme of financial support for small and medium-sized tourist enterprises, which has two features. One is that we see there is a constant flow of capital to the large businesses, but it is a state's debt, because it wants to support the small entrepreneurship that the backbone is told to help them. These do not have the potential to go to large bank loans or to international financial markets. The programme which announced EUR 400 million met a demand of about three times and requested EUR 1,12 billion and submitted close to eight thousand applications. In the course this offer was increased and it was a powerful signal. In a second phase, the financial tools offered by the TANEO, the Development Fund of New Economy under the Ministry of National Economy, are of great importance. It has launched 700m euros and offers the possibility for small and medium-sized enterprises to resort to new financial instruments that were not common to small enterprises, to issue bonds guaranteed small funds and to the private fund partnership. They are new financial instruments that go directly into small and medium-sized enterprises. I think it is a basic direction, beyond European resources, based on national resources and large-funded partnerships, to have a money flow on the market, in the small business of EUR 40 000, EUR 50 000, EUR 100,000, up to EUR 40 000 was in tourists. Similar scales, perhaps a little more, are in TANEO. One final comment, because colleagues and the minor and the major opposition have heard some initial comments about the Prime Minister's visit to Turkey and his meeting with the President of Turkey Erdogan. First of all, we must also point out in this Chamber, which has a good climate today, that strict criticism from Opposition is not only legitimate, but welcome and fertile. Hysterical criticism, no arguments with cries and insults offers no one. Let us say, the criticism Mr Koutsoukos has had a rigour, but also a form of justice. He recognized the steps, claimed the political legacy of his own party to deal with the overhead households, the first home. However, even the gesture of offering an amendment - which the Vice-President accepted in principle and promised to see when the bill comes, to see if there is no such provision, to incorporate it - shows a function that tries to find shocks, to make criticisms, to make its own points of view, to tell them, to report them, but if there is a point in which we can find a field of joint action that improves the whole of the citizens, in the end of our mandates, our fellow citizens to whom we are accountable, we can and do so. Other critical shots by Opposition are only characterised by a horrifying hysteria, lies, rabies, hostility, zeroing for everything that is done and also by a counterfeiting of memory, history, political practices of past governments, things that have happened and no one doubts. With regard to the Prime Minister's visit, unfortunately foreign policy recently, on the occasion of the Macedonian, has resulted in a field of controversy and arrogance, confrontation and lies. The government has shown mobility in foreign policy, has shown wisdom along with boldness, has shown that it goes where it has to go, that it assumes historical weights and historical responsibilities for great loose ends, based on lines and positions consolidated in the Greek political scene. We have also noticed - at least foreign analysts, who are much cooler and objective and cannot be described as pluralist, or pro-communists - that Alexis Tsipras has contributed to the recovery of diplomatic capital for the country. Not for his face, not for his resignation, but for Greece. Diplomatic capital is recovered, which has been lost rapidly and in painful ways, humiliating the Greek people in the years of the crisis, in the years of bankruptcy, in the years of bankruptcy, in the memorial tombs. Even in the years of the refugee camp, the Greek people were slandered. We're winning. We win like Greeks. Alexis Tsipras does not win, Greece wins, and at last we see that from the doctrine of diplomatic immobilization, the doctrine of intensity and the doctrine of shrinking, that nobody understands us, that we are siblings, that we have enemies everywhere, that we are moving towards a policy of realism, weighed and severe energy, to strengthen national positions and interests, and finally, to realize and exploit the changing geopolitical connections. You can't stay still, introvert, instantly, when everything around you changes. It happened between 1989 and 1991, when Europe and Greece were changing, it was sinking into the introvert and internal division, when they were being tried as prime ministers and the world around us. Now that the south-eastern Mediterranean is changing, Europe is unfortunately changing for the better, and we need to be a stabilizing and pacifying force in our region, but also in the wider region and not in a country which produces problems or becomes part of a problem that does not deserve. The rule of law, the power of peace, the force of stabilisation, Greece which is not threatening, but accepts to be threatened by anyone. This is the foreign policy of the Left, and that is the foreign policy that is worthy of Greece and finally has it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Mr Chogas will now speak and then Mr Dritsa and Mr Sahinides, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, will follow, to conclude the circle of parliamentary representatives and to move towards the end slowly. Mr. Choga, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Madam and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the ratification of the legislative act of 31 December 2018 concerning the extension of the option of exempting the main residence from liquidation, pursuant to Law 3869/2010, the extension of reduced VAT rates in the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios and the extension of the transport equivalent is an opportunity to demonstrate that in matters that have strong social implications we can and, moreover, we are obliged to cooperate, leaving aside barbarous political controversy. Such issues, with a strong social profile, regulate the act of law in force, namely the extension of the right to protect the first residence of citizens who are in a difficult financial situation and the relief of the inhabitants of the island regions which have borne the burden of increased refugee flows. By ratifying the two-month extension of the protection of the first home, the Government, consistent with its positions and always on the basis of the protection of vulnerable and socially and socially vulnerable citizens, seeks to extend the law of over-debted natural persons and households so that by the end of February, those who wish to protect their homes can be subjected to a transitional phase until a permanent framework for the protection and regulation of our fellow citizens' debts is agreed, in cooperation with the relevant European institutions, banks and the Bank of Greece. Our intention is not to lose any home for debts that were dramatically increased because of the long economic crisis. Apart from the constitutional obligation to protect home and family life, we also have a moral obligation to protect our fellow citizens who have found themselves in a financial deadlock. We must not forget that the over-expected blooming over the last decade was the result of bank immunity and a total lack of state supervision. Loans for consumer and credit cards were granted telephone calls without any credit rating, in addition to the financial capabilities of the applicants for borrowing, creating a polite atmosphere, but virtually non-existent, since abusive general trading conditions, high interest rates of lending, illegal settlements and an abundance of money without criteria, without control, without consumer protection, without any responsibility on the part of the potential player in the transactions, in this case banks, have put a snitch on a large part of the population, which, in view of the change in the conditions created by the economic crisis in their daily lives, is at risk of being found without shelter. It is imperative that, in addition to the two-month extension of the validity of Law 3869/2010, as amended, we all contribute to the protection of the first residence of economically weaker natural persons and households. The Government has already announced its intention of a new legislative framework for the management of private debt and the rescue of first residence. The government cannot leave such an important issue to itself, which is directly linked to the stabilisation of our economy, but also to the safeguarding of the banking system. However, the creation of an institutional framework for the management of red loans will require careful planning so that both sides can be satisfied. We need balanced solutions and proper weighing in the scales. It is necessary to find a satisfactory solution for Greek citizens to come out of social and economic exclusion and return to normality. With regard to the extension of the reduced VAT to the islands and the maintenance of it by the government, it goes without saying that it acts as a support measure for islanders who raise the burden of the refugee crisis on the back. It's one of the few things we can do for the whole world. And as long as the refugee flows last, we will retain this privilege in favour of Samos, Chios, Lesvos, Kos, Leros as a means of stimulating their local economies that have been affected in recent years. The Government, with both the transport equivalent and the reduced rate of VAT, stands next to island Greece, recognises the problems faced by local communities and remains consistent with its social and development policy. These extensions are a sample of responsible policy and strategic planning for economic strengthening and development of the country. The regulations we are discussing today serve a large part of our society. They are looking forward to the economic and social on-the-job of our fellow citizens who have collapsed and almost exterminated from the crisis and it is our duty, especially when it comes to social policy, to put aside our party differences and to support measures that work for the benefit of the people and the country. The Act of Legislative Content is an opportunity to respond to our role, which is no more than the defence of the people's interests. Ladies and gentlemen, any opposition to you in this bill will be another contribution to your general political failure. It will be another small point of view, against the attempt to protect the threatened people's interests. It will prove by far that you are supporters of neoliberal perceptions, that in the end you will be guardians of an irreversible logic that ignores the needs of society, a society that gradually lifts its head through the legacy of the Memorandum and seeks its survival and historical justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Therefore, voting the bill is not just a one-way road, but it is a social requirement and a necessity, since the government's planned planning will lead to a definitive and fair solution to the increased social problems, for which you have a significant to sole share. These given, any other attitude of yours will indicate a sterile opposition tactic alone. I hope you do not fall back on another political and social blow, as you are used to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Choga. Mr. Dritsa has the floor for seven minutes. Immediately after that, Mr. Shahinides. We are also waiting to see some colleagues who are still waiting to finish. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. "Solar growth" Mr. Loverdos asked us just before. He did not even comment on a very interesting presentation which the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, did before the House on a plan to cover an existing financial gap, nor did he take into account anything. Good. And I could answer him that I would dream of being, like Dimitris Horn at the "Alimono to the Young", fifty years younger, and confronting the new data of life again and again. I won't answer him that way because things aren't about humor. Did the country go to debt? He's in debt. Whether it didn't go bankrupt and it's typically of little importance. Has this government been trying since 2015 to implement a programme of going out of bankruptcy and crisis based on the stimulation of internal demand - that was the programme in early 2015 - and the impeccable correlations in Europe and worldwide have not allowed it? He tried since the government and put a plan in September 2015. Rescue plan and society and the economy. A stabilisation plan - a step, with the aim of rescuing, stabilising, reconstruction and development with social cohesion and justice? Are we on an unprecedented phenomenon for Greek reality a project to be implemented and acted upon - for the first time by completing a four-year-old government project? Is that a profit? It's huge, unprecedented. Do we have any prospect of elections in front of us, according to constitutionally defined? Sure. Is it the responsibility of all opposition forces, in view of this reality, to organise their proposals for 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023? This is the debate that it needs in this place that has suffered all these pains. And if all that has happened in this four-year period with the SYRIZA Government is not all very left - and indeed not the most left - it is enormously important that for the first time the Left has been able to put in place a process of rescue, stabilisation, recovery and development, so that we can now discuss the prospects of 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023. Otherwise, we couldn't. This is the huge contribution of the Left, even when it does not precisely "left policy", because it is useful, because it is precisely in line with the needs of society. Socratestic growth rates: let Mr. Loverdos tell us the proposal. The theory of the spring? Maybe he's right. This, however, needs no impression and no easy criticism. He also says "better, better prepared visit of the Prime Minister to Turkey". Our parliamentary representative, Nikos Xydakis, told them. I don't have to come back. Did I not understand, when there is so much liquidity, any step to maintaining the initiative of developments in control, of influencing developments, is it of little importance? Isn't that a preview print? Is this how you close the consultation on invitations between Heads of State? Are we being so simplistic to hit SYRIZA? And while yesterday the President of Parliament - not only against this House, but against Greek society, to the Greek people - challenged all the misery and feathers of the arguments about allegedly constitutional deflection and defiance of parliamentary life with a reason of accountability against society and the opposition of all these arguments, Mr Athanasios came to tell us today - to repeat and rekindle the debate - what will be done by one of the six Members of Parliament who - I amazedly - have done nothing less, nothing more than a notification of their political will to support this government, which a few days ago, and also by the vote of confidence. That's it. And Mr. Athanasios has come to make a new puny - because all these days, we hear tricks and punks, elsewhere more serious or distracted, like Mr. Venizelos, elsewhere less - and tell us what one of the six will do if he disagrees with an article. What does Mr Athanasios do if he disagrees with an article that New Democracy is voting on in a bill? Does he come here asking for a roll-call vote? I do not understand what absurdities these are for a single purpose, to undermine this government, which completes a positive path - on its own ground - with any criticism and from whatever side and whatever side and by denying it all the opposition to draw up, to table before the Greek society its own proposals for the next period. Our islanders, Nikos Syrmalenes, Antonis Syrigos, George Pallis, Ilias Kamaeros - I see Dimitris Sevastakis - followed by the island minister, Nektarios Santorinios, also spoke about the transport equivalent to the island policy and covered all these issues. I would like to ask the New Democracy, but in particular, more specifically, the PASOK, the KINAL. At least since 2007 I have dealt with Tasos Aliferis - the late Tasos Aliferis - and other island mayors for the transport equivalent both in Greece and in Brussels, in order to move on. And there have been several governments since then and they haven't opened it as a matter. And when he's coming now - in the way he comes - and is established? We've got misery phenomena. Finally, a policy that does not enable Greek citizens to optimise, is not politics, it is not opposition, it is degradation, it is a trick of communicationists. And within the House, communications tricks cannot function. The political reason must be in place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this respect, the only addition I have to contribute - I am done, Mr President - is not only transport equivalent. It is a island but also a mountainous 'equivalent' that we must discuss the new period of our country's prospect. Because it is not possible for the Athinocentricism or the great urban center of Thessaloniki in northern Greece to be the Greek economy by 80%. It can't be done. Only a prospect of regional decentralisation and co-development of island and mountainous regions can give a future to this country and to this society, together with issues and social cohesion and work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Comrade, if you'd like, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u150	So this government's initiative on transport equivalents and many other initiatives taken for the islands opens up this dialogue. Islander and mountainous "equivalent" for the new modern Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. Here, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Varvichiotis, it's you. Here comes Mr. Sevastakis and we are heading towards the end. The Parliamentary Representative from Golden Dawn has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. We have won a global originality over the last few years that the Greek Parliament has been operating. Unfortunately, in the way in which the legislation takes place, in the way in which the debates are being held - I said at a previous sitting - the political system, politicians and politics have been refined and humiliated. I imagine that from now on, where political sciences or law are taught, Greece will be presented as an example for avoidance. We see in a Greek Parliament the world's originality of two MPs belonging to two parties at the same time. Let's see what else we'll have to wait! Since 2012, since the Greek people have honoured us with their vote, we have proved in this Chamber that we are not zero. In bills, amendments, sanctions, what was for the good of the Greek citizen we were positive. Everything that was at the expense of the Greek citizen, of course, was across from us and we were against it. With regard to today's legislative act, I will be staying in three parts, on the protection of first residence, on the equivalent of transport and on the reduction of the VAT rate. First residence protection: We will vote against it, not because we do not believe in protecting the first residence. On the contrary, you do not give a solution. Once again you come to give an extension. As the left, if you really wanted to put an end to it, you could well - and I think you would have the support from all the wings of the Greek Parliament - to vote not only for the first residence but also for the professional roof. But let us take as an example what we have heard from your officials. I will give you an example of the SYRIZA Member, Mr Kafantaris, who, in an interview with her, stated that what the free traders knew to be their bosses, to forget about them. So you show us exactly what you believe in in relation to the property regime. It hurts you, of course, that Greece worldwide is being recorded as the country with the highest percentage of ownership. That's what you want to change. Transport equivalent: We will also vote against this because it is a programme that is pilot. The results of this programme will be available after a year, and I imagine that this pilot project will be in place for as long as there is money. But we have not heard what you intend to do with the overtaxes that have been made, with the increases in product prices for Crete. Why is Crete excluded? Isn't Crete an island? Have you done any submarine works or a bridge and has Crete ceased to exist as an island? Reduction in VAT rate: And we will vote against this because you do not put a VAT rate down on all Greek islands. And the reduction in VAT rate has to do with the islands that have been succumbed to the so-called "immigrant" for you, "lash migration" for us. Oh, no. The islands should have a lower VAT rate, not to say at all. As far as legislative action is concerned, then, we shall vote against all the articles. Regarding the Prime Minister's visit to Turkey, we have seen the intentions of the Turks early. We saw them and felt them, as every other time a government official visits from Greece or a Turkish government official visits Greece. They are welcomed by violations at both our maritime borders and by air. We have seen the intentions of the Turks early. What did Erdogan do? He appealed to the eight to whom Greece has provided asylum. In fact, the representative of the Turkish Presidency, Ibrahim Kalin, also mentioned the content of the debate. What did he say? He said they would discuss the Aegean, for the Mediterranean, for the continental shelf and for the islands, while leaking from government sources that the points where they focus the debate would be six points. Who was that? First, the reduction of tension in the Aegean. We have seen it, as I said before, and we collect it, as I said, daily from the Turkish violations. Secondly, he said there would be a resumption of the Cyprus talks. If you are going to propose solutions and give solutions, as you have done with the Ambassadors' agreement, I would ask you not to resolve and give solutions to other national issues. You're dangerous! Thirdly, economic cooperation has been mentioned and we have even heard that we have been asked to increase growth rates. What financial cooperation are we talking about? You can well make an application, any MP or MP in ELSTAT and ask for a situation about what Greece imports and exports to Turkey and vice versa, what it imports and what Turkey exports. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that at the moment even the bells of our churches are imported from Turkey? Do you know that the furniture marketed, the plastics, the whites, all of which are imported from the neighboring country? For what financial cooperation? With who? Fourthly, it has been mentioned that there should be energy cooperation. If this were to be done, and if they would have to start in discussions on energy, they would have to be done only with Russia and anyone else. We were also told that there was a debate on the refugee question. Refugee - illegal immigration is what we say. Here has proved your false humanism, because on this very point, you have based and based your policies. We have repeatedly said that people who come as refugees, as economic immigrants - as you say to them, we no longer care - are registered by seventy-eight different countries. If you really wanted to make us think that you are humanists and you are interested in finding a solution to such a serious problem, you should have the money spent by the European Union, but also by Greece, in order to create infrastructure in the countries from which you come, to make recommendations to the regimes that govern their countries and not to come to a country that is destroyed financially, in a country where there is a great wave of immigration from young people, in a country which is suffering from unemployment, which cannot and must not, in the end, accept this wave of illegal immigrants. We have repeatedly said that under no circumstances can these people's culture coexist with the culture and the customs that we have as Greeks. Finally, it was mentioned that the sixth theme of discussion would be Turkey's accession perspective in the European Union. Did you forget the objections that exist from other Member States which have rightly stated that they will veto Turkey's accession process? What different are you aware of, which they do not understand? But what, in practice, happened at this meeting? Towards the end of his interview Erdogan refused Mr. Tsipras' request for the reopening of the Theological School of Halki, on the grounds that there is no education. It even went on - and here is the great defeat of the Prime Minister against Erdogan - in the equatorialisation of the legal status of the Ecumenical Patriarchate and the Patriarch, but also of the fifteen bishops who constitute the Holy Synod of the Patriarchate, with the legal status of the mufts of Thrace, which are certainly a lower tier of a religious minister of Islam. But what did Erdogan do? As I said before, it degraded the Ecumenical Patriarch to the level of mute and metropolitan, which was not accepted by the Prime Minister in December 2017. In fact, he had answered Erdogan, where he is now coming to impose his own views and theories, that the question of West Thrace mufts is an internal matter. What did he do at this meeting? It's just that he's silent. It was probably something that suited him. On the Cyprus issue, the Prime Minister left open the discussion with the Turkish leader on the possibility of collecting the hydrocarbons of the Greek Cypriots with the Turkish Cypriots in the Eastern Mediterranean. In fact, it stated with emphasis that energy must be a bridge between the two countries. This is a dream, it's a utopia. The constant issue that the Greek Government should raise in every debate, at any level of bilateral - and not only - meetings and discussions, would be one and only: the big issue of the recognition of the Genocide of Pontian and Minor Hellenism in Turkish terms. Then and only then could we accept that they have changed a little, that they have regretted the crimes they have committed. Previously, a previous speaker was mentioned on the subject of the Theological School of Halki. Here the New Democracy is changing positions according to the beam, as it had changed in the matter of separation of State - Church. As soon as he saw then that there are reactions from Greek citizens, it changed completely. As he also did with the Prespecies Agreement, where he changed his position. But there is also a post, just two days ago, in the newspaper "Dimouratia", on February 4, where the President of the New Democracy said that "We have nuclear weapons in our hands and if we are provoked, the government of SYRIZA will regret it." What is the interpretation - not my own - of course - of your former Minister, Mr. New Democracy, Minister of State and your former Government Representative? He wonders: "Does he see what Mr Mitsotakis said? That he has evidence of criminally flattered acts that do not send them to justice." And I'll fill it in. Is the corruption prosecutor listening? Is there a cover-up? There's a bazaar, and we don't know about it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Also - to see how hypocritical you are - twenty-four hours ago just on a show at the state channel of ERT - which we are paying for, but not all - the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior was invited, Mr Constantine Poulakis, where he was asked about the forthcoming elections, said that a committee has been set up where there is pluralism from all the corners of the Greek Parliament. Really, when did we not know that? Well, polls. Unfortunately for you, the Golden Dawn seems to be reinforced. We are now sixteen nationalist MPs and parliamentarians. Imagine the next House with more than thirty Members of the People's Nationalist Movement. You're passing through.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr. Shahinides. Come on, Mr. Varvitsiotis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, I feel strange to speak in the House of Three hundred Members, because two are two of them. They are part of two parliamentary groups, they are playing two roles and they have actually shown how many possibilities they have, since they can be in the opposition, to support the government and, ultimately, to increase the number of Members. I would like to make one suggestion to these six who suddenly saw the light, while they were in other parties, had dealt with other parts, historically they were far from the left. Instead of sending degrading letters to the President of Parliament themselves, let them finally make a statement of repentance. Let them make a statement of repentance and say that 'we have finally found our home on the left, we have poorly gone to all these other parties, we have badly lied to our voters for all these years. We have always expected to find in Alexis Tsipras' face the leader we want and this story will end. All the others are cargos, which show one thing and lead the citizens to them, who question the proper functioning of the democratic system. They say, "But, if you'll excuse me, why not go somewhere else?" I come to the issues we are discussing. I haven't seen an act of social automation in years. The act of legislation that prolongs the status of low VAT rates in the Aegean islands now leads to a paradox: the citizens and local authorities say "go illegal aliens". That's how you made the VAT for the Aegean. “ Bring in illegal foreigners. In this way we will only maintain the low rates.’ What is written as a precondition for the act of legislation to grant the extension by six months of the low VAT rate regime is indeed the face of the analgesic Left, which is preoccupied first by all the people for whom it says it is fighting. It says: "It is possible to reduce by 30% VAT rates for a six-month period on islands, since the average number of guests in the host and identification centres of each island in the 12 months preceding the adoption of the decision exceeds the hosting capacity on an island". What does that say? He says: "Give others to live in terrible conditions, not to respect their human rights, to have them in centres where we cannot satisfy their human needs, to maintain the low VAT rates." And the European seal thing. I recommended to the Council of Europe and my amendment was accepted unanimously by the Committee on Immigration and will be discussed when it comes to plenary, the condemnation of this decision. It is unacceptable to link the maintenance of the low VAT rate scheme with the maintenance of unacceptable living conditions in hosting centres. Mr Sevastakis, I hope to hear the truths, because Samos is today the island most affected, with some four thousand illegal immigrants and refugees, who are hosted in a centre built for six hundred fifty. On 4 December Mr Vitsas came to the Samian people, their representatives, and told them that they would go into decongestion. The decongestion's over. Now there is no demand for decongestion from local communities. No request since it was linked to the low VAT rates. I am really impressed by the way in which you work on an issue that is ideological and political to you and you are working on this subject, bringing contradictions to local communities themselves. I should like to close, Mr President, with a reference to the issues relating to the recapitalisation of banks. Mr. Drasakis came in for the second time, within the second day and sounded the alarm of the risk of forced recapitalisation of the banks. First he confesses failure himself. It has been supervising the government's economic policy for four years. It has made a forced recapitalisation, in which the Greek banking system effectively naived and forced all banks to sell their branches abroad. The recapitalisation by Mr. Drasakis in 2015 was essentially forbidden by the Greeks who had collected their money from the bank and had put it in the chest, to return it to the banking system, ultimately leading the value of the banks at very low levels and driving the Financial Stability Fund, which belongs to the Greek people, to lose close to the 25 billion euros of shares. Today, four years later, he comes back to tell us he failed. And today if we have an outflow of deposits or a lack of confidence in the banking system, which is collapsed, it is no longer due to the statements by the Vice-Population officials, as you said in 2015 that we led the Bank Run, but it is due to the statements of yours. What will a citizen hear today when the banking supervisory officer comes up in ten days and says that we can recapitalise the banks by cutting the deposits? What will the average citizen think? That they risk his money and that they will not leave any Drasakis amateurs, who have been unable to regulate the issue of red loans for four years. And any arrangements he has made to date, it has appeared that they cannot deal with the problem. So be very careful, do not cultivate any climate in public opinion that will jeopardise the fragile economic equilibrium. Take care very well and take the decisions in time, because while you are still delaying your endless discussions and inability to make a serious decision, all you create is insecurity to Greek citizens, depositors and shareholders of the banking system. Mr President, I would like to say a lot about the transport equivalent, but I will only say one word to you. The transport equivalent and the objective of keeping the same price of the product on the shelf in Piraeus and in the islands was why, over time, the Greek Government has led us to keep the rates of VAT low, which you have abolished, and today you are working in the way that I have told you, in equality, with equality and without discrimination. Today, this money you give the transport equivalent, you could have managed it much better and you have real equivalent on the islands and not only transport, but also health and education and energy equivalent and safety equivalent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Varvitsiotis. Before giving the floor to Mr Sevastakis, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty-nine students and apprentices and three educational attendants from Sornais Magnesia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Sevastakis has the floor, the last of the speakers. Then, ladies and gentlemen, you have asked to give a second answer. You just want - you said - two, three minutes each to be placed by the seat, on the draft law, and then the Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, will be closed. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Varvitsiotis overturned the structure of my handwritten speech and my notes. I should like to say that the financial support for the refugee and civil war is not linked in practice. Refugee pressure is indeed a painful experience. It has created great pressure on the social fabric and on social balances. We know very well that this is an extremely complex problem. It's not related to the intention of moving. They have moved to 2018 - and in the past few days I supported a timely question to Mr Vitsa - five thousand eight hundred refugees from Samos. But about eight thousand have come, which means that I have a problem of breaching the agreement, I have a problem of liquidating the European Union-Turkey Agreement and I also have a second problem. The categorisations with which refugees are being hierarchised and evaluated are extremely problematic. That's not what we're talking about today. I would say that the linking of the reduced status to the refugee is not the case. The applicant's argument is that the reduced VAT rate is to enter into the trading day-to-day requirement. This is a request from the islanders and they accept it, they want it as a very importantly beneficial provision. It is not only about costs, it also concerns the profits of small businessmen operating on the islands. There is, in fact, an interesting proposal - and if the economic ministers can see it - to be linked not to the geographical concept of the island, but to the tax concept, to link tax rates to the reduced VAT system. I don't know, it's something we can see and claim. And we are certainly all agreed that we would like a reduction in the status quo throughout the island area, when the country's finances, which make their first emancipation steps from the Memorandum, allow it. Therefore, I will not be tempted to respond to the various pillows that have been heard before. I would also like to say something about the refugee issue. There was criticism of the visit of Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to Turkey. Because my experience is the invasion and occupation of Cyprus in 1974 and the militarisation of the islands of the Eastern Aegean and also the militarisation of a large part of our economy, but also of political mortgages, I would like to say that it is very important even in the hardest times to have communication channels. The refugee is part of the transnational relationship. Refugee pressure is an organic part of transnational relations. Therefore, Tsipras must place, communicate and claim on behalf of our country. The foreign policy part of Turkey - you know it is very complex, there have been infinite discussions in Parliament - cannot be regulated or understood by the traditional terms on which political analysts work. Too often unorthodox elements come into politics. However, it is a neighbour with a significant geostrategic burden with which we are in a competitive relationship as a stronger neighbouring country and therefore contact and consultation is necessary. I think that this dimension should be given and we should not be modest or petty in daring. After all, Greece has no insecurity to speak. Greece has no insecurity to speak either from a defensive point of view, from a cultural point of view, or from the point of view of the major alliances which have recently strengthened it and the quadripartite relations between Greece and Cyprus - Israel - Egypt and the multilateral relations with the European inland Europe. There was a very long debate and unfortunately they left quite a few minutes. I wanted to talk a little bit about this impermeable credit extension that has taken place in recent decades and which has created a hollow ground on which banks are moving and which we are currently dealing with in the form of red loans, non-performing loans. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Logically, since the seller of the loan was the accelerator, not the receiver was created a gap outside the economy. It was the most deeply uneconomical option for credit expansion beyond production and beyond the productive identity of the country that happened. Today we have an obtuse, we have a pull and an attempt to rationalize. I would like to say that the question of the rationalisation of red loans is about not burdening the people, that is to say, not compromising the debts of the banks, because it is a disgraceful thing. And by collectively debt, you are actually burdening the weak, the weak one is the fragile one. It is therefore not a form of folklore that the debate on red loans and their rationalisation through the various solutions proposed in the financial fora, but it is at the core of the effort to find a People's Protocol defending the deposits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you are kind, I would like your tolerance. I'm the last speaker, there was a decency to others. I know you're a strict...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u157	You have custody, Mr. Sevastaki. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much. So I say that this finding of this protocol, an economic protocol, will not dismantle the people's saver and will not load the man who is not receiving a loan with an additional debt through the recapitalisation, as has happened in previous years. The recapitalisation is collective debt, it's a debt they carry, and our children who didn't produce it. I say, therefore, that, in order not to move forward, we should work a little bit on the field rather than on a silk-making level. There are solutions like the collector bank of all reds, but greening the bank profile is a strategic option. With these thoughts I wanted to complete my approach with an observation above not just at the shocking growth rate that the eloquent Mr. Loverdos said in his previous position, but at the growth rates as if it were the model of economic health. Remember the growth rates we had in the 2000s, ladies and gentlemen. We've had a very high rate of growth. Did they relate to our economic quality, to the quality of our production, or did we have a rate of pseudo development where production collapsed, while the credit expansion was being extended, and this collapse was covered? We paid it all. The economy can't lie. The stock marketing of the economy cannot be the only way, unless there is a strong production underneath. And strong production, thanking the President for his tolerance, also means a high level of labour relations and an effort to raise the minimum wage, small measures to bring about, turn and remedial action that we must all support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr Sevastakis, for completing the list of speakers. We shall now proceed to the seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers, and will close the debate on the bill with Mrs Papanatziou. So I will now give the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Palley, for three minutes. Here you go, Mr. Palley.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u160	So I would say that a great deal has been said in the sitting. Firstly, in order to be clear and unequivocal, I shall table the New Democracy amendment to which my colleague referred. On 29 July 2018, the negative impact of migration management on the Aegean islands. It is evident in the local economy, the Kyts of the three islands, plus the fact that we have two earthquakes in Lesvos and Chios. That's what New Democracy said in the summer of 2018. I'll testify to the Minutes. So the accusations that we are linking the refugee are also her own perception. We have said that clearly, we are talking about the previous average for the previous 12 months. Our aim is, if only we could - you know very well - from tomorrow not to be overpopulated and, yes, when we get to Europe, it is another issue with VAT rates and we fully agree that we should talk about it on another basis. I heard Mr. Varvitsiotis. I would, however, like to see that amendment tabled to the Council of Europe in writing. Because looking, we didn't find her anywhere. The amendment was not found. There are publications. It was an oral amendment - position. I imagine he was filed in writing in the House. I will not go into whether there is or is not an amendment. Let us clarify this, please. I am pleased that it selects a resolution from the agency in question to support the position. I imagine that he also appreciates the other resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. One of these is the international obligations of the Member States of the Council of Europe to protect human life at sea. He hasn't supported it. But Mr. Varvitsiotis tells us. He tells us to sink boats. So rescuing people at sea is a moral and legal obligation for each Member State. It is the same Council that tabled the amendment to decouple VAT. I would also remind Mr Varvitsiotis that the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe welcomed the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement, describing the historic moment for bilateral relations between the two states. Does the New Democracy share this attitude? He'll answer us. I'll close by saying that obviously we're pleading most of the orders to sanction. I am sorry for the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u161	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u162	I am sorry, because they were among the first to have reduced VAT rates. However, I am very sorry that, in the face of the elections, I cannot understand - we have heard this too! - how transport equivalent to seafarers' rights can be linked and where it affects them. That's how far we've arrived! Not to say about the consortium on the islands of the northern Aegean with no friendly forces towards human rights and refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Varvichiotis, can we give the floor to Mr. Consola?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u165	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u166	Strict for a minute, please. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, this is where we see the abstract face and the false face of the Left, the sychophant, who is leaving ruthlessly implied when the policy that he supports is responsible for thousands of dead. These are the results of the policy of open borders in the Aegean. In 2015 more than a thousand six hundred people drowned in the Aegean Sea with open borders policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u168	Where did you find them, Mr. Varvichiotis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u169	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u170	Read it. Secondly, the amendment has now been incorporated into the text of the report and you can see it and read the Minutes. Your colleagues have it. The Minutes say that I tabled an oral amendment, which was incorporated. Thirdly, to avoid confusing - nobody says that the islands and citizens of the islands must not be relieved of the burden they suffer from your choice to create five hot spots. You don't do this here. You're doing something else here. You say that the low VAT rate is in direct connection with the miserable conditions of overpopulation in hot spots. And the low rates will be maintained as long as the overpopulation conditions are maintained. In fact, Mr President, this shows how they respect human dignity and human life. All the others, who want to repeat and come and say, have proved in the course of events that they are slanderes, which they constantly repeat. I'm returning them in the worst and worst way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u171	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konsolas, has the floor for his second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened carefully, Mr President, to all my fellow Members - speakers, Members of the government majority from the East Aegean. I was surprised. I was surprised, Mr President, that the proposal here is that there are no problems with immigration and that, on the contrary, the problems that exist on the islands are inconsistent with immigration and there are no problems with tourism. And I heard that tourism went very well when colleagues from the south-eastern Aegean know that in Lesvos in July and August, accommodation remained closed. But here, today, we have seen that the Arctic VAT, Value Added Tax, was renamed 'Great Illegal Immigrants'. That's what this bill says. Today it is another page in history and a bill that could have been creative, a bill in which we could have discussed issues in order to deal with both VAT rates and red loans to households and businesses and transport equivalents, it has evolved into a government merrotra in which, unfortunately, it has not solved problems, but only temporarily shifts the solutions to these problems. We once again call on the Government from this Step to table the bill on the resolution of red loans. In addition, the Prime Minister has said since 2015 that he needs to resolve these issues, in 2016, in 2017 government actors, and we have not yet seen this bill. We also want to urge the Government to have a universal application to transport equivalent, because it is a 'block' to the problem and to the wound they have created in the policy for islanders, in relation to the issues of the abolition of reduced rates of VAT. I repeat, universal application means that there is full implementation, to all islands, throughout society, to all the people who visit the islands. There isn't. So we invite them to see it all over again. And thirdly, Mr President, allow me to say, as far as the abolition of VAT rates in the islands is concerned, that it is a abolition which bears the signature of Tsipras - Kammenos. They are the people who said they would cease to be MPs and ministers if they ever ceased. They rejected the coefficients, the only development tool. I would like to stress that when we talk about island policies, as Mr Varvitsiotis points out, we are talking about three pillars of policies: the first pillar is the clause on islands that was passed by New Democracy in November 2013 and the President of the Parliament at the National Representation pledged to be included in all the bills, where possible. The government has not yet done so. The second pillar is VAT rates on islands, which in Europe are even zero. He abolished that tool. And the third pillar is the transport equivalent that the New Democracy had voted for, but which, as we pointed out, is not fully implemented. In closing my position, Mr President, I would like to say that the New Democracy is obliged by time and events to say that it is voting for this bill subject to reservation and that we will soon wait for the relevant bills that the Government has said. As far as the amendment is concerned, we are taking care of it. It has positive references, but let us vote'residents', because the issues relating to the activity of natural, legal persons and entities living and working in the region are not clarified by their forced executions. We therefore vote'residences' in the amendment which Mr Drasakis said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Consola. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Koutsoukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, there has been a debate which I would say differs from the toxic climate in the past few days and we have had the opportunity to put it on the substance of some issues. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, then several praised our amendment to extend the protection of first residence until the end of 2019, in order to study in depth and in cooperation with the institutions the final solution to the problem. He told us that in February, he'd have a setup. I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that this rejection is not of a procedural and formal nature, but it has to do with the substance of the proposal for a law that we have tabled, in Article 37 in particular, to protect the first residence, where we define the wall of 200,000, the property of 270,000 and the annual income for the couple at 25 000. I feel that all the discussions that the government is having with the institutions will go to a much lower level of regulation. And I say it in advance to the government. I call on her to study the substance of the security controls we have put in so that we do not take advantage of any protection arrangements that the so-called strategic misappropriators. My second point concerns VAT. We cannot accept the abolition of the reduced VAT on the islands guaranteed by Andreas Papandreou. I respect all struggles, both local actors and parties, but he guaranteed it. We cannot accept the abolition of the reduced VAT on the islands with the migration clause which the government first introduces into legislation. And neither can we accept the theoreticalisation of this abolition on the basis of a defeated negotiation that I said after 2015, due to the problems that the government then created in the country's economy in general. I am pleased to hear the last speaker of SYRIZA linking reduced VAT with other tax relief measures on the islands. It is precisely, Mr President, that is the second part of our proposal, which says'remaining the reduced VAT for a year and setting up a committee with islands to study all tax incentives on the basis of and the resolutions of the European Parliament and the directives'. Thirdly, I do not want the transport equivalent to the abolition of VAT to be confused. We have voted for the law as a measure which we consider to be incomplete. We have tabled a proposal for its enlargement and its universal application. I should like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that what the SYRIZA Vice-President, Mr Xydakis, said, has given us the opportunity for a joint action, Mr President, and I am addressing the President of this House with you, to settle Parliament's procedures. The House cannot discuss the case of gas and cafés and does not discuss proposals for laws that we have tabled for a year ago on reduced VAT on islands with a report from the General Accounting Office, as well as the proposal for a law on the first measures for economic support and social relief, which also has a report from the General Accounting Office. So come on, let us have a real political debate, say who has the strength of proposals and ideas, and so to speak. This is the challenge that I am addressing to self-criticism - so I take it - Mr Xydakis' position - that in times of anomalies that we were dealing with Prime Ministers, the country was losing. So to keep the country from losing again, to restore normality and to restore political and ideological debate to work for democracy, because otherwise we are working for the enemies of democracy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u175	Good, Mr. Kutsuko. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u176	A vote in favour or a neutral position of the other parties to the opposition is an indirect but clearly legitimising of this bizarre government. Golden Dawn is voting against precisely for this reason, so that it does not legalise this artificial majority. I would remind you that it was created following the invasion of SYRIZA into small parties. In scepticism I read in an electronic form a statement by the Ecumenical Patriarch that the Halki issue is a bilateral issue. Since 1998, the American Congress has called for the reopening of the Theological School of Halki. I repeat that if it is recognized as a bilateral one, and the antidote relates to the mufts of Thrace, it is a ferry door to Thrace. Another unfortunate statement was that of the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, who described the eight proclaimed Turkish soldiers as coups, which did not result from the judicial investigation of the matter. Thirdly, the Golden Dawn has proposed a referendum on the issue of the bill containing the Ambassadors' Agreement. It has retained one brief in all the media regarding this infamous proposal of the Golden Dawn, fully compatible with the relevant articles of the Constitution. The only one who broke the agenda was the present parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis, who actually mentioned it on a show. Mr President, I believe that all Members of Parliament have reason, since this deadline has not expired, to endorse the proposal for this referendum, which is social, legislative and potentially, on the basis of popular veto, an abrogation of the bill containing the Ambassadors' agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u177	The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. I would urge the SYRIZA rapporteur not to be so sad about the attitude of the JRC...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u179	Sometimes it takes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u180	There is no need for that kind of political hypocrisy. If he really wants to be upset - he won't be the only one. And Members of the SYRIZA, even ministers, while they took anti-grassroots measures, applying the third memorandum, to'stabilize' - let him therefore be sad at the results of the anti-grassroots policy which they have implemented four years ago. But I would like to make this clear: the JRC supports the mobilisation of almost all the actors in Samos, and if it wants to know why Mr Pallis calls on him to see some of the requests made by the Samos people and calls him over sixteen - seventeen operators on the island. We support it precisely because we agree with the demands and demands of the people of the islands, because the hot spots must be abolished, that refugees and immigrants should not be caught in the islands, that the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, which is entangled in the islands of refugees, be abolished. And of course they state their solidarity with refugees and immigrants, among other demands that exist. The second thing I would like to say is that the Vice-President of the Government mentioned many issues in his speech, the evolution of dialogue with banks and institutions on the issue of dealing with red loans. Of course, a bill will come in the middle of February and we'll see there, we'll tell our opinion. We know what the government intends and how it tries to implement it. What I want to say now is this: we have put an issue in our prototype. That is why he has not said a word and I would like the Secretary of State for Finance, if he can, to be placed on it. There is therefore a debate on the regularization of the 'problem' of red loans. We raised the issue, what will happen with the workers in the banks involved in the red-loans services? Piraeus Bank has already notified workers that there will be a reduction in jobs, because red loans will either be sold in funds with the employees, i.e. they will be transferred to them, or even to contractors. And we ask in particular: in your dialogue with the bankers this matter is inside? Will you have a positive attitude to the problem of workers facing a specific problem with redundancies or a change in working relations in the event of a transfer? Does this concern dialogue with bankers, i.e. the government with them? The workers are already in mobilization. Do you have anything specific to tell them? Why this cemetery silence around this matter? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u181	We thank Mr Vardalis, who has completed the cycle of the seconds of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. I will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatsiou, with whom we will conclude the debate on the bill and proceed to the vote. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the cradle that has risen over the last few days, the fact that the debate is constantly turning to institutional issues shows precisely the discomfort of counter-population around an objective fact, the fact that the government is here and enjoys Parliament's confidence, the fact that it manages to close historical loose ends and that it helps to ensure peace in our neighbourhood. Soon ago, Alexis Tsipras became the first Greek Prime Minister since 1933 to visit the Theological School of Halki. This is a historic visit to a space - symbol for Hellenism. However, the discomfort of counter-population also relates to the fact that the government continues to go through measures that reverse austerity, support the social majority, give growth impetus. The increase in minimum wages and the abolition of undergraduate for young people to twenty-five years are very important measures that support the world of work and young people. In the new period when we are in conflict two completely different political plans: classic neoliberals and our own policy. By continuing this policy, therefore, in favour of the many, we are considering all measures that can alleviate the world and are fair within our financial possibilities. In this context, we extend the arrangements for reduced VAT to the five islands at the heart of the refugee crisis, Lesvos, Leros, Kos, Samos and Chios. So we made a commitment from the government and from the Prime Minister himself. In fact, the fact that the refugee issue, with the social and economic adversities that this entails, has been accepted by the European authorities as a factor that can affect the VAT system and keep it reduced, is for us something quite positive that has been accepted. Some of the Qualified Opposition were annoyed for this, as were also disturbed by today's publication by friends who are on the media, a press release, to increase deposits and the end of ELA. It was EUR 152.4 billion at the end of 2018 and EUR 137,8 billion at the end of 2017, a restoration sample in the banking system. In other words, we have 14.6 billion in 2018 to increase deposits and the end of the emergency aid mechanism. Not only have they been disturbed, but they have started the dangers, threats, exhortations, known to all of us since the first half of 2015. Nevertheless, citizens' confidence in the government and the financial staff proves, not in words, but in numbers, which you cannot in any way question. In the same context, in today's bill, the main residence protection period was extended. It also extends the application of the transport equivalent to St.Stratis, a pilot application for the equivalent. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with action and not with words. We have a lot to do from now on. Let's just choose the path of acidification. We will try to lay the foundations for fair growth, to make the exit from the memoranda a tangible event for the greater part of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u183	Madam Minister, there is a loose end in terms of the title of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u184	We accept Mr Kontonis' amendment and the title of the bill is added to the words 'and other provisions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Minister. This item is hereby declared as the beginning of the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Repeal of 31 December 2018 Act of Legislative Content “Extension of the possibility of exempting primary residence from liquidation pursuant to Law 3869/2010 (A 130), extension of reduced VAT rates to the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios and extension of the measure of “Transport Equivalent” of Law 4551/2018’ and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the draft law, an article, an amendment, a farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check or revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u186	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u187	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the Minutes and are as follows: By a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 1 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Parliamentary Amendment 1944/40 as a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Present. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. The total majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u188	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Repeal of 31 December 2018 Act of Legislative Content “Extension of the option of optimisation from liquidity pursuant to Law 3869/2010 (A 130), extension of reduced VAT rates in the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios and extension of the measure of "Transport Equivalent" of Law 4551/2018 and other provisions” was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u190	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-06-S1-commons.u191	With the agreement of the House at 15.45 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 7 February 2019 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
