ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Continue the debate on the Government's Programmatic Declarations and vote on the Parliament's vote of confidence in the Government. We will start with two colleagues, Mr Vassilis Economou and Mrs Theano Fotou, then I will give the floor to the Minister, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, and then we will continue with the registered colleagues. In the meantime, we will give the floor to the ministers on the list, as it has been sent by the Government Secretariat. Mr. Economou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u2	In opening up the third day of the Government's Programmatic Declarations, one of the most important parliamentary procedures, I would like to thank almost nineteen thousand of my compatriots and friends who have honoured me for their representation in the Greek Parliament for the ninth time. It was really a very difficult election battle - one of the hardest - the one I gave, but also the most beautiful ones. It was difficult because political coexistence and meeting different social, political and ideological flows in the New Democracy area was not an easy case. It was indeed one of the demands and bets of the last elections, as the President of the New Democracy himself set them out. But it was a very nice election battle, because this bet was won and this political struggle won this meeting with a large majority. I would like to remind you that in the eastern Attica, the election result was a triumphant, with 43.5% on the electorate. However, the same triumphant and important result was the totalitarian result of 40%. The political stake in the last elections, as you can see, was important and I think the country's political problem was resolved in a clear and absolute way with the social majority, which was formed and which gave the political result of the self-reliance of the New Democracy. Self-reliance was the demand and political challenge, which was clearly put into multiple phases in the last political period. I would remind you: European elections, regional elections and national elections. So, unequivocally, an appointment of the electorate with its history and responsibilities. The result of all three times was clear. It was a clear-cut political line about where the country should now be led and the plan with which it should be governed. The Greek people's confidence in this project, tabled in a clear way by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, was definitive and decisive for the development of things. The embarrassment and confusion of the former Prime Minister, who, I think, will be mentioned in the political things and what we call the 'political science and political communication manuals' as the top of political errors - because, for me, breaking elections in three, that is, regional, European elections and national elections, only confusion and embarrassment have been said but, anyway, they have also been collected as a result - they continue after the elections. The reason set out here in the House during the Programmatic Declarations was perplexed by this awkwardness and confusion. I think that adapting to the new data is a political issue and if it is achieved, it will be a benefit to our country and to the course of things. The question as it was put in a very clear way was also a pleasant surprise to me. And I say that, because the consistency of the words is the thing in politics. And, indeed, the Programmatic Declarations, as the Prime Minister put forward, were for me one - I say it again - a pleasant surprise, because there was consistency and stability of the election speeches with the post-elections. It has shown that the plan for the reconstruction of the country, of the middle class and of social policy, as it will be implemented, is a project based on the determination, first and foremost, of the Prime Minister, but also on the pre-design, which, as we said in the election, existed and appeared after the elections. It is therefore very important to implement this plan. I have listened with great satisfaction to the five flagship projects which will give impetus over the next period. I mean, security policy is not a police policy. And I am very pleased, Prime Minister, that at the moment the part of the Exarchites and the policy for the centre of Athens starts with the emblematic work of policy to unify the archaeological site of the Museum along with the Polytechnics. It is not a police matter of Exarchics policy. It is first of all a question of creating, producing new perceptions and new political situations, which can incorporate and give potential to the inhabitants, but also to the entire population that exists in the center of Athens, so that they can live creatively, overcoming minorities and violations. So this policy, together with Tatoi policy, which, overcoming the ideas of the past, will enable Eastern Attica, I would like to supplement because I see Mr Karamanlis here, and it is something that can be used and exploited: the railway connection between the two major ports, Rafina and Lavrio, with the airport is a flagship project which, I think, should continue - and should, in essence, begin - and be completed together with addressing the major problem that I have heard on the agenda. And I am very pleased, Prime Minister, to hear that on Sunday you have dealt with the rubbish issue. It's a crucial issue. It is the problem that has been put under the rug - the garbage under the rug - which they tried to hide. But he's not hiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Economou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u4	I conclude by saying that I am very pleased that this issue is raised and put to the forefront of the problems. I would also like to supplement the issue of the East Attica hospital, an issue that we have worked on and said, Prime Minister, that it will be within the horizon of the next four years. These topics I think they can highlight, push and clearly describe the list of a country that is reorganised, a middle-class that is back on its feet, a new account of a new Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u5	We've been pretty good for the first two days. All right, it was reasonable to have an ego. There will be today. There's three and a half cycles left. I've made a calculation with Mrs. Perifanou and with a relative tolerance to you MPs and ministers, we can finish, to begin the second language of the Heads, around 17.00's and 18.00's this afternoon. If we do that, you realize we don't have to go to 12 o'clock at night. So please let us all do our best to achieve this. Mrs Theanos Fotou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because the debate on social benefits and benefits has prevailed in the public debate in recent years, I will first of all refer to three propaganda lies and a paradox. The first lie, repeated by Mr. Mitsotakis in his Programming Declarations, is that the benefits concern poverty. The Prime Minister is well aware that child benefits - a child's allowance, nursery stations, school meals - amounting to 1,400,000, the allowance for the disabled of EUR 800 million, the home allowance of EUR 350 million not only for the poor but also the middle layers, namely the many. The second falsehood is that for SYRIZA to give benefits and benefits, he exaggerated the middle class by impoverishing it. On the contrary, ELSTAT's recent figures - June 2019, now - showed that the PASOK and New Democracy governments have poored the middle class, since by 2015 one out of six middle-grade citizens went to the poor, while the rest lost 37% of their income. If Mr Mitsotakis reduces the budget for allowances, he will again reduce the incomes of the middle class. The third lie is that benefits are deducted from development resources. It has, however, proved to be developmental, it is money that does not go to offshore, increase consumption, create new jobs. We increased the funds for welfare from EUR 780 million to EUR 3.3 billion in 2019. This account is under threat of being cut to cover the budget gap of 1.8 billion, as we have estimated, created by the Prime Minister's announcements. The only poverty benefit is the CRL, the Social Income of Solidarity. In 2015, in conditions of humanitarian crisis, there was no budget for poverty for seven hundred thousand people who were in extreme poverty and impoverished conditions. The minimum guaranteed income, which Mr Brutsis spoke about yesterday as his own achievement, was a pilot project for 2014, involved thirteen municipalities from the three hundred twenty-five, had a budget of EUR 16 million and was considered ineffective and inadequate in his political implementation. We reviewed it. Therefore, with the humanitarian crisis programme, a solidarity card etc., the CRL and the measures for the child have been reduced in two and a half years - look at ELSTAT's elements - poverty and child poverty before the crisis. See exactly where we reached evidence, that is, 2018. In other words, in simple words, the beneficiaries of the CRL have been reduced because we had had to anticipate their integration into work. Here is the paradox: The New Democracy that does not want the benefits because they recycle poverty, announced that it will increase the number of beneficiaries of the CRL. This can only mean two things in my sense: or he knows that poverty will increase with her policy or is the IMF's well-known recipe, which told us in the negotiation, "You will streamline..." - notice the word - "... the benefits, you will save 1 billion, you will give this money the minimum guaranteed income and that is where you will include all the allowances". For the extreme poor, that is. The terminology of'support criteria', used by Mrs Michailidou recently, is the same that she used by the IMF when demanding benefits cuts. So the problem is not whether you will abolish the four basic allowances, where yesterday Mr Brutsi assured us that he will not be abolished. The problem is if you change the criteria for beneficiaries, so if you reduce the account. We have created a new, exemplary digital welfare and social solidarity state with two digital pillars: on the one hand, the regions and the two forty community centres, on the other hand, the OPECA, which delivers all digital benefits, crosses six databases in one second, without suspicious mediation, abolishing customer relations and corruption. Thus citizens enjoy their rights with dignity. You voted against this. We had a state institution on school lunches. Two hundred thousand children eat every day a hot meal based on the Mediterranean diet against obesity. We had a plan for all primary school, six hundred thousand kids eating each day for free by the end of 2021. You voted against them. Will you remove them? We gave to all the mothers - workers and unemployed - voucher free of charge for their children at nursery stations, that is, a hundred forty thousand vouchers from seventy-nine thousand received in 2015. Question: The right of the unemployed mother to take voucher will you keep it? The disabled get their allowance every day every month. The allowance is inconsistent and tax-free, while 15% of the public's jobs are exclusively for them. Dehydration, roofs of supported living, family support centres, third-age family, was established, while the law of assumption and adoption reduced the waiting time from six to eight years that were in eight to twelve months and braked into infant trade. We are proud of what we have delivered and achieved in four very difficult years and we will defend them, because unfortunately the first ten days of the government are particularly worrying. Firstly, they brought the lifting of the Roma Special Secretariat that had launched the relocation and integration of the Roma, who are staying in impoverished camps, work, education and health with significant European funds that we have earned. Secondly, you have brought about the abolition of the Special Secretariat for Social and Solidarity Economics, which had prepared a programme of aid for a thousand three hundred ESDPs with 47 million. Thirdly, you transferred responsibility for unaccompanied applicants from the General Secretariat of Welfare and Social Solidarity to the Ministry of Civil Protection, not to mention the fact that they are children and their care belongs to the Child Protection and not to the Police.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u7	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the four and a half years of SYRIZA's governance, social and individual rights were extended. Today they are threatened and in danger. They risk the rights of workers, the unemployed, children, the elderly, the disabled, Roma, refugees and migrants. However, individual and social rights are part of democracy. Their threat of shrinking is a threat to democracy. We'll resist. We call on everyone inside and outside the House, we call on the citizens, their organisations to be vigilant, to organise their opposition, not to accept them to take back what they have themselves achieved with so many sacrifices. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u9	The fact is that this policy has been disapproved by the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u10	The Minister has the floor, Mr Costas Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to reply to the previous speaker, but I cannot help noticing that the proud left government of the so-called left cut off the ESS, cut off and reduced the widow's pensions, delayed the payment of pensions, and I think you have no understanding of anything, because if the middle-class were so happy with the policy that you followed, you would not have lost three elections. I now come to our own matters. In the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure we are called upon to combine the direct with the long-term, everyday with growth, the planning of how we all want the country to be in a long-term fashion with improving the everyday life of citizens. So, starting with the infrastructure sector, let me say the following: major projects must not be instruments for the soundness of votes, not of impression or of populism. They are growth tools, they give thousands of jobs, but also in the long term, if you want, they help whole regions to grow, upgrade and escape isolation. In particular, in the current state of our country, a crucial factor in overcoming the crisis is a balanced infrastructure programme. Of course, we all know that the resources today are extremely limited. We all know in this country that there is no money. We therefore need to use the PPP very carefully, but also private funds. We are in front of very important decisions. We don't look good on the situation. We did not do so by election, and we will obviously not do so today either. You will allow me here to say some truths that I think the National Representation should listen to. Firstly, we need absolute respect for public money, transparency and efficiency. We are here to ensure the public interest, the interests of all, not of the few. The Prime Minister, in an election, presented the New Democracy infrastructure programme, and then we started with a basic finding: The model of major discounts or, as the technical world says, the unusually low bids, eventually ends up paying public projects much more expensive and doing so in twice as much time as three times as a year. On the contrary, the concessions, i.e. the private sector's involvement with these large projects, have taught us that this way of implementing the projects is more effective, at less cost than classical public works. I will give you an example, which I think is a characteristic: the Raptomatis tunnel in Tripoli, a two-way tunnel and exactly the same construction conditions. One was made under a concession agreement, i.e. with the private sector within two years. The second was done as a classic public work in fourteen years and at twice the cost. Today I am going to dwell on three projects that have so far been, in our view, an example for avoidance. Firstly, Patras - Tower, a project that was ready for funding five years ago and today would be complete, we received after the decision of the SYRIZA government in 2015 split into eight pieces. Three of the eight projects have not even been signed. One contractor, who had won the four contracts, is all aware that he has huge problems at the moment. The remaining five projects have not even begun to implement the contracts and only one has been paid in advance. The partitions of works almost always lead to rackets or huge delays and the Greek people pays them three times over. Excessive discounts put the project at risk. The culmination, ladies and gentlemen? The previous government was supposed to have launched an election project. But do you know what we received in the fifth contractor? A dump with fifty thousand tonnes of garbage and the contractor's demand to get two million euros to clean up the garbage from the contractor. As it is today - this is what the entire technical world knows - we are at a dead end. It's out of the question to discuss whether it'll be delayed or lost money. The work is literally in the air and needs a radical solution. We are studying the alternatives to the Ministry in detail. We are in constant contact with the European Commission, so that we can reach a solution as quickly as possible and with guaranteed funding. We are committed to doing this and to doing it. Second project: Aktio - Ambrosia. To date it has cost - listen -6.1m euros per kilometre without studies and project supervision. It started in 2010 with four budget contractors EUR 142 million. In 2017, a contractor - broom - was auctioned to complete the budget project - pay attention to -160m euros, that is, more expensive than the original budget, more than four projects together. But we all know that the project is in the air, because we have judicial involvement and it was auctioned in the wrong way. This is how supposedly large discounts work. That's how the partitions work. Projects are delaying, getting out of every timeframe and are never properly structured. So we are also called upon to review the tender, to give the best solution here to complete this work at last, so that we can finish with the great revolutionary words that eventually bring ten years of delays in major projects, additional conventions which are the joy of the contractor and economic excesses. Thirdly, with regard to BOAK, you say that it has been auctioned. The truth is, an idea and a sketches have been auctioned. As it is planned, everyone knows in Crete that the project is not going to start, because we are talking about three individual projects, with three different ways of tendering, in fact about a partition, without studies and most of all, without environmental approval. What are we planning on doing? Initially, this bizarre architecture of the project needs to be considered and changed. Let's finally start the studies. We can't auction works without having studies. This is not happening anywhere in the world. Empty the environmental work. We will not just activate the OPEC again, which unfortunately the previous Minister for Infrastructure has put on the shelf, but we will substantially strengthen it and then start their tender procedures. Of course, we have other major issues in the Ministry these days, such as the Attica road issue, which employs millions of users. After negotiations with the previous government, the consortium announced increases in tolls. This was because these negotiations obviously did not end up anywhere. So the Attica Road announced an increase in tolls within the election period. You'll tell me, did he have a contractual right to do so? Yeah. Is she right? Of course not, because he did not respect the citizens who are users of this road in particular. We will not sit, ladies and gentlemen, with our hands crossed. One thing is certain, and we must stress this: the new government will not be able to accept it in its entirety, as it has many ways of reacting. In addition to this, we plan to move quickly on to projects that are in progress or are stuck. Of course, as we have already mentioned many times, the most important thing is to prepare a strategic plan for the new generation of projects that will boost the market and change the image of the country in the years to come, because we cannot have this phenomenon that we have in Greece, whenever the government changes, every time the Minister changes everything. We refer to projects that will be fully documented. There will be feasibility and sustainability studies, and there will, in any case, be what foreigners say, a simple feasibility plan. In this context, in our programming we have to solve the huge problems in Kastelli and finally start this project. Let us move quickly on to projects which are already being implemented, such as in the southern part of E65. To proceed with the competitive procedures on Line 4 of Metro, Alsos Beikos - Goudi, despite the many problems that exist, as well as on the Athens and Thessaloniki Metro projects, with a definitive solution for the Egnatia and Agia Sophia stations. And this will be done in full cooperation with the Ministry of Culture. To proceed with the competition of the Salamina submarine road link with Perama, which has been delayed many years. To proceed with the implementation of a series of projects that we have already announced, such as Elefsina - Material, the extensions of the Ionian Road with Agrini and Cakavia, Drama - Amphipolis - Egnatia. To complete the design and implementation of a national rail network in Athens - Thessaloniki, a border in Athens - Patras, because we must also attach great importance to the maintenance of the national rail network. The state must do everything it can to prevent accidents and not run after them. However, we attach particular importance to projects for the safety of citizens. Within two weeks the government and the Ministry directly addressed the natural disasters in Halkidiki, as well as the recent earthquake in Athens. The Ministry of Infrastructure has responsibility for what projects have been designated as a national level, at the request of the regional bodies. We are also planning the auctioning of ten anti-military projects totalling EUR 430 million, which - and this is correct - have been launched by the previous government and will continue to do so. However, we are also paying particular attention to institutional amendments. We said it as opposition, and we say it now: we don't care to take everything out. We won't change Law 4412 and Law 4413. We will improve them with small, but significant changes that apply to all the countries of the European Union, such as the possibility of supervising public projects where private companies need to be supervised, feasibility and sustainability studies for large projects and, furthermore, we will consider the possibility of tendering for innovative projects. We are interested in the essential innovations, the new modern financial instruments. We must finally make use of ideas and solutions tried abroad, because in this country we must finally stop discovering the wheel. We attach great importance to the preparation of studies which may also be controlled by individuals. That's how we're gonna save a lot of time. We are aiming to create an expropriation observatory where criteria, prices, conditions, process and monitoring of all expropriations in the country are gathered. At the same time, we will implement something that is happening everywhere in Europe, the project register, which is also a proposal from the TEU. The State will be able to know, for example, the projects of competence to each body per municipality, per district or public company and who is responsible for their maintenance. But also in the transport sector, there are a lot of things we are focusing on. The primary role is to invest in combined transport, to develop Piraeus, the ports of the north and mainly of Thessaloniki as gateways of entry. The rail network will extend the sea corridor that connects Asian markets with Piraeus to a land corridor for product transfer in central Europe and strengthen the ports of the north will upgrade northern Greece to the area of Logistics. New Democracy's strategic choice for 'COSCO' at that time has hardly been exploited. We must not waste any more time. With regard to the waterways, our aim is to revise the problematic legislative framework that exists and, as we have stressed, does not facilitate their development. In addition to this, we must focus on rationalising urban transport in Athens and Thessaloniki and a four-year horizon, as the Prime Minister said the other day, in the implementation of a strategic plan for electricity mobility in the major cities, our first objective is to renew public transport by urban buses, but - look - with transparency and avoid problematic competitive procedures announced a few days before the elections, always with respect to public money. The government of SYRIZA has unfortunately left its seal very strong in urban transport. We are talking here about the daily lives of the citizens and, as a rule, the non-preferential ones. Citizens from us must be treated with respect. In Athens we have a dramatic decline in the bus fleet and the number of routes, the deterioration of the services provided, increased ticket prices. In Thessaloniki the image is much worse. It's dramatic. Today in Thessaloniki there are no more than two hundred forty with two hundred sixty buses. Fleet reduction, virtual routes, collapse of telematic, dramatic revenue decline. We have a state-owned body that receives 200% subsidy when the European norm is 40% to 60%. So here that we have arrived immediately, we are drawing up a crisis management plan to avoid the worst, that is, the collapse of the OSH. No wonder we can't do, no magic wands we don't have. But we won't be back in the past either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u12	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u13	I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, the damage has already been done and the European Commission, which has approved the only pan-European state-running after 20 years, is also responsible for this issue. What does he need now? First, to use all the competent OSH executives, without party baffles, as happened in the past, but with merital criteria. Second, change of administration. Just before I close, I would like to tell you, with regard to saving resources, that we will consider whether we can merging, especially in organisations that have the same object. Finally, I would like to refer to the driving schools and the tragedy of hundreds of thousands of people and especially the people who are over seventy-four years old. Trainers, candidate drivers, everyone is in an incredible hostage. The absolute irrationality. Next week we will take initiatives so that we do not see these images of shame that we see. In conclusion, I wish to commit to you today that, as long as we live in this ministry, as much as I and my partners, we will work on specific principles. Responsibility, transparency, quality, fair rules for all. Open mind and emphasis on innovation, absolute respect for public money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u14	We will proceed as follows. The floor will now be taken by Mr Thanasis Papachristopoulos, then by Mr Tragakis, then by Mr Marios Salmas and then by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Stylianos Petsa. Mr. Vitsas, Mr. Rousopoulos, Mr. Lambroulis, Mr. Vayonas and Mrs. Zacharakis will then speak. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u15	I would like to welcome my new colleagues first. It is an unprecedented, shocking experience of the plenary session. I know what I'm saying. The same feeling we felt four and a half years ago. I want to tell them that, regardless of which party they belong to, at least from us old people will have our support for any question or problem. First of all, with all due respect to Mr Karamanlis, I would like to remind him that the CSCE was passed at the end of 2014. I'll say it again. It was adopted in order to implement its repeal at the end of 2014. I want to start with a book that I read thirty years ago, the "Geopolitics of Chaos" of Ignasio Ramonet. It was a book that he had actually predicted with mathematical accuracy what would happen on the planet many decades later. "They who will gather the media will also have power," Ignasio Ramonet said in "Geopolitan Chaos". And the notion was. There will be no real democracy when few people, very few, control the media. If it has to do with Greek reality or not, you can draw your conclusions. I now come to the point. I have listened very carefully to many colleagues and I want to start with some positive ones. It's good to see Nikos Treasury Minister for Foreign Affairs. Along with Nikos Treasury We made almost parallel statement two years ago that foreign policy with rallyings and the clergy can't be done. In his honor, Nikos Dendias never went to a rally. So I was pleased that the Prime Minister appointed this policy. We might have a lot to split up. But other opponents with respect and not enemies. I was also pleased to see Margaret Sword take over as commissioner. I want to start with the positive ones. It's not bad. He's a man who fought next to Juncker for many years, and he's really been doomed. I was very pleased that this man never ran and has always been in favour of the Treaty of Ambassadors. But I have a few complaints. The Prime Minister's gone. I personally wanted to address him. I don't like the farts, I don't like the fatalities. I'm one of the MPs I felt on my side what violence would mean. Not just me, but other colleagues. My house went to fire five to six months ago. My life had become hell. I couldn't even make a phone call. They took me from all over the planet and threatened me. Other colleagues have suffered this. A car of fun I've got, they broke it twice or three times. I thought and I believe that violence, when you have different opinions, should not have a place in politics. I'm talking low tones, and I'm saying this. A piece of extremism in New Democracy dragged the dance of this violence. That's where I want to make my criticisms to the current Prime Minister, because he saw it, he knew, but he didn't do anything. It is a grievance that I believe will be corrected in the future, because I believe that here we must coexist with our contradictions - the rule of democracy - as opponents who respect each other and not as enemies. I see an over-response which is currently being done by the government to abolish the simple analogue to the municipalities and perhaps later try what we have already legislated at national elections. I want to remind you that the municipalities were a farm of corruption. The almighty mayor decided which suppliers he would get, what he would do more. And I believe that the fact that a simple analogue was voted on in the municipalities gave the right to control even a municipal councillor. Why are you trying to abolish this? And why do you try? I would like to remind you that if the country fell out, if it went bankrupt, if it was looted, that was because there were beastly almighties, whether from PASOK or from New Democracy. If you've forgotten, I remind you. Simple analogue forces parties to cooperate. It's a step forward, it's not a step back. I'm ringing a bell for KINAL, because I think a lot of his executives don't share that view. Finally, without abusing time, Mr President, I would like to appeal to the Prime Minister, because I have heard the Minister of Labour triumph about the undisturbed vine. The first thing he did was the deprivation that caused young children. For those you don't know, I've lived in hospitals for many years. 60% - 80% of those coming are children of economic migrants or refugees. Yesterday to change the AMKA regime for at least these little children, Mr. Brutsi! These kids need it. No one ever singled them out, even the one with very extreme views. It is my call to the Prime Minister to take the ear of his Minister and, as far as children, at least children are concerned, to abolish. It's a far-right message and I don't think there should be. I want to believe that my request will be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u16	We proceed with our dear Mr. Ioannis Tragakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I consider my obligation as the oldest parliamentarian in this Chamber to address the National Representation, speaking nationally and not partyly. That is what the debate on the Programmatic Declarations of a government which has recently received a fresh folk mandate requires. The citizens' crisis in the elections of 7 July closed the accounts with the past and opens a new political cycle for the future. However, this does not prevent me from making a reference to what Mr SYRIZA mentioned earlier in terms of social benefits. The Prime Minister expressly and unequivocally in the Programmatic Declarations he read the day before yesterday, said that none of them were abolished. So bringing this back, I think, at least it is not beneficial in the climate that has been created. After a decade of crisis we put aside many of the things that have hurt us, division, toxicity, false polarization, to rediscover the essence of politics, to upgrade Parliament's role - a very important issue - to highlight culture and quality in our political speech, to restore the authority of politics in the eyes of citizens. He was raised by the Prime Minister himself in his speech on Saturday saying "we are political opponents, but we are not enemies, nor are we seeking the extinction of each other." And, of course, it is a very important victory for democracy and for parliamentarianism that the Nazi structure of the Golden Dawn will no longer be in this Chamber. It was a bet for us in the New Democracy and the Prime Minister personally and we did it. Ladies and gentlemen, reading the New Government's Programmatic Declarations gives rise to vision, optimism, but also to realism, plan and determination. But allow me, first and foremost, to stand on the two announcements by the Prime Minister for my region, the multitude of Piraeus II. I should like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow citizens who have shown their confidence for many years. However, I should also like to thank my fellow citizens, the Prime Minister, for the fact that projects that were a matter of decades for our region are being launched. The first intervention concerns the Korydallos prisons, which are leaving and transported outside the urban fabric. Old facilities are demolished and a large park with sports and artistic creation spaces will be created, giving breath not only to Korydallos but also to all nearby neighborhoods. The second intervention we discussed with the Prime Minister a few days before the elections when he visited Keracini and Drapetson - the Prime Minister made fourteen visits to my constituency as Chief of Police Vice-Population - and we visited the fertiliser region together with the mayor. This intervention concerns the two acres in the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas converted into a metropolitan park - a requirement of decades of the area - with sports and artistic activities. At the same time, an international innovation centre is being set up, in cooperation with large foreign technology companies. Ladies and gentlemen, in his speech on the Government's Programming Declarations, the Prime Minister has shown that not only has he been prepared for a long time, but also that he has a very high perception of the country's valuable time. It set out the policies, fields, objectives, concrete measures, the timetable for the policies it will implement. He has demonstrated that his Programming Declarations are indeed the epitome of the coherent governance plan. Both the Prime Minister and his ministers spoke about their own area of responsibility and expressed a double message of credibility to our partners, stressing that the country will not promptly question the objectives of the primary surpluses that the SYRIZA government committed to the country and that this will be done in 2020 in connection with the reconstruction plan for national property, as it has said, and towards national and international markets by the message that the bureaucratic obstacles to investment will be scanned, that the Greek will become the symbol of the new era, that the Skouries will go ahead - with a special reference to the deprivation of ELPE and "Free Venizelos" - and internally to citizens and businesses with the announcements of direct and medium-term tax reductions and HNPI, proving that our commitments are taking place. The two tax bills that will come to Parliament - one at a time will come within the week and under the urgency procedure - provide for major changes: direct reduction in HPAI by 22%, reduction in business tax from 28% to 24% and then 20%, reduction in the tax on dividends from 10% to 5%, suspension of VAT on building, suspension of tax and goodwill, a 40% reduction in energy, functional and aesthetic upgrade of buildings, a reduction in the tax rate for incomes of up to EUR 10,000 from 22% to 9%, a gradual abolition of the solidarity levy and the trade fee, a reduction of insurance contributions from 20% to 15%, a reduction of VAT from 13% to 11% and from 24% to 22% to 22%. At the same time, the Prime Minister announced the first bills already set up by the government, which serve our programme for the new terminal and its organisation, for the development, with a view to national and international investment, of the right to vote on Greeks abroad and the new local government, to modernise and digitise public administration, independent justice, transparency and civil protection, for education at all levels, for rural development, for public health. Ladies and gentlemen, on my long political path I do not remember planning government statements that inspire confidence, confidence, the optimism that the country is finally looking ahead. I do not remember hearing more structured, more rational, more modern, more unified political speech from the Prime Minister in reading government's programming statements. The lies and demagogy belong to Greece of the crisis, they belong to the past. The Greeks were tired of the many words, of demagogy and incapacity. They ask for fewer promises and more tangible results. They ask for safety, jobs, lower taxes, better life for themselves and for their children. That is why I am voting in favour of the government's Programmatic Declarations leading our country in the future with security and perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u18	We shall proceed with Mr Mario Salma. Mr. Salma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the ninth time that I have had the honour of the Aetolian carnages to participate in the debate on draft government statements. I'd like to tell you what my experience shows me. We must not forget that changing a government is a skateboarding. One runner picks up from the previous one, but all the runners are on the same team. Our aim is to run the country forward. Obviously, one receives from the other because it has a different programme, a different view of politics and the way in which a better result can be achieved for citizens and for the country. Let's not forget that. The first crucial issue therefore arises. It would be a little important to reiterate the Prime Minister's excellent Programming Declarations, which we all know about. I'll take advantage of the six minutes that time gives me to show what's the matter. Do we all agree that this is the success of a government? I would remind you that following the election of the SYRIZA government in 2015, I had wished that this government, in public, would succeed on television. I did this because we must not forget that all - all three hundred - must want this government to succeed. Are you considering anyone who wants to fail this government or any government? So this is served by a contribution to a government's effort, not by contrast and by bringing in obstacles to this government's success. So if we see and realize its role, the opposition must make a creative contribution to achieving by the government, then I think it will improve both the political climate and the level of political controversy. The second point is respect for the result. When we start with a new government, we must respect all three hundred of them, that is, what the citizens wanted to do. Obviously the different views we have may not have been the subject of a majority or a minority, but respect for the majority is required and what the citizens have found in the programme of a government that takes over. This respect leads to time credit from the Opposition to the Government after they understand the differences. So the time credit must be visible and legitimate. You must give it to the government this time credit. The third point I would like to make is the starting point from which a government begins. The starting point is upon delivery - receipt. It is always customary for a government that feels like it has come to be auctioned, whether it reverses the outcome and wins part of the audience, to support it in the elections, not to mention the impact these measures have on the election eve of the next government. Fortunately, over the past ten years, the political system has matured and the crisis has taught us and limited our potential to leave 'burned land', as the previous governments have left each other in the past decades. In any case, however, the outgoing government has not prevented the temptation to vote backwards, which would have a financial impact on the next government. The starting point again matters. This government does not receive from a prosperous economy. It does not receive a country that is in incredible redevelopment dynamics and at a growth rate of 5%. He receives an economy compressed to 2%, with a simple management he couldn't get out. Also, the 'turn over', the impact of measures voted by a government, comes to the next several times. I would remind you that the reduction of unemployment has impacted fines for uninsured work, the '10,500' which was then forced, in the next year, to declare uninsured insured persons. A fourth point which I would like to highlight is the time to implement the measures. On many occasions, the government announces measures, including those which have budgetary costs at the end of the four-year period and which have a benefit at the beginning, and what we have seen from Prime Minister Mitsotakis is that it has announced measures with a budgetary impact from the outset and even more than it had been committed in the run-up to elections. So time is important, too. Another parameter to be judged in the Programmatic Declarations is consistency. This effect appeared to be characteristic of the ENPIA, which is a measure concerning the Greek people and which the Prime Minister decided to bring earlier than he had committed. An important parameter for the new government is the political environment. No government can deliver within a political environment of tension, controversy and with people, opposition, on the road to resist and create a picture of political instability. So political stability and the political climate are very important for the government, which, as we have said, is our main objective here. So everyone from the Opposition should understand that political culture is rewarded. If New Democracy took 40% in the crisis, it is because the world rewarded that the Samaras government supported - here we voted - a hundred measures brought by Mr Papandreou, who was an eternal political opponent. I mean, as PASOK. We have convened with a left party, with DRMAR and PASOK, which has been our opponent for years and we have not hesitated to vote on the third memorandum here. And if SYRIZA brought it after a failed semester. The constructive attitude of counterpopulation is being retarded. And all this creates a psychology in the market, if we all do it right. Imagine being an investor and waiting to invest in a country how much easier you will do if you know that it has a political system that is serious and mature and if you have to go to a country that is plagued by political divisions and political controversies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u20	And that's what you're closing up with, Mr. Salma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude anyway, Mr President. I will close by saying - I would not, but it has something to do with what I said - that political division did not favour the country. I was one of those people who lived the political division in the last four years. I went to the elections as a suspect on a case. Here the polls were set and for some of you who are here today, they arrived to refer to the 'NOVARTIS' case! Five days after the election, the case was filed for me. It's a little bit of a staff. The lesson is important, that is, that we are not here to provoke national divisions, nor to target political opponents, nor to edict anyone. I'm closing up with what I started. We are peddlers of a skateboarding that we are doing to serve the country, and that is what we are judging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u22	The Foreign Minister, Mr Stylianos Petsas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to address the representatives of the Greek people. Moreover, it is the responsibility of the Greeks, of all those who expect the new government to see their lives get better, to have stable and good work, to pay less taxes and contributions, to have better health and education services, to feel safe in homes, neighborhoods, universities, to feel proud again that are Greeks. To do all this, the Greeks trusted Mr.Mitsotakis. They believed in our reform plan that leaves the economic crisis behind and ensures a new perspective for all. In the past ten years, our homeland has suffered an economic, social, moral crisis. In the economy, Greece until 2018 continued to deviate from the Eurozone and the other developed economies. Over the last four and a half years, structural reforms and privatizations have been put in place and, unfortunately, confidence has been evaporated. At the same time, the public was reincreased, while the private sector was kneeled by overtaxation, lack of liquidity and anemic investment. In the elections of 7 July 2019, the citizens instructed us to return a page. Our Greeks trusted with their vote the future of our children and future generations, our common future. And in order for this future to be brighter, it needs wisdom and hard work, vision, design and program. He needs realism, but also faith in our country's potential. With this in mind, we are starting, determined to do the complete plan that we have tabled in election and specialises this three-day project in the Programming Declarations. The first signs in the economy and markets are already encouraging. It restores the trust of the investment community in our country. And trust is alpha and omega for every economy. The issue of a seven-year bond a few days ago, at historically low interest rates and with the participation of long-term investors, constitute a vote of confidence in the development prospects of our economy. This confidence we are determined to stimulate, immediately promoting real reform areas of our own property and achieving the objective of primary surpluses for 2019 and 2020, so that we can claim from our partners the reduction of primary surpluses at a more realistic level in 2020. That is what we had said in election, and many times too. But the Chief and the officers of the C.P.D. pretend they didn't hear it. So we repeat this: we regain confidence and demand a reduction in primary surpluses, because the reduction in surpluses contributes to speeding up growth. And that is in the common interest of Greece and of the partners. Our plan is based on a different philosophy, more entrepreneurship-friendly, growth, the creation of new jobs and social justice. In this draft top position is the tax bill. We combine the reduction of taxes and contributions with the simple and effective state of service of the citizen. We have been reducing HNVIA by 22% as early as this year and we have provided an integrated tax incentive grid to regain the value they have lost. We reduce the income tax for all, the tax on businesses and dividends. We gradually abolish exceptional charges imposed in the years of the crisis, such as the special solidarity levy and the trade fee. We are dealing with the overcompensation of households and businesses. We improve the regulation of a hundred and twenty doses and suspend enforcement measures to those who join and remain in it. We are making use of all the tools at our disposal to deal with red loans. We support the family and the financially weak. For the family, the core of our nation, we grant 2,000 euros for every child born and we increase the tax-free limit by 1,000 euros for every child, while we promise that no child will be left outside the nursery. For the economically weaker we are strengthening the minimum guaranteed income with an additional 240 million in order to benefit eight hundred thousands of our fellow citizens living in extreme poverty, Mrs Fotius. We are strengthening the sense of security for citizens. We are guarding our borders which are Europe's borders. We guarantee human conditions for refugees and immigrants and we speed up asylum procedures. We are abolishing the asylum of violence and lawlessness at universities. We are now reconstructing the DELTA Group and strengthening the DIA Group with the intake of a thousand five hundred police officers. We mitigate the negative consequences of the bad and harmful Prespecies Agreement. We attract investment and improve the quality of life of the citizens with five iconic works in Athens and Thessaloniki. The National Archaeological Museum is expanding. The Corridal prisons are transported out of urban web. The former royal estate in Tatoi is being exploited. The two hundred four acres of Drapetson become a metropolitan park. The facilities of IDU are transformed into a modern green space. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the specific issues of my portfolio. First of all, the media issues are returning to where most of the governments of post-multi-population were, to a State Secretary with the Prime Minister, who is also carrying out the debts of a government representative. The criticism, therefore, of the intention to gather these responsibilities to the Prime Minister only comes from a micro-political debate and is unfounded and hypocritical. As far as the media area is concerned, we all know that they have been affected by the multiannual crisis. At the same time, however, the new digital age has created new opportunities and changed the way we all know. So to respond to the new challenges we are planning: first, modernisation and upgrading of the services of the Secretariat-General for Information and Communication. Secondly, the reorganisation of the Special Secretariat for Communication Crisis Management. Thirdly, restoring confidence and shielding the independence of public television with respect for taxpayers' money and ensuring pluralism and the quality of its vision. Fourthly, redefinition of the brand Athenian News Agency to become synonymous with the objective, immediate, complete and valid information through synergies both in Greece and abroad. Fifthly, the removal of distortions created in the broadcasting landscape, always on the basis of the Constitution, transparency and the necessary legislative stability to attract investment, will ensure the sustainability of the instruments and jobs in the sector. Sixth, modernisation of the regulatory framework for the entire Greek, regional and local press. Seventh, transposition into national legislation of Community Directive 1808/2018 on the provision of audiovisual media services. Eighth, to develop a national audiovisual policy through Greece's active participation in all the relevant audiovisual working groups of the Council of the European Union. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let us all commit ourselves before the Greek people that, on the anniversary of the two hundred years of the Greek Revolution, our country will already have made a brave economic, institutional and political resumption. This is our national objective and at the same time our debt to our children and future generations. The Greeks can regain our lives, look into the eyes of our children without guilt, offer all families prospects and genuine real hope for a better future. We'll all be together together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u24	Now we start the fourth of speakers who, as we have said, are Mr Vitsas, Mr Rousopoulos, Mr Lambroulis, Mr Vayonas and then Mrs Zacharakis. Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas is called for in Stepma. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going straight to the point. I am particularly concerned about the overall management of the immigration - refugee. I hear about immigration all the time, and the previous Minister said something, but, in fact, I do not really hear anything about it. The Deputy Minister yesterday declared his presence with an unwillingness to the Bureau, but, as far as his point is concerned, what he said was not even a report of ideas. It was more clear that his Minister, who at least asked for time and promised a job. That's actually what he said. But practices in the course of the few days show a terrible perception that immigration is a matter of security and an undercover idea that refugees and immigrants are something like invaders. It's not. Ignore the subject. Heals if you try to learn and ask. It's not cured if you have the arrogance of all knowledge. I have dealt with immigration - refugees either as Deputy Minister of National Defence or as Minister of Migration Policy for over four years and I can assure you that I am still learning. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I fully endorse the church's 'on earth peace, in human goodwill'. But the refugee - immigration issue is not handled with wishes, it is a reality. It's not either a challenge or a problem. It is something that concerns Greek society and European society. We have created, on the one hand, a system of reception, identification, examination of asylum requests, hospitality, medical care, education. We have created and started to implement the national integration strategy. We delivered to the next government an open road by the end of 2019 with financial instruments and cash flows. We have already won EUR 400 million from the European Union for Greece for 2020 and the promise of an additional EUR 60 million. And please or I urge you not to hear the financial management plans again. You say and say again about transparency, we have said "openly all books", you have not been found or brought a single element, so it is very hypocritical and, in short, slanderous or your position. The system we have created has difficulties, it is imperfect, it is tired, but use it. You have time and understanding. No one's gonna criticize you for the flow. You can't do much, especially now that the sea cools and the waters of Evros fall. But you must insist on the triangular agreement between the European Union, Turkey and Greece. We've set her up with trouble and paid off. Take advantage of the multi-level consultation with Turkey. Start thinking - and with you too - changes to the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration. Whatever it is said, even by my colleagues, this statement led to a 96% reduction in flows from 2015 to 2018. But don't put all your money on the payroll. Turkey gives full guarantees only for Syrians, but Syrians no longer come. In the name of the master of the port, Mr. Kyriakos Papadopoulos, in the name of the SGP sergeant of the Mississippi, who fell into the sea to save the disabled woman and then resurrected into the sea to take out her stroller, I exorcise you: don't even think of push back to the sea. They only lead to drowning. We don't want it, you don't want it, you won't find men and women of the port and warship or police to do it. Make use of our programme for recruitment of contract asylum operators to the islands. We've reduced the time by 50%, do it even faster, we'll be with you. But don't think about abolishing the Appeals Committees, because all cases will be brought to the administrative courts and a few months from now the final decision will take years. We created twelve Committees, in 2018, 2019 we made 20 and the 2020 plan is thirty. Reflect on the new mayor at the background of Samos and the president of the Mytilians. By September - at the latest - the new FST must work. You have the space, you have the plans, you have the partner, you have the funding. In mainland Greece you have the program "ESTIA", twenty-five thousand stay in houses. You have the program "PHILOXENIA", where eight thousand people stay until the end of November in hotels. You have the ELIOS accession programme, which concerns ten thousand people. You have the Education Program, which involves 12 and a half thousand children. You insist that "EXTIA" be made at thirty thousand. Create two new temporary hospitality centers in Vajori and Kyfelochori. You'll have reactions, I know. They last five days. Then xenophobia retreates, people understand and the Ministry of Migration Policy has its own contribution to victory over the Golden Dawn. Prime Minister, quickly undo your decision to subject the services of the HNDG to the Ministry of Civil Protection. I worked excellently with the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of National Defence. Mr. Chrysochoidis, you have in your ministry a number of personalities with prestige in Greece, Europe and Turkey, with the first Lt-Gen Zacharula Tsirigotis. Talk to her, he's an excellent counselor. And so is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have never asked the political background of senior officials and officers, but they have never wondered between their ideology and political position on the one hand and their duty towards their homeland and human rights on the other. They chose the second one. You have in your government, you have in your parliamentary group such people. Ask them and speak with them to understand. Mr. Brutsi, quickly take back the cancellation circular of AMKA performance. You will not find doctors and nurses who will step on their Hippocrates vow because the patient has no AMCA and is a different color or race. But, without AMKA - and there is your question - the HELIOS programme, the MAN's programme with the Ministry of Labour, the MAN's programme with the Ministry of Rural Development stays very well. Don't let your fears or the administrative burden lead you. Let reason lead you. I talked about the programs and I remembered another spasm movement. What are you doing? Remove the post of the Sectoral Secretary for Immigration. It's a vengeance act. He is the only secretary who has completed the legal procedure and has been chosen by the AACC to be such a secretary. Instead, this is not your priority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Vitsa, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u27	In a minute, Mr. President. Your priority is the reconstruction of the RIS - the bill is in Parliament - the reclaiming of the new programme for the transfer of twenty thousand to other European Union countries, based on a transitional programme, the completion of the relocation of a thousand people to Portugal, the completion of the assistance of 20 million from Norway, the relocation of unaccompanied minors to Ireland, Great Britain and elsewhere. Be careful, the spasm moves can create refugee directors, in Victoria Square, in Drahsanium, in Igoumenitsa, in Patras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Vitsa, please close. You're a Vice President too, or I wouldn't let you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u29	I respect that, Mr President. Mr. Chrysochoid, bad lies. I do not care if Mr Theodorikos is offended or offended by your yesterday's report. You're not an Interior Minister. All over Europe, the police are under the Ministry of Interior. He's not the Minister of Citizen Protection above the Minister of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, to close, we are defending values, policies, adapted programmes, society and people, and we will continue to do so. Gentlemen of the government, remember the words attributed to Agathon: "You rule according to the laws, you rule people and you will not rule forever." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u30	Mr Theodoros Rousopoulos, a newly elected colleague from the New Democracy, has a turn. Experience behind the microphone, I wish every success.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the people's mandate of 7 July includes the experience of the ten-year crisis. Our generation may not have known the tragedy of war, but it has met with history in a turning of economic problems and with social values. The crisis is ripening people and there are changes. The decade has changed us all. At first it made our people more sceptical about politics and politicians. He questioned their effectiveness and their intentions. He then made a large portion of our people more aggressive and more critical. Some in the competitive atmosphere, which surrounded life after the outbreak of the crisis, were led to the extremes by making choices that proved to be gruesome and dangerous to our democratic community. The popular mandate, given on July 7 to New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in addition to the experience of the ten-year crisis, also includes hope, hope and expectation, which wants the country to go better. This is what the New Democracy has said to the people in election, that it will do on all fronts, what is necessary for the country to go better. In this great movement of necessary and necessary, the life of every Greek and every Greek woman will be improved. What matters now is that we move on to a sense of rebuilding so that with an economy that is alive, which is a prerequisite for everything, we can support fundamental goods. It is unsurpassed that a society, which does not produce new resources, cannot cover fundamental and basic goods. Therefore, the best functioning of the economy is not an end in itself, it is a means of multiplying resources so that we can support the priority goods in our citizens' lives, the good of education, the good of health, the good of security. The Prime Minister pointed out in his speech that calming in the economy, climate change in everyday life passes through the confidence that the citizen must feel in his way, in his work, in his home, in his university. "How does this contribute," he questioned former Minister of SYRIZA "with the light Europe?" trying to identify the concept of security with anti-democratic regimes. The answer is very simple, if no one just wants to codify, but returns to the sources and gets into the essence of things. Security was the basic asset in the Western society of Enlightenment and was included in the second article of the Declaration of Human Rights, along with the right to freedom, ownership and resistance to oppression, of any kind of oppression, from wherever it comes. The golden rule of security was violated by right-wing or left-wing groups, who decided to take the law into their hands or, more often, to make their own laws. This sad parentheses in the Greek political scene must be closed and we shall do so with the Government of New Democracy. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to highlight something that I believe has a particular dimension. What, in my view, is of great importance today is the realization of the conditions, the conditions that characterize the phase, which we are experiencing and the time when we are living. And that is why government vigilance is absolutely essential so that it can meet the needs of this time. Having now taken important steps in reconstructing our political space in recent years, we will be - I am sure - and as a government open to the world. Our country has an excellent human potential and can revitalise its economy and can stand in a new way in the world and can speak in a new way with citizens. The Government has the necessary determination. All of us who support it with our word, our example, with our active involvement and, first of all, with all those responsible for every area of political implementation of our programme, must do something further, perhaps the most difficult. Inspiring, inspiring citizens. We should constantly explain, so that I am aware, that we can proceed with the citizens. To show them, not just that the dream becomes reality, but the satisfaction that we have been able to do better. We therefore need a new inspiration, with innovation, new proposals and new ideas, which, through the deed and the implementation of another policy, build a new confidence. This new trust is the solid foundation for an effective course. With the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on this road we will proceed. We are voting for this government of confidence and I invite you to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u32	We proceed with Mr Georgios Lambroulis, F Vice President and Member of the Communist Party of Greece from Larissa. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. The main issue - a problem for people's health care is that today, like the previous government, but also for other urban parties - shape their policy and positions, in line with the guidelines of the European Union and capital, namely how state, insurance and health care expenditure - a component of so-called non-wage costs - will be reduced to the minimum and uniform level for all. This requires the development of the capitalist economy, the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. The overturns at work, with the extension of working life, income, working hours, unemployment, free time, housing, nutrition, etc., constitute a deterioration in living conditions that are prematurely damaging and directly and in the medium term to people's health and are in complete contrast with the prevention and promotion of the health of the people, who, otherwise, are hypocritically invoking all other parties. With the governmental rotation of the main health issues, welfare, medicine, will be a continuation and acceleration of the anti-grass restructuring, incorporating all the previous measures of the previous governments, since all parties, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, Change Movement, adopted, as part of their strategy of collapsing public spending and benefits, such as the various captives and supplements of the EEA Regulation, therapeutic diagnostic protocols, maintaining huge health deficits in public health units, extending all types of tyres and temporary health employment relationships and many more. In fact, the scaffolding that took place was accompanied by a commonly adopted carbon, we would say - arguments on rationalisation, household, waste and so on. Thus, the Government of New Democracy has found them ready or largely promoted by the SYRIZA Government, but even before that, by the PASOK governments. The main thing is that the prophesyings were strengthened, since practically and theoretically washed out, literally, four and a half years of the SYRIZA government. The similarity of the New Democracy's declarations on prevention with those of the SYRIZA relates to a copy of the European Union's guidelines, of course, to a state contribution to either information campaigns or to preventive examinations, for exercise, sport, nutrition, essentially by referring to the individual responsibility of the people's family, by incriminating it if it cannot respond. Because, well, messages for information, for example for preventive tests, but where and how they can be done remains unanswered. Also, for example, the integrated prevention programme that the government is practicing through campaigns and urges, but in no case is it accompanied by the state funding for the development of infrastructure and services in order to carry out all necessary preventive tests, medical monitoring, etc., while the so-called decent conditions for everyone are another wording of SYRIZA's minimum basic packages, which led to the PASOK unit for everyone, while the measures on extreme poverty - the well-known crusts, which are also financed by the bleeding of those who are not yet in extreme poverty - are being baptized as "particular care for vulnerable groups". With regard to cooperation with the private sector, without burdening the citizen, the New Democracy reproduces what SYRIZA claims, and of course, they are prerequisites for the third memorandum, which you voted together, namely that business action on health can be carried out on the basis of profit and that popular strata may not be affected. And now, however, there is cooperation with the private sector. The insured, however, pay, for example, 15% for diagnostic tests and treatments, to participate in hospitals and others. Does the New Democracy mean that it will abolish them so that the citizens will not be charged? Let's get back to us. In addition, the recent lockout of private diagnostic centers has shown that 75% to 95% of diagnostic tests are carried out in the private sector, as the public is insufficient, so the people put their hand in the pocket. An announcement to reinvest money, which will be saved by good management, is a copy of the respective position of SYRIZA and PASOK - Change Movement and concerns the policy of zero state funding of public health units, which will self-evident their operating needs from the sales of their business to customers, patients or insurance funds, an application that has already been made by the SYRIZA Government. Injured are the patients with the payments and the workers sanitary. In addition, good management of public pharmaceutical expenditure by limiting it, from EUR 5.1 billion to 1,94 billion, and whatever savings it has been, has it been invested in reducing patients' payments? On the other hand, it has led to large increases in the purchase of medicines and lowering state spending. Even on the question of recruitment, New Democracy reiterates the favourite criterion of the SYRIZA government, with the "where most needed", responding to the perception of the reduced requirements of the minimum, leading to the compromise that we cannot have it all, because this is overcrowding, pillaging, since compliance with the unpopular, fiscal goals dictates that the people should choose what to have, pediatrician, gynaecologist, anesthetic doctor or a doctor in the ITH. So, today, the patient and his family are obliged, on their own responsibility, to seek solutions and not - as the public health system should - to undertake fully and freely to deal with the simplest and most complex problems. That is why workers must reject this policy as a whole, strengthen their struggle for a state-of-the-art welfare system, universal, modern and absolutely free of charge, without any business activity, with full state funding, with massive recruitment of permanent, full and exclusive health staff, of all specialties. Because the realistic, in terms of people's needs, is the enormous potential of science, technology, productivity, work and a large number of health personnel, designed to serve the people's health. That is why the struggle, in addition to demanding relief and secondment measures, must be directed towards the prospect of deeper political, economic and social changes, for growth, which will be the criterion of satisfying modern and ever-enlarged social needs, which will be a universal, guaranteed people's right to labour and its state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u34	The seventh cycle is completed with Mr Georgios Vagiona, whom I call on the Step. Then, as I said, the State Secretary for Education, Sophia Zacharakis, will speak. We will start the eighth cycle - there was a gap in the seventh, justified, I was called by Mr. Scandalidis, who had a personal tide - with Mr. Scandalidis, Mrs. Notopoulou, Mr. Papadopoulos and I will call in Step after the Deputy Minister, Mr. Tsakir. Mr. Bagiona, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, before I come to the matter of the day, I would like to refer to the almost biblical catastrophe, which occurred on the first day of almost the country's rule in my prefecture, in the Halkidiki Prefecture. I would like to stress that the government has worked in dt time, with a step of six Ministers and State Secretarys and the Secretary-General of Civil Protection. But it's not just energy. We also need compensation for disasters, which were both in the agricultural and tourism sectors and in many houses which were affected. If someone listens to me from the Ministry of Agriculture, I would like to take note of the fact that not only the thanks they received for the early attendance of the ministers are enough, but we also need rapid compensation. He needs a radical reform of the ELGA. At the time when preferences are given, agricultural products must be repaid after eight or ten months or more. After preferences have been made by ELGA, part of the compensation needs to be given immediately to farmers at least 50%. But the ELGA must also change. Because he cannot say that when the damage is 1/3 of production he is not compensated at all. They forget about ELGA when they collect the money from farmers and when they are to compensate for their work, because 2/3 of production is costs. Seeds, fertilizers, medicines. And we are the only country in Europe, apart from Albania, where we have no seed nursery. We've got some hermaphrodite situations. So we should make it easier for them too. Based on the preferences, which are made, they must receive at least 50% as an advance and once the compensation has been completed, the compensation must be fully paid. I now come to this particular matter. The popular verdict was clear and is now starting a new era for the country. With hard work and truths we will succeed, because we owe it to the Greeks. We must leave the crisis behind and return the hope they have lost, hope for a better tomorrow. However, the future of this place is the children, for whom I have heard almost nothing from the colleagues who have spoken so far. That's why number one for me is demographic. It threatens the economy, social cohesion, and the very existence as a nation. In 2017, the deaths in our country were thirty-six thousand more than the births. I note that I have in the last three years until 2017 the official data from ELSTAT. In 2015, 2016 and 2017, deaths are more than ninety thousand. I mean, in a five-year period, we're going about a hundred-five. Young people avoid having a family, as they do not have the means to support it. Some leave abroad, even raising the "walk" of Brain Drain. They build their lives away from Greece. We must intervene, support the Greek family. This is not a mere case, which will have a direct apparent effect on it. The design, of course, is long-term, multi-level, multi-faceted and multi-factor. The tips that the previous government gave to me are not politics. The New Democracy has clear positions and takes steps to combat the demographic problem. We offer an allowance of EUR 2,000 for every child born, we increase the tax limit by EUR 1 000 for each child. We are reintroducing allowances for three-tier families, at pre-reduction levels in 2018. No child will be left out of the junior station. We extend the working hours of children's schools and full-time schools so that the programme of children is in line with the working parents. These are just a few of the measures that we will implement. The recovery of the economy, most and best jobs, is the key to the effective treatment of demographics. The daily life of the citizen must be rid of stress so that it can develop personally. It is the state's responsibility to ensure this, to guarantee as much of the best conditions as possible for the creation of families, which will give birth to many children. Colleagues, demographics puts us in a dangerous pervert. We are dealing with it, we are not ignoring it, and we need consensus on this matter. We're talking about our survival as a nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u36	Mr Sophia Zacharakis has the floor, which I call for in Step. That's a good start.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. It is a great pleasure to be in the national Parliament and in the face of very experienced, but also new Members. I wish everyone good power and I'm sure you'll have a great success. Ladies and gentlemen, the main project of recent elections and the verdict of citizens is the urgent demand for the country to win the lost ground and open a new cycle, a cycle of strong growth. It is more than an objective of the government that a national objective should be to leave the extinction behind and create the conditions so that every new Greek and every new Greek can have new opportunities and new expectations in our country. Our plan for education, you have observed it, that it was the spearhead of the election period, and that is why we can now stand here and before the legislature to call on us to call for the general legitimacy that we have now been given through the recent elections and the specific enhanced popular legitimacy for the implementation of our programme for education. You know well that our guiding principles, that is, active social justice and equal opportunities, have basically made the basis of our central programming declaration. All pupils, regardless of the possibility and regardless of any other treaty, have equal opportunities in the beginning of their lives and access to quality public education. The public school will act as a key pillar in the fight against exclusion and will give its students - whatever the starting point of their lives - the equipment to be able in their lives to defend, as free and independent citizens, the right to pursue their happiness and, at the same time, the spirit of social solidarity and responsibility in order to provide their strengths in the pursuit of the country's collective promotion. In this context, priorities in primary, secondary, field responsible for special education are formulated in four main axes: the creation of a modern school, a creative hive of knowledge and innovation. In providing quality and effective education, by continuing evaluation of the system, training of teachers and performance of degrees of freedom to them. To strengthen the social character of our educational system. Ensuring for our students and our teachers a safe school environment. I start from the first axis, and I want your attention, because there are many initiatives, which you will see unfold in the next period. We are preparing a new coherent curriculum from primary to high school. We adapt the curriculum so that it can also be covered within the school year. We introduce new educational themes, such as entrepreneurship, road behaviour, volunteering, prevention, reaction and prevention of natural disasters. We promote the development of creative and experiential actions, as well as the strengthening of the operation of student groups, who you know already operate in too many schools, outside a timeline and with the commitment of our teachers to robotics, the creation of virtual businesses, participation in competitions, which our children achieve a very good performance. We emphasise mild and digital skills and fully exploit digital technology to improve school everyday life. You know that the Ministry of Education has a remarkable digital educational material and we intend to make full use of it. We also emphasise safe tour, with a view to raising awareness among children, especially of the very small children, about the challenges and dangers of internet browsing. But a very important initiative is that we will establish the acquisition of a certificate of basic IT knowledge by the First High School for all our students. We introduce substantial professional orientation, by putting the class of school guidance in high school, with the participation of scientists, market people, people living from the time of their profession, experience and can take it to children through extra sessions, if you like. Of course, we are creating - I know that you will all be pleased with this initiative - a model and an experimental school in every regional section. We will therefore extend the institution of pilot and experimental schools throughout Greece, beginning, of course, from Athens and Thessaloniki, in areas where there is a greater need for more opportunities. In vocational education we want to step up and strengthen the number of children who choose education and we know that they have a very good chance of professional rehabilitation. We also establish there standards and professional high school with the establishment of an association council with local needs and local opportunities per region. The special treatment you know is caring and it's an initiative right now. As the Prime Minister said, we will place emphasis on completing the competition for the recruitment of teachers and special assistant staff in our schools. At the same time, however, we will adapt our educational system gradually towards the full development of integration education for disabled and special educational needs. At the same time, we will set up programmes of study that are appropriately weighted towards the type of disability and any specific training needs. We are setting up protected apprenticeship and training workshops, leaving the graduates of special vocational education and training workshops. Second axis of quality and effective education. Yes, we promote the training of teachers, but also reinforce the training of managers in the EMCDDA. We plan recruitment of permanent teachers, based on real needs, demographic developments and budgetary possibilities with an objective selection system. We promote the evaluation of the factors of our educational system, starting with the school unit, and link the evaluation of the education to its training and continuous improvement and reward. Yes, training will make our teacher even better in the work provided, this teacher who currently keeps the public school upright at all levels. We are entrusting the Quality Assurance Authority with primary and secondary education to define the criteria and assess the relevant results of the evaluation. We want an objective system of selection of training staff, on the basis of specific criteria, and we legislate on the selection of senior training staff by an IASC procedure. We are reintroducing the institution of school advisors, redefining their role and responsibilities. We give the teacher greater freedom, even choose a piece of the curriculum provided, which he gives his students. Of course, we show greater confidence in the manager by strengthening his role. At the same time we want to open schools in local society and strengthen the networks of schools, with emphasis on educational cooperation with neighbouring schools. We want school, high school to lead to its successful completion with the National Dismissal, which will be determined by the grades of the three classes, with a special rate per class. We set up tests at the end of the year with choice of issues from the bank of classified difficulties. On the third axis, in the social nature of our educational system, we are essentially strengthening the entire school with a programme of activities and studies and we are introducing - and this is very important - the possibility of obtaining a state certificate of foreign language in school so that our children - as many as they wish - can obtain a state certificate of language in school. I know our teachers, teachers of expertise, can support this project. We support and streamline the operation of specialized schools, strengthen the schools of the family and continue the education program of children of refugees in the Greek educational system. We are supporting and implementing with all our powers at the moment the implementation of two-year-old pre-school education. There are many problems in infrastructure. You know we're doing our best. In cooperation with the ILO, our Minister has already taken the necessary initiatives to overcome these issues. We need a safe school environment for our children. We need a building manager, a trainer in charge, so he can control and prevent the issues of school facilities. And at the same time, we put the trusted teacher, a teacher that children can go to talk about the issues that agitate them, especially the issues that you know, such as school bullying, other issues. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that in our long history it is not the first time that the place has had great difficulties. The regeneration of the nation began with the enlightened teachers and had spiritual fathers Adamadios Korais and the King. In the difficult post-war years our parents or parents gave education the necessary emphasis and gave themselves the opportunity to advance with their value and claim a better future in a better and new Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u38	Madam Minister, please close. Because of the first, I've left time. To know about the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u39	I'm closing and thank you. I know. Today, education is the key to the future of collective progress, social integration, equal opportunities and fair growth. We, as far as the head of the Ministry is concerned, are determined to implement the government's commitment to greater investment, investment in education. In this direction we will pursue as much consensus as possible with all the parties in this House, but also with all the stakeholders, with absolute priority in what our citizens need and our education needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u40	As I had said before, we will begin with Mr Kostas Scandalidis, MP of Athens with the Change Movement, following Mrs.Catherine Notopoulou, MP of Thessaloniki from SYRIZA and Mr.Michalis Papadopoulos, MP of Kosanis of the New Democracy and will be followed by the Deputy Minister of Thessaloniki, Mr. Tsakiris. Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u41	Let's start with two wishes. The first concerns Parliament, the relationship between parties and parliamentarians, the morality and the quality of political dialogue. To be a parliament at the height of the circumstances. A parliament that will re-engineer the political into a life-threatening force of democracy. The second concerns the Prime Minister and his Government. By my very nature I am a well-meaning man, a bearer of philosophers to wish that the country would achieve its national objectives. I stand with hope in the face of any political change, which may open up a new, better capital in public life. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the Prime Minister reading his Programming Declarations, describing the type and way of his administration, choosing with care what is sounding pleasurably and progressively, obscuring or going beyond the conditions for their implementation that may require unpleasant choices and attempting to write the first few days of his Government to show it as something new, innovative, subversive. I have strong objections. The first days have a double reading. His reads them as proof of consistency of words and works, as confirmation from the first day of his commitments. Mine reads them as an irresponsible and disharmony "before a dilemma you are voiced", according to the evangelical verb. The acceptance of the amount of surpluses for the two years refers to the call for the promise of immediate renegotiation and their coexistence with tax reductions, from now on, and also requires additional measures of a fiscal nature, which are under the carpet. The open controversy with the Ambassadors' Agreement and the fighting commitment to appeal to unacceptable concessions to change from the first day has been landed in the territory of consistent compliance with its conditions. The sworn faith in merit and the undivided state could not circumvent the total invasion of general secretaries from the party tank of New Democracy, in a worse way by SYRIZA. SYRIZA at least kept some pretexts, even photographically. The retrospective invention of the secretaries-general tried to have fun with the following practice, but adding unnecessary weight to the ‘final and flexible state’. By the way, I should like to say - and because, unfortunately, I have a strong memory and experience - that in almost the same words Kostas Karamanlis described the re-establishment of the state in 2004 to dismantle it with its destructive choices. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I could refer to a series of other options, such as the Ministry's Eye and Secretary-General, the ILO and the abolition of independent financial controls, and many others, first indications that practice is not required by the reformist and progressive need, but by the traditional, hard party and conservative concept. What else can it mean, the decisive claim that goes to the heterogeneity of the objectives or the inconsistency of the 'good morning' of declarations and actions? Even this really necessary and crucial issue, which concerns the digital convening programme and which I consider to be very positive, I see it being subject to all-powerful conservative practices. That's all for the first few days. But there is something more critical and essential, there is the time and horizon of the country. What I would expect from a Prime Minister, who aspires to lead Greece and the Greeks to a new era, is to identify, above and beyond all, the coordinates of the country and to redefine the national objectives. I expected him to tell us how, in the absence of a national strategy of the government coming, he would build up the new national objectives he believes. To tell us how he will deal with top-level issues, which are under way, how the Cyprus issue will be dismantled by the stagnation, when he has not found a word to say about it in the speech of the Programming Declarations and how he will face the expansionist reform of Turkey and the growing threat. I waited for him to tell us how he would handle energy reserves in the Eastern Mediterranean, which have acquired great and growing geopolitical importance, how he would make use of the new strategic arrangements, which are under way, to upgrade the country's position and strength and how to deal with the climate crisis, not with semi-metres and individual options, but with extensive restructuring of the production and consumption model. Finally, I expected to hear how it would overturn the degressive demographic path of Hellenism with the low fertility and widespread migration of the new human resources. To return to the economic philosophy that guides the thought and programme of the new Prime Minister, all of this is not done on the market and simply by facilitating the necessary investments, it is not done with the regions of the country on the automatic pilot and the announcement of some important projects and interventions. It is done with a comprehensive plan of national reconstruction, with a development centre, with decentralisation of governance and regions with a name. They shall be made by means of a productive investment plan and a reorientation of the resources available. They are carried out through a comprehensive mobilisation of the country's production potential, which encourages it to be fair and proportionately allocated taxes rather than horizontal cuts. It is happening with a development shock, now and not after 2021, the reduction of surpluses now, the change in the role of the surplus now, the national negotiation for all the big ones! Otherwise, how will the well-considered release of the productive forces, in which it swears? SYRIZA has given the new government a country in crisis, with unacceptable commitments, with low competitiveness and a low degree of ease in business, according to the relevant agencies, with the only negative performance in the European Union of gross investment falling, with capital equipment constantly decreasing qualitatively and quantitatively. I could list the low growth, high unemployment, the disinvestment of production potential, new social inequalities, insecurity, the deterioration of public health goods, education and security, and the functioning of the banking system. The Prime Minister's answer, beyond some positive elements and suggestions, which I recognise, does not in any way correspond to the need for a real overthrow. And, unfortunately, the first days of the government confirm the lack of a social plan that can inspire the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close with a reference to a cliché, what I hear and hit my ears badly: 'Return to normality'. Return means back to something that can be repeated today. But what does the present Greek reality, but also the whole world and the developments, have to do with any other time we have lived? In what decade has the normality been in Greece, and what does it mean to be normal? What does it mean to be normal? It is a general, undetermined term that describes neither vision nor strategies nor goals, does not describe the overthrow required by circumstances and will bring Greece forward. We will be present and fighters, fiercely opposed to what is poor in our country and our people, by confronting with everything that is positively attempted and always, with our flag: "First Greece, the Republic, first the Greeks, first the Greeks' right to dignity."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u42	I invite my colleague to Stepma by SYRIZA, Mr Catherine Notopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, after wishing for good strength to all of us and all of us, let me begin with the following observation: Your programme speech, as expressed yesterday by the Prime Minister, is from contradictions and contradictions, because although you are saying that you are here to unite, you are actually preparing to abolish the simple proportionality by priority. The obsession with a centralised electoral system conceals fear of democracy, unity, consent and cooperation that the Greek society so needs. All your executives were placed in favor of youth and how to support youth and at the same time abolish the General Secretariat of New Generation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have followed with sincere anxiety, with genuine agony, the speech of the Prime Minister, seeking his development plan for Thessaloniki and Northern Greece, in order to be critical. We realized there's no plan. The Prime Minister's only reference was to the renewal of the PMI, a project that has already begun, has been launched. Let us inform you that there is a pre-authorization of the Special Spatial Plan and the consultation has been completed where the whole local society has been placed. On the one hand, I am very pleased that the important deposit of the government of SYRIZA for the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki is becoming a flag of the new Prime Minister, on the other hand, I am sorry, considering that the programme of the new government for Thessaloniki and Northern Greece is so poor, it is non-existent. Perhaps you should rethink the maintenance of the Prime Minister's office in Thessaloniki. So, let me remind you of what serious flagship interventions mean for Thessaloniki and Northern Greece: The performance of the camps of Paul Mela and Kodra, the museum of Holocaust, the first pier, Alexandriaos Innovation and the technological park, the metro. So I also address the new Minister for Infrastructure, to remind you that the much-discussed station concerns Venizelos ancient Venizelos, and to call warmly for you to follow the existing design, as it is the only one that ensures the implementation of the metro, without additional costs in time and money. So, ladies and gentlemen, our Thessaloniki, which you had condemned in decline for decades, has been upgraded, has become an energy hub, digital, transport, transport, economics. Macedonia and Thrace currently have social structures and infrastructure. Therefore, do not try to trick the people up there with empty speeches, without clear timetables in the works, because we have experienced the original phenomenon in recent years, projects to be completed, delivered to the citizens and to make their lives better. So we handed over a YMAT, a State Secretary for the Interior - Macedonia - Thrace area upgraded, currently leading the efforts of dialectic co-development. We have built relationships of friendship and cooperation, along with our neighbouring country through the Ambassadors' Agreement. Its benefits, you all see them, but not everyone says them, you don't all confess them. So at a time when our neighbours download the Sun of Vergina from their public spaces and monuments, the new Deputy Minister of Home Affairs of Macedonia - Thrace serves in a Macedonian speech, nationalist krone and deliriums on television and lacks an entirely development vision for Northern Greece. In conclusion, of course, I shall refer to your planning positions on tourism. I have obviously listened with unrelenting interest, and yesterday I heard the speech of the relevant Minister. One could say it's an eloquent description that would fit in a tourist guide. In no case is it, however, a structured plan for sustainable tourism development. I would draw attention to you, ladies and gentlemen, because tourism is the strength of our national economy and we delivered it to his peak. From twenty-four million arrivals in 2014, today we record thirty-three million arrivals annually, 18.5 billion receipts, 37.5 billion annual revenues. We are talking about a contribution to GDP of over 20%, twice the world average. Once again in tourism you have announced what we have already done. We supported small and medium-sized enterprises, precisely because it is the soul of Greek tourism. We have worked out - and it is still being implemented - the special regional planning for tourism. Our main concern was quality services. Investments are higher than any other sector in the economy, resulting in increased jobs and, of course, protection of labour rights. That's it until yesterday. So you referred to your announcement of what we have done, you referred to tourism education, which has already started and been upgraded for two years. Let me remind you that we have received a stopped tourist training. The Tours School was closed, which opened after seven years in Athens and opened in September in Thessaloniki. We managed to extend the tourist season, we managed to promote new tourist organisations, and we have for the first time, an organised institutional framework, which is organised, establishes the theme tourism. That is why the Prime Minister has also referred to it. The opening up of foreign markets, the attraction of investment, all of these are objectives set by our own government and had not achieved any other government in the past. International recognition of these is also the election of our country in the Presidium of the Regional Committee for Europe, the World Tourism Organisation and as an executive party to the World Tourism Organisation. We are therefore giving you these positions and you must respond, because tourism is a national case. About the marinas that were reported in detail: we unlocked works that were stopped and stuck for decades. For example, I will mention approvals and developments, which have been made in connection with the marinas of Messologist, Malia, Alimos, Mytilini, Chios, Pylos, Kalithea, Vouliagmeni, Santorini, Elounda. So this, ladies and gentlemen, will be kept very high and we will compare the government's work with the success and objectives achieved in 2018. But I want to be clear. If you talk about stuck investments, you refer to investments like gold mining in Halkidiki, then know that you are already in the wrong direction. And this is a mistake that we're not going to let happen. Before the end of our term of office, we signed the relevant spatial plan, which provides for a balance between the tourism product and the mining activity. I believe, I hope and hope that you do not look at it at the expense of quality of life, health and tourism. We are here to defend the achievements of the Greek people, the present and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u44	I invite Mr. Michalis Papadopoulos to the Step. As I said before, to hear from the colleague who succeeds me in the Chair, then the Deputy Minister, Mr. Tsakiris, then Mr. Spyrides Lappas and Mr Savvas Anastasiades, and then Mr. Christos Gogas and Mr. Manosos Voloudakis, after being intervened, after Mr. Tsakiris, Mr. Dendias. You have the floor, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, the admonitions and advice of the previous speaker were impressive. Of course, he didn't tell us anything about OSTH, he didn't tell us anything about the port. I guess you've confused the elections. You have made municipal elections, regional elections, European elections. The truth is that you have troubled Thessaloniki very much. That's the truth. I won't get carried away any more. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the luck and honour of being the fourth time I speak in Programmatic Declarations by the Government of New Democracy, and indeed, I feel a different confidence in what is going to happen. The same I think the Greek people felt on Saturday nights because they were interested in hearing the Prime Minister's Programmatic Declarations. He actually verified, but he also felt he was gaining the state's lost credibility again. Because Kyriakos Mitsotakis does not know how to give unbearable promises, but he knows how to do works and actions. And he proved it on Saturday night. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to economic and social issues, the government is facing the daily lives of its citizens, these small, direct regulations that will make citizens' lives easier and stop their suffering. As time is limited, I shall refer to specific issues and as soon as possible. I therefore wanted to refer to the transport sector, which I served in 2013-2015, where a project was carried out which, unfortunately, was either abandoned by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government or broken down. Unfortunately, not only did it not improve, but they did everything they could to make professionals, the citizens of this country. I referred to the beginning of OSH. OSTH is the only organization in Thessaloniki that serves the travel of citizens and especially the weakest classes, students, etc. I, Mr. Notopoulou, as State Secretary for Transport, moved by subway. I don't know if you guys ever got into an OSTH bus. Because if you'd been in, you'd, I guess, have a different picture. You have dissolved the organization, you have created a public body, which has never worked, you have created accumulated debts. Already Mr. Pappas, the president of the agency, calls for an advance on October 4 million euros to meet his current obligations. That's why I could talk for hours. One element I will only tell you: In 2015 buses were about five hundred thirty and today is two hundred thirty seven, Minister. Two days before the European elections there is a competition between the OSH and OSH in Athens for seven hundred fifty buses, a budget of more than EUR 500 million, without technical specifications - the relevant services were not even asked, nor even the type of bus. It happened randomly without any transport study. This case is in court and will be clear. Be sure. Secondly, the examination of candidate drivers. More than a hundred thousand people are suffering. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport was also mentioned. It's a suffering that lasts more than a year. And it's not just that someone wants to just get a license. There are many who need it for their work, there are many for whom it is a means of survival and living. The establishment of examinations by citizens of seventy-four years or more to review the driving licence in no other European Union country exists. Nowhere! I could list many of these issues and incidents which have taken place lately, for example waterplanes. We started up with the then Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr. Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, a joint ministerial decision on the seaplanes. It's a troubled story, a story that goes back to the country all the time. For the last four years, a law was created that enclosed the waterplanes in their sheds. Nothing's happened at all. Tolls: I have one last example: tolls on the Egnatia Street. They're tolls without any design. They were nominated without any consultation with local communities. And I thank the Minister for the temporary interruption of toll work in Siatista, which has actually been done in a way that is incomprehensible. Kozanis is caught between two tolls, Polymyl and Siatistas, without any study at all. I'd like to say two things about PPC. As far as PPC is concerned, the presence of Kozani in Kosani is decisive and the effort that is being made, although it gives a fictitious GDP to Kosanis, which does not allow it to enter various European programmes. PPC came into a tragic financial situation, because the SYRIZA and ANEL government, in every choice, closed its eyes to economic interests and poorly paid customers. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] PPC was used at each stage as a civil needs service vehicle. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute and I'll be done, Mr. President. Thank you. With the argument that the "little PPC" was not sold, of course - half of PPC, depreciating the other possibilities offered by PPC. 83% decreased PPC's shares on the Stock Exchange. Unit 5, the most important energy project in Europe, would have to end at the end of 2019 and is even afflicted. For eight months, the companies that have been working are unpaid, but also the people who have been there. And PPC keeps blocking this process. I hope that a solution will soon be found. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, let me say a great deal of thanks to my fellow citizens for their confidence once again. Of course, my fellow citizens, Mr President, Mr Ministers, expect much from this government. There are considerable loose ends. The Region of Western Macedonia has been the last in absorption in the last four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u46	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u47	I'll be done in a minute. Madam Secretary of State for Education, the university expects funding with its new schools. The fur in Siatista and Galatian has important issues, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the visa and customs. The marbles and quarries of the county are really in persecution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Papadopoulos, you've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u49	Wine tourism, energy tourism and, above all, Kosani's yolk are issues which need to be resolved. Because, therefore, I trust the Prime Minister and this government, which is why I am voting 'yes', because the citizens of the Kosani prefecture also gave us this vote of confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u50	The Foreign Minister, Mr Tsakiris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, for the honour he has made me choose as the Secretary of State for Development and Investment in today's government, with basic responsibilities for the Programme for Public Investment and the ESDP. It is also a great honour today to address the Plenary Assembly of the Greeks. I may disappoint you that my word may not be verbally correct and has no political time, but I promise you that it will be sincere and with supply and work. In a country where the crisis has hit the Gross Domestic Product, as well as the human potential it produces, the objective of convergence with the developed regions of the European Union may be more timely than ever. Our policy focuses on broadening the country's development potential, speeding up the pace of economic growth, increasing productivity to achieve real convergence and, of course, improving the quality of life of citizens. At the same time, however, we are aiming to alleviate the socio-economic disparities that still exist. We are aiming at an economy that is competitive in a society of cohesion and prosperity. We also aim to speed up the investment that serves national policies in each sector, industry, energy, the environment, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the rapid and correct performance of projects and actions in society, from large-scale infrastructure and networks to financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, from the financial tools for information technology up to the strengthening of good governance and the upgrading of public sector services. All this touches our everyday lives. We will do all of this with good management, with credibility in Europe, but also with accountability and responsibility for the Greek citizens. In this way we contribute to convergence, rebuild the national economy, strengthen social justice, limiting existing inequalities, and ultimately give the Greeks the prosperity they expect and really deserve. The ten-year crisis in Greece has had a negative impact on two key and critical parameters. It has dramatically reduced the investment of enterprises in fixed equipment, as well as the investment of firms in research and development. These two led to the creation of a very large deficit of competitiveness of Greek businesses. At the same time, foreign direct investment has moved to a low average of 6%, coupled with the low public investment programme and also the low absorption of the NRP, it has further contributed to the expansion of this competitiveness deficit on the market. At the same time, however, we must understand that the environment and market structure are changing rapidly, with new trends and branches emerging and, as many previous speakers have said, the fourth industrial revolution, with basic features on the Internet of things, big data, FinTech, the blockchain chain that is a common public accounting book, where now too many functions are based on it. Nor should we forget climate change, in which market and entrepreneurship, at least abroad, have already started to adapt. The Ministry of Development and Investment will design and implement actions and programmes with measurable objectives, which will take into account the above and also other important features such as the cyclical economy, sustainability, etc., so that growth is long-term, with strong foundations and is not affected by at least short-term crises. More specifically, the actions we will focus will be the rationalisation of the Public Investment Programme, its long-term programming and its maximum leverage with private funds primarily from foreign investments. Priority will be given to projects of added economic and social value, in order to make effective use of the last available Community resource, to promote the necessary interventions for effective coordination of both the national and the co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme. In this context, it will immediately be modernised. The existing legal framework dates back to 1952. At the same time, it is essential to optimise the existing NRP for its maximum absorption and, as I said before, with sustainable projects that have a direct impact on growth, but also in the long term, increase employment. The main objective is to mitigate the investment losses during the crisis and to transfer the Greek economy to a model of entrepreneurship, in which the export of invasion and extroversion will be a priority. This will also be done with the rationalisation of existing ESDP financial programmes. There is at the moment too much low absorption. We are looking forward to very few with extended selection criteria. Priority will be given to financial instruments, as these are recyclable, and when they are finished, the returning funds turn as national funds into the Public Investment Programme. Co-financed loan products with favourable interest rates and low collateral, venture capital and loan guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises will be the head of our interventions. In other words, we will increase significantly what we call 'false' business financing. The final introduction of the microfinance operating framework will also be important, which is done on all European markets. At the same time, we are laying the foundations for the timely and efficient use of the resources for the next 2021-2027 programme of the new ESDP, through a substantial and representative consultation with the social partners and regions, so that the implementation of the programmes begins on the first day of their start. We will strengthen liquidity in the real economy by making use of the European financial instruments of 'COSME', 'InnovFin', 'InvestEU', which, together with the proper implementation of the Public Investment Programme and the ESRB, will give the necessary access to capital of Greek enterprises. A sound and continuous coordination with the other ministries, regions and municipalities for a proper series of priority projects, ensuring the completion of the project, and certainly ensuring the absorption of all European resources. Create technical assistance tanks from the NSRF and other sources that will be used to speed up investment and infrastructure and enhance the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. There is no doubt that recovery has begun and that is the lawfulness of the market, but until now this is an unfunded recovery in economists' terminology, and it must be done as soon as possible in the right direction and on solid foundations. The issue of the new seven-year bond last week and the interest rate that was formed shows that the markets believe in the future of Greece and the governance I have the honour of being a member. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Lappas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. We welcome the new Members, men and women. Heartfelt wishes for a good term of office, in a constructive and effective way for the country and society. Mr President, I was honoured by the President of my party to appoint me as the Head of Justice. I'm elected in the district of Karditsa. Minister of Justice is Costas Tsiaras elected in Carditsa Prefecture. Undersecretary of Justice is Dimitris Kranis, a leading executive of the lawmakers, whom I met thirty years ago as President of Primary Carditsa. I fear that the case of justice has become a case of Carditsa, which reminds me, Mr. Dendia, that famous Miltiadis Evert "Carditsa, Carditsa, Carditsa". I say this as an introduction and it is mild, because I am very hard after what I read and saw about the area of justice. None of the ministers are here now. In the Programmatic Declarations the area of justice was really unknown. There's no mention at all. It was a terra incognita. No reference to the field of justice. The only thing that exists is an interview by Mr. Tsiaras the other day at the 'News', which really surprised me, for two reasons: firstly, why Kostas Tsiaras I know him, I know him for many years, he is my friend and secondly, we worked together in the committee 'from now on' four years ago. It is a man with mild words, constructive proposals and, above all, what we say 'the meditation of the political man'. Reading this interview, as a Minister of Justice, has surprised me negatively, and I will tell you immediately why. In another spirit, and with another mood, I went up to the Step. Listen to what Mr Tsiaras said in his interview and I believe he can hear me from his office and forgive me for the tone: 'As a government, we are determined to exhaust every procedural way to make up for the damage that has been done and to immediately amend the problem articles of the Criminal Code that cultivate the sense of lawlessness'. I ask: What are these articles? How have they been identified within seven days by a competent minister who has not been able to sit in the chair, such phenomena of lawlessness that have their source in specific articles that trigger it? Secondly, it reiterates that it will start from zero the process of selecting the new leadership of justice. The well-known subject! Anyway, we will see this in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency in which the speaker is also involved. He talked about setting up special courts in order to speed up investment cases. I guess he meant special sections with special procedures and not special courts, if I understand well and if Mr Kranis is now listening to me as State Secretary. Because special courts are ad hoc courts established for a specific purpose and usually in exceptional political circumstances. So he's probably talking about special proceedings and not special courts. At another point it says: "The entire process of selecting the leadership for which top constitutionalists - notice please - of the country spoke about provocative contempt for the Constitution". No one in this country, not a constitutionalist, but no lawyer! I challenge the leadership of the Ministry of Justice to bring us even a phrase, saying that the way in which the leadership of justice was chosen, namely the interna corporis of the House, as defined in the Constitution, which had to be finally ratified by a presidential decree and never adopted, was a provocative contempt. It's a heavy expression. I would also address a recommendation to my much younger Minister: the area of justice is an area which is being dismantled by a mild reason, which is curbing differences and conflicts and, above all, confrontation must be made with arguments and only arguments, otherwise it is ineffective, barbaric and out of the question. And the Minister concludes in the article on the provisions of the Criminal Code: "They would "drive, if they were to apply" - which already apply - "in massive releases and intangible limitations caused by the public on the legal sense of citizens". I'm incompetent! Unholy from the word of a Minister of Justice and a friend - I stress it. I expect to hear how many, what and where mass dismissals are concerned with prisons and blurred limitations. I do not know of any dismissals and any limitations decided by a competent court or court based on the new Penal Codes. Let me listen once and see if the limitations are massive and blurred. In any case, Mr President, the time has passed. SYRIZA - says - has shown provocative tolerance to criminals, even to unrepentant terrorists. Did the government of SYRIZA show tolerance? What can I say? I'm really incompetent, Mr. President. I was expecting another reason. I will only tell him that in the field of justice a result must be born of controversy constructively. Because that is legal science, an endless dialogue, a constructive confrontation. "One of the different cultures in harmony," Heraklitos said, or if you want the basis, the core of legal science - and the Ministry of Justice must embrace it - is the core of what it is, throughout western legal thought. It is what Aristotle said in "Nicomachia Ethics": "Always gar may have another". For all things there is second thought, second decision, second crisis, second placement. Is this monopolies, this strict reason, the cruel, the disgusting and oppositionary to be delivered by the relevant Minister of Justice? She's already got her answer from the lawyers. I would say that he also received the answer from a huge personality with which we may all have differences at political level, but at legal level no one. I'm talking about Vangelis Venizelos. In an article earlier in the editors' newspaper - why you are thinking of suspending, gentlemen of the Ministry of Justice - the headline said: "The suspension of application of the new Criminal Code will cause a very serious problem". And when we talk about a serious problem that will be caused in the field of justice, prisons and justice courts, they must think about it very seriously, measure it and weigh it calmly. The balance of justice must not be too high on one side or on the other. The balance must be at a balance. And for you to have a balance, the reason must be balanced primarily - not us who are opposition, and we have an obligation to criticise, and we oppose the actions of each ministry - the relevant minister. This must trigger a climate of mild political reason. Because it is not an area such as protecting the citizen or the economy, where we might call opposition corons there. The area of justice imposes coolness, wisdom and mild political reason and, above all, arguments. So I look forward to the questions I have raised. And I shall close, Mr President, with one last. Is it not enough to place Vangelis Venizelos on your thoughts to suspend the Penal Codes? And here I'm going to open a parentheses. Can the lawyers hear me? The suspension of the Criminal Codes does not produce any legal effect, because they must know - those who are law-makers know it - that once a code, a law more diligent, applies to all that has been completed by that day. What's the use of parole? Vaggelis Venizelos tells you and the President of Parliament of the country's Bar Association tells you. He expressly points out. That's the one thing. Secondly, we are waiting for a response from the relevant ministers of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Lappa, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u55	I shall close with a phrase, Mr President. The subjection of penitentiary and anti-criminal policy on the next day of the elections, 8-7-2019 with the presidential decree 81 in a way of socio-political pharmacism before any consultation, without any consultation, no contact with any sector and body which concerns them - judicial officers, judges, lawyers, law enforcement officers under the Ministry of Civil Protection...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Lappa, you've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u57	We will find this before us not only in general terms but also in European institutions. Countries have been released from the Council of Europe because they have brought penitentiary and anti-crime policy on public order and security. Watch out for that. It's very serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Lappa, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u59	I shall conclude, Mr President, in seconds. Justice is first and foremost criminal or civil, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Lappas used nine minutes. Mr Anastasiades has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. From now on the government's word will be simple and true. It will avoid the many surnames by insisting on the essentials. And from the future, it will choose the strength of action and outcome. In this phrase, the central message of the programming positions of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as they were set out in his speech earlier, and contain policies, objectives, concrete measures and a natural timetable. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people in the elections of 7 July gave the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis a vote of confidence, a vote of hope and perspective. He accepted the truth agreement that we proposed and instructed us to work hard and efficiently to return to our country hope, optimism, progress, prosperity and growth. To regenerate the middle class, which in recent years, the years of the crisis have been pushed as much as ever. It has given us the mandate to bring new investments to the country, to improve the everyday life of all citizens. Make citizens feel safe at home and home. We have education that doesn't produce unemployed. To have upgraded health services with easy access for all citizens. Let's hit red tape and pluralism. The verdict of the Greek people is clear. We are called upon to close the crisis cycle. To take the country into a new era with fewer taxes for citizens, with more investment, with many and good new jobs, with an effective state offering security, education, welfare and a social state for all. On political grounds, based on truth and realism. With a proud national voice. The Prime Minister's previous speech strengthened these positions. It strengthened the optimism that caused the outcome of the elections of 7 July, but also the direct composition of the government, the direct management of the state and the first successful response to the emergency needs presented in the country. It has demonstrated that the Prime Minister's Programmatic Declarations are indeed the epitome of an integrated and effective governance plan. What needs to be done clearly described the day of his speech. The immediate reduction of HPAI by 22% this year, a year before our initial commitment, will act as a credibility test for the government in their commitments. The reduction of the corporate tax from 28% to 24%, then 20%, the reduction of dividends tax from 10% to 5%, the suspension of VAT on construction and the suspension of capital duty on markets and sales, the reduction of insurance contributions will act as a lever for growth and will boost the economy, new investments and new jobs for the benefit of all Greeks. The recruitment of five hundred police officers and the supply of vehicles and other equipment and armaments will enhance the possibility of better dealing with crime and illegality and give citizens a sense of security. The reduction in taxation from 22% to 9% for annual incomes of up to EUR 10,000 will relieve weak social groups in particular. Of course, the introduction of the Greeks' vote abroad brings our country's compatriots from abroad closer and more active. The recruitment of two thousand nurses and medical staff will improve the provision of health services to the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Mitsotakis acknowledging the complex, many different needs of modern society and aiming to create a flexible and effective, real servant of the people, has been implementing an integrated plan for the country since the first day and to address the problems. "We will not be measured with our opponents, but with the real problems and needs of society." In this phrase, the Prime Minister condensed his intentions, his determination and the main issue for the country and the citizens. We stand helpless in this great effort that has begun and will assist with all our forces in the success of this effort, because the country's progress is a national case, because we believe that we can achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u62	The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Dendias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by wishing everyone, especially young Members, a good parliamentary term. Ladies and gentlemen, a major opposition acquis is recorded in foreign policy. Historical decisions were taken after 1974 on the country's western and European orientation. These decisions have been valid for half a century. They were strengthened and vindicated regardless of the alteration in the power of parties with completely different ideological achievements. The tightening of national unity and harmony on these key realistic parameters of our foreign policy and the militarisation of Greek society in this context is the essential factor of national survival. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, does not have the existential luxury of other European countries. It is the only state in the European Union that faces a national security problem because of the aggression of its neighbour. We must not forget that one year after 2021 that we will proudly celebrate the two hundred years of new Greece is in 2022, the hundred-year anniversary of the Asia Minor Devastation, the greatest destruction of Hellenism. The eternal monument that shows the absolute certainty of discord and failure to agree on a basis of realism. The Mitsotakis Government seeks to secure the acquis of national consensus on the main lines of our foreign policy. It does not claim the monopoly of patriotism. He will consult and inform the opposition. He will respect and listen to criticism. It will, however, ignore with a sense of national responsibility any screaming of patriocapacail and nationalist excitement. Ladies and gentlemen, exiting the crisis is an opportunity for reassessment. Many of the admitted truths have now ceased to be true. The Greek policy is therefore called upon to reassign itself in the light of the new challenges. In the state of the new conditions we must abandon our mental reluctance. We must see with realism the end of the '80s dogmas. We must put aside the foreign policy of the act. We must also go beyond the foreign policy of plating multi-dimensional energy. We must abandon the resumption in the interpretative stereotypes of cultural identity and of a centre - a region. We must incorporate into our policy the slump in the space and time created by globalisation, incorporate the change in the economic model of the post-industrial modern state, which values are mainly created by services and intangible goods. We need to design and play an active and active role in principle within the European Union, an important, insightful, self-confidenceful role that breaks down the limits of the embezzlement of the five-year borrower. The European Union is the most ambitious historic project of peaceful coexistence and coexistence of peoples and states in the history of humanity. In its context it has certainly anchored Greece, ignoring the harsh reaction of Anti-Population, the political acuity and acidity of the founder of the New Democracy, Konstantinos Karamanlis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In the Union, therefore, we are further developing close relations with our European partners. I have already met many of my fellow Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the European States, including the French, Italian, Spanish, my Dutch colleague. Management of the impact of the United Kingdom's possible withdrawal from the European Union - with or without agreement - is a very important issue for us. The relevant national preparations will continue and be completed. With regard to the Cyprus issue, which we are discussing forty-five years after the Turkish invasion, I should like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that firstly you have vindicated the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. The Government's Planning Declarations shall be appreciated in their entirety. It is completely impossible to judge them only on its own. I am of course aware of the need for opposition. It is within the framework of the parliamentary dialogue. But he's not unfair. In any case, you know well that Cyprus is a top national concern, a strategic aim for Greece's foreign policy. The only way to achieve a mutually acceptable and beneficial solution for the Republic of Cyprus is to reopen negotiations and find a solution on the basis of United Nations Security Council decisions and the full implementation of the acquis communautaire. Unequivocal preconditions for the opening of negotiations are the end of illegal drilling and investigations, as well as the removal of Turkish ships from the Cypriot gyalulitis zone and the exclusive economic zone. In the face of illegality, we will continue to confidently propose international legality. I have already met with my Cypriot colleague. We have been in close cooperation with the Cypriot Government since the first moment on the best possible coordination and the Prime Minister of Cyprus on the 29th, accompanied by me, will make his first visit abroad to the Republic of Cyprus. As far as Greek-Turkish relations are concerned, our main objective is to promote a policy based on the stable principles of good neighbourliness, respect for international law and international treaties. In this context, it is recommended that Greece and Turkey can and should cooperate in those areas where this is feasible and mutually beneficial. We are trying to highlight the prospects, but without ignoring and tolerateing the obstacles. I would, however, like to make it clear from this step clearly, that we are aware of international law which does not tolerate provocative action, threats of war or unilateral claims. This will become absolutely clear both in the neighbouring country and in all international fora. In so far as the European perspective of Turkey becomes less visible, it becomes compulsory for us to formulate a policy that takes account of this new reality. As far as the Balkans are concerned, we need to reposition ourselves as the stable European country in the Balkans and not as the Balkan country in Europe, as the late Constantine Mitsotakis said, with knowledge and a view to the liquid situation in the Western Balkans. Our aim is to strengthen Greece's political and economic footprint, with interconnectivity plans within the wider region, to further increase our exports to these countries and also through them. The Balkans, ladies and gentlemen, are not our destination. But it's our neighborhood. We will be present in the developments and claim our role. We support the accession perspective of the Western Balkan countries. At the same time, we stress that the road to the European Union is inextricably linked to strict heresy, based on the performance of the candidate countries themselves. As far as the Prespecies Agreement is concerned, our position is well known. We also expressed it as a Qualified Opposition. The agreement had to be concluded in a more advantageous manner for our national interests. Our aim is to do everything possible to reduce its negative effects. We will seek to deepen relations with our northern neighbour in the context of mutually beneficial cooperation. But we will not tolerate non-conformity. Speaking of compliance with international commitments, I need to refer to Albania. It is known that of the two important agreements signed with our country in 2009 only one - the construction of military cemeteries and the burial of our fallen in 1940 - began to apply very recently. We expect it to be fully implemented. Albania still has not fulfilled its obligations in relation to the minority and property rights of the Greek national minority. That is why in the context of the start of accession negotiations with Albania, for which the European Union has set a clear heresy, we will continue to closely monitor Albania's completion of the five key priorities. We will continue to monitor closely the human rights of all citizens, including the rights of the indigenous Greek national minority. Eastern Mediterranean: Significant developments in the Eastern Mediterranean enhance the strategic importance of Greece in the wider region, turn our country into the cradle of the western chain to the East. The two triangles of Greece - Cyprus - Israel and Greece - Cyprus - Egypt, as well as bilateral cooperation with other countries in the region, strengthen the cooperation of the West with these countries and are factors of stability for the wider region. Greek-American relations are at an excellent point today. I've already visited the United States and had very constructive conversations with Foreign Minister Mike Pombeau and Security Counselor John Bolton. I have just received to the Ministry the American State Secretary, Mr Riker, in continuing discussions with Mr Pompeo. Developments in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans, the American interest in the region and our country's active foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, create conditions for closer cooperation with the American side. We are preparing the second phase of strategic dialogue, which will take place in the autumn of 2019 in Greece and we are discussing all issues relating to our defence cooperation. With Russia it is well known that our country has been associated for centuries with historical ties, religious and cultural. Honest friendship traditionally unites the peoples of the two countries. We are seeking to strengthen our cooperation. With the People's Republic of China we will seek to further develop our already close bilateral relations. The example of investment in the port of Piraeus is a headline for a wider prospect of investment in our country in the infrastructure sector. In the wider region of the Middle East and North Africa, Greece has a timeless and consistently evolving presence, as in the Arab Gulf. We will strengthen it further. Our relations with Israel which contribute decisively to the stability of the region have, as you all know, gained a strategic character. We will deepen and broaden these relationships. Our traditional relationship with the Arab world over the last decade has evolved. In particular, with countries such as Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, Jordan and Lebanon we have reached a high level of maturity in the fields of political, economic and cultural cooperation. But we believe that Greece's voice must be heard beyond these countries. The center of gravity of the planet, you all know, has moved east. The wider Indian-Pacific area is currently at the centre of international commercial interest. Greece, as a maritime force and as a hub and a gateway to the entry of these countries into Europe, will give greater impetus to the tightening of relations with all these states in the region and will incorporate the countries of sub-Saharan Africa into our interest. Finally, we will build on our traditional very friendly relations with the Latin American and Caribbean countries. At this point I would like to mention the recognition of Juan Guido as the transitional President of Venezuela, a move which we have taken by sharing the positions of the vast majority of our European partners, but also our perceptions of democracy and human rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u64	Minister, do you need a lot more time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u65	Can I have two more minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u66	You've already taken two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u67	Can I get two more?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u68	I'll give you another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, the President is tough. Although he shows me a favor because he was my partner at the Ministry of Development, he returned, ladies and gentlemen, to the "PASOC" cruelty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u70	How the data changes!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to respond to the new era and to serve the exit from the crisis, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs becomes a modern, different ministry. It is now established, except for a foreign policy body to promote national interests and a body to strengthen extroversion. A threefold degree of political and economic diplomacy is created which has not existed until now, which will be assisted by communication diplomacy. We are reconstructing the country's delegations abroad to serve the entire policy of the country, because, ladies and gentlemen, we must all agree that we do not need embassies - seals that do not serve our strategic planning. We believe that with new tools and perception we can escape the introversion and in this context the contribution of Hellenism of the Diaspora will be main. An important element is the Prime Minister's announcement of voting for the emigrant Greeks. I will not go into the many things that I would say first of all about De-democrat Hellenism. I just want to say, in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy, the new government and the new Prime Minister have never been fans of a dreadful Greece, a walled Greece. We have not been supporters of an enclosed Greece. We have not been preachers of an insecure Greece, a declining Greece. We will not compromise with a miserable Greece, with a suspicious Greece, with an isolated Greece. We believe deep in the qualifications of the Greek people, in the advantages of our geopolitical position. We believed and believe in a European, modern, hospitable, open to innovation, tolerant, extrovert, modern, an ambitious Greece, with confidence, a Greece independent and strong. This Greece we want to promote, a bright and irradiated Greece, a new Greece of two hundred years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Gocas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, in my turn, to wish a substantial and productive mandate for the national Parliament and the government, to serve, of course, the national objective of the real and definitive exit from the crisis. In the discussion of the Government's Programme Declarations, based on the Prime Minister's speech, there is ambiguity about an integrated development plan, about the challenge of the definitive overcoming the crisis through a steady process of productive and economic reconstruction in the country, after which, of course, the two periods of economic derailment are primarily responsible. We have not heard from Mr Mitsotakis something about the period 2004-2009, nor, of course, Mr Tsipras never refers with self-criticism in his own period, especially in the first destructive six months, and, of course, with ineffective policy through the approach of governance with sovereign elements of populism, demagogy and rulership. And what exit from the memorandum are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations? By managing the public property from the superstate for ninety-nine years when you voted? By controlling the economy and primary surpluses by 2060? With the debt currently EUR 337 billion and 182% of GDP? In four and a half years, ten to eleven points of GDP growth were lost under the responsibility of the SYRIZA Government. We went way back. On the other hand, the government's Programmatic Declarations raise many questions on key issues relating to the fate of the real economy. There are, of course, other issues on which my colleagues from the Change Movement have covered me with their position. I would like to point out, for my part, the issue of superfluous primary surpluses. We can't afford to go until 2022. Why did you forget what you were saying before? What's changed? We insist that they be reduced as a basic condition for growth. On the other hand, Mr Tsipras has signed them last, when he arrived before leaving the government, presents a so-called proposal for a reduction, to be negotiated. However, those who are, ladies and gentlemen, engaged in the real economy know that everything is at point zero. The small and medium-sized layers have become poor in order for everyone to share poverty together. Overtaxation and tax contributions create asphyxiation. The banks do not finance growth, and red tape is growing rather than falling. The idea of the previous government has established the investments. There are huge charges in the agricultural sector with taxes, an increase in contributions, an increase in the cost of production, and reductions in the disposal of products, as is typically the case in the price of milk. Farmers and farmers are led to the abandonment of their activity, and the countryside is praising. Therefore, there is a need for serious development policies, of course with a state of end and not a state - a spoil, a clientele, as shown in the unfortunate process of defining the Secretary-General. They need policies that will bring investments, which will support the world of production and labour, to create jobs and jobs with dignity for the citizen, with incomes for everyone and revenues for the state, to implement its policies and especially modern social policies. We must be a country that produces, a country that can keep young people, the most productive part of human resources in their country. Ladies and gentlemen, a critical sector that serves productive activities and development is infrastructure and transport. Our prolongation to the PASOK governments has linked its presence to all the major infrastructure projects in our country. New major projects in the previous SYRIZA governance period we didn't have. On the contrary, following the complaint and the vote against all major projects at the time when they were opposition, the follow-up included delays in their execution, a cost of road characteristics of EUR 500 million. But in the end, we had inauguration partitions with shrouds every few miles of the highways. Of course, there are major issues which have also been mentioned since the placement of the relevant Minister for Transport and Infrastructure. I want to stand on Patras - Tower that was ready for auction. It was divided into eight contractors, five contractors and three who are literally 'in the air'. And of course all the work is "in the air", because no work has begun. The landscape is blurred, and today we have not heard any solution from the Minister. It just seemed that the government is not ready, has no plan to deal with the deadlocks in the loose ends of the three major works and of Patras - Tower and of the North Road Axis of Crete, as well as of the Ambros - Preveza Coast. It is, of course, the case of the northern road axis of Crete, which is a characteristic of reasonable carefreeness, with the aim of managing time for unprojected impressions from the previous government. Mr. Spirtzis has spent four and a half years without making any progress in this project. He reinstated this responsibility, and it was entrusted to the Development Agency of Crete. The President of the Change Movement expressed a proposal concerning the entire road system in Crete: To transfer the entire responsibility for the road network to the Region of Crete. So the question to Mr Mitsotakis and the Minister is whether they will adopt this proposal. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Of course, there are other issues relating to intervention in the region which concern integrated development projects supporting all activities in each region. And I would like to mention an example of integrated assistance in the area of infrastructure which could correspond to each region, using my own country, the region of Epirus and Arta. The completion of the Ionian Road with the section to Kakavia, the railway connection between Epirus and Igoumenitsa, the vertical axes of the Ionian Road to Preveza and from the Akti and from the Filipida, but there are also projects involving productive areas, such as the improvement works of the Arta plain that have been stagnated without funding. The Minister said that there are flooding projects from the previous government in progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u74	Please finish, Mr. Goka.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u75	Please, I would like a minute, Mr President. There has been the work of anti-military protection of Arta, part of the NSRF since 2014, for which the study was commissioned, one month before the elections. For us, it is the belief that growth is going through decentralisation policies in the region, and that is why we have a corresponding plan....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Goka, you've been over eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u77	I will conclude with a reference to transport, Mr President, where the 750 bus service is 'in the air'. Of course, this competition can't move on, it's inconsistent. There are staff recruitment issues, spare parts replacements. There is the issue of citizens' suffering and the demand for improved transport at a lower cost, such as the Attica road, which must not go any further in increasing fares. And, of course, all issues need to be resolved. We are waiting for the Minister's bills to be placed in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u78	Finish, Mr. Goka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u79	In conclusion, I say that our policy and our proposals abstain from the logic and positions of the government. We will be present with proposals and constructive contributions, with a serious opposition, responsible and programming. It is clear that we are voting against the Programmatic Declarations and we are waiting for legislative initiatives to be put on every subject specifically and specifically. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u80	Mr Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been counting over ten years of crisis in our country today. In order to be able to actually turn a page we will need to think and do differently than until today, otherwise than usual. No country in Europe has suffered a peacetime decline in its national product by 25% in less than ten years. In the years of SYRIZA added to the economic dimensions of the drama, an attack on the institutions of parliamentary democracy, but also an ideological attack on principles, values and beliefs inherent to the national identity of the Greeks. It's true that after that, people are looking for the normality they lost. But the Prime Minister rightly pointed out that we should not, as a solution, see the return to normality, because our normality contained many of the causes of the crisis. But there is, in my view, just as important a reason why we should not aim for a simple return to normality. We have arrived so low that only the management capacity, the households, the things that connect to normality are not enough. Extreme conditions also require excellent virtues. We need vision and inspiration. We will need to give the struggle of ideas along with the struggle of action, because ideas are finally becoming political or becoming progressive attitudes, and so they are finally being implemented by affecting the course of history. Our homeland historically achieved its greatest achievements after periods of economic, political and national collapse. We can again and this is the big bet of this government. I'll say a few words for the economy first. The tax measures announced in this Chamber are the first breath of a society that has been afflicted by overtaxation for years, it is the first move to liberate the productive forces of the place in accordance with the New Democracy programme, in fact a little better than the programme that has been put forward to the people for approval. We need to see the next steps. Talking about the crisis we usually focus on its budgetary dimension. We must not forget, however, that the crisis has been so acute and so long because it has arisen from two kinds of deficits, and it has otherwise been the budget on the one hand and the balance of payments deficit on the other. The first, the budget, responds relatively directly to policy. The second, the balance of payments, is harder to deal with, requires productive reconstruction in the country. Our country must become productive again in the primary and secondary sectors. It is not just the revenue from tourism as much as its importance is evident to the Greek economy. We have suffered tragic deindustrialisation, but few note that even today the revenue from exports of products as a percentage of GDP is greater than the revenue from exporting services. In particular, we can expect the improvement of the balance of payments, but also quality new jobs on a large scale. The tax incentives must be accompanied by the correction of other distortions that reduce the competitiveness of the economy, the removal of distortions that increase the cost of energy, the removal of bureaucratic obstacles to the licensing of enterprises. The fourth industrial revolution has characteristics that match us much more than the characteristics of industry in previous years. The fourth industrial revolution has a space for small and medium-sized enterprises based on innovation, such as already existing and silently bloom thanks to Greek ingenuity and flexibility, very often in the Greek region and Crete and Chania. As far as the primary sector is concerned, the need to revise it goes beyond the limits of the economic necessity, is a prerequisite for normal life to continue in the countryside. Every corner of our country must stay alive. And here we must complement the measures of the CAP, which we must use to the full, of course, with policy measures aimed at our own particularities, the specificities of our primary sector with the fragmented lot and very often mountain and semi-urban farms. I now come to the battlefield of the ideas to which I referred. In the years of SYRIZA, principles and values were affected that form the back of our national and collective identity. SYRIZA's idealism could not tolerate the simple reality that our Constitution 3 shows what the prevailing religion in Greece is. He could not yet accept the self-evident need expressed in the Constitution with the simple and possible wording that the family as the foundation of the nation is under the protection of the state. The attack was not only manifested in the context of the debate on the constitutional review, it occurred in many fields, and society expects the new government to heal these wounds as well. Recently, SYRIZA has blamed the New Democracy for populism. It sounds like a joke, ladies and gentlemen, and it would be inappropriate to deal with this in this Chamber, but there is a need for some clarification. I guess most of us will agree that populism is the practice of using popular false ones in order to overhaul the citizens' vote. But lately, the use of the term populism is spreading in another sense. For some it is populism any reference to national identity, the need for citizens to safeguard their historical continuity, the borders of their homeland, their collective idiosyncrasies. Excuse me, but the problem of those who maintain such a perception is not, in fact, populism. I fear that the problem in this case for some is the people. This is what we see in some cases both in the European Union and in the leadership of many countries and in international media. Enhanced by such perceptions, our powerful partners were not tempted to praise Alexis Tsipras and his government and their role in the Ambassadors' Agreement, an agreement that was and remains a national defeat, which we are called upon to manage. It is our responsibility and the government's responsibility to combat such perceptions. It is also clear that the basis chosen by the government does not share them. Our liberalism is not dogmatic, it also recognises the collective identity of the citizens, and it has its historic root in the patriotic liberalism of Eleftherios Venizelos. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, still. The Greeks have a national identity and a home with a border. They demand respect for both men and women. In conclusion, I must make a brief reference to an issue in Crete, which now goes beyond the local dimension for this and found its way to the National Infrastructure Programme of New Democracy. Crete is now the last region in the country, which does not have a highway. In the last few weeks of the SYRIZA government, the Cretans have heard a series of fairy tales trying to give the impression that tomorrow we have a new BOAK, on the basis, as the Minister for Infrastructure, a sketch and an idea quite rightly said. It must be made clear that there is no possibility of losing a single day. The Minister for Infrastructure must complete the relevant studies as soon as possible and publish the projects. I welcome his reference to the need to strengthen the Crete Development Agency, which is an essential complement to the promotion of the projects of the BOAK, as we have also made in the election campaigns for Crete to be made in Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Voloudakis, you've been over eight minutes. Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u83	This government is the hope of our country today. The Programming Declarations, as well as the first scripts, are pressing firmly in the programme that was pre-electionally announced. I am obviously giving this government a vote of confidence. Thank you, too, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Voloudakis. Mr Ioannis Ragussis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Four very simple, brief, clear words to the government, especially in the area of civil protection, ladies and gentlemen. First simple and clear talk. It is not an honor to try to wreak or degrade the work of your predecessors. Especially those of you who have been former ministers should not have forgotten how politically such an effort is lacking. Suffice it to say that you have spoken of increasing crime, but the official evidence, which you now have at your disposal, is disgusting. You have put the Prime Minister in his reading of the Programming Declarations for Security Bombs to announce the acquisition of new vehicles for the Security Body, but these are already being received, as Mrs Gerovas has announced in your presence at the Ministry's tradition and so many others, such as civil protection, firefighting, the transfer of Korydalou Prisons or the utilization of the area in the Fertilisers in Drapetsona, which we will have the opportunity to discuss in the next period. The second simple and clear talk. During the guiding and irresponsible opposition, you sought to create an atmosphere of insecurity in the Greek society. And the truth is, you've achieved this to a large extent. You presented Greece as a dangerous country that you had to come to save. You won parties on the doctrine "law and order". Even after you took up your duties you went with a salivistic inspiration structural government changes. Because only in the ultra-rightful Salvian code of values are your completely unscientific choices such as police the penitentiary policy of a country of western civilization and European Enlightenment, such as Greece. During your infamous and salivistic opposition, you strongly attacked to exploit part-time all deaths in prisons, any escape from prisons, any unlawful action of anarchists, every molotov in Exarchia. At the same time, however, you made the fatal political mistake. You have set the cubit too high for yourself. And don't be fooled, on the basis of this tall cubit you are judged and judged by the Greek society, especially by the citizens you have terrified for as long as you are government. From the very beginning of his term as President of the New Democracy, Mr. Mitsotakis reiterated the following mythical commitments and let him make sure that he silenced them in his Programming Declarations: "I will end with the unbaptised excavations from the first month. Tolerance in the groupskulla is ending, he said, on 8 July." That was Mr. Mitsotakis' seventh guilty silence. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, why did he not dare repeat these commitments, neither did Mr Mitsotakis himself nor his Minister himself? For these days in the government of Mitsotakis and the Minister of Chrysochoidis, unfortunately, we had two deaths in prisons, two escapes from the Cassandra prisons, yesterday we had the first unlawful action of "Ruvikon", and the day before 20 July at 03.40, we had at dawn a molotov attack against the MAT platoon in Charilaos Trikoupi without any appeals, without arrests. But because we are not like you and we do not want to become, we will give the one month Mr Mitsotakis has asked for. However, since August 10th for every molotov that will explode in Exarchia, for any death or escape from prisons, for every unlawful act of "Rubicon" and for every non-genus - terrorist energy we will be able to issue a statement in which, if we were like you, we would ask for your resignation today. However, we must explain so as not to confuse you. Make sure that the time does not come when we will issue a regular announcement to ask for your resignation. We can assure you that this will happen without hesitation, for reasons of defence of the rule of law, of protection of the public interest, of course, as well as of human rights, which you do not think will be respected in full. Third simple and clear talk. Your first word, first promise, what was it? Civicism. Your first act, your first intersectional decision contrary to your first promise what was it? The undignified and undignified caratomy of the Chief of Greek Police, a leader who - notice - was the one who replaced Mr. Tsouvala, who, as you know, Mr. Tsouvala was the Chief of ELAS in Matti. What was your second act? The absolutely anxiocratic and party appointment of Mr. Tsouvala as Secretary-General to the Ministry of Civil Protection. Honestly, never in recent Greek history has the notion and meaning of worthyness been abused more quickly. You have proved that you are not the bodies of dignity. You are unfortunately the bodies of the right-wing in Greece of 2019 and that is sad. You also announced a thousand five hundred police recruits by the end of the year. Are you really going to organize extraordinary pan-Hellenic tests in the autumn, or are you going to dare turn the police into her problem yesterday of multiple backgrounds of her officers? Will this be a modern conception of the organization of human resources in the Greek state? You decided to turn us back to the time of the gendarmerie and the savage? Fourth and last word, and I'll be done. Until recently we have known the distinction between politics and communication. You have now introduced a distinction between political communication and theatreism, governmental salivistic theatreism that would not be worthy of reason if it were not at the same time dangerous to society and the real economy. And I'm explaining. Thirty million tourists choose Greece as a destination because they believe, along with what they love from this country, that it is an absolutely safe tourist destination. With what logic and for what necessity are you suddenly getting at points of top tourist interest all-armed policemen and transmitting TV reports accordingly by self-advertising? With what right do you like Athens to Bataklan in Paris or other capital cities, who have actually received brutal terrorist strikes? In what sense and for what necessity do you, in essence, call into question the security of tourist Greece? And if you send all-armed policemen to the pillars of Olympios Dios how do you protect Mycenes, Delphi, Vergina, Knossos and the other thousands of archaeological and tourist treasures throughout the country? At last, get serious and leave the safe Greek tourism. Stop the dangerous communication theatrifications and look at one single thing, how you will manage your certain and discounted failure to go over the tall cubit, which you yourself raised on security issues, taking the worst advantage of this feeling of this need of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u86	Before I invite Mrs. Kerameos, I have the honour to announce the protocol number 11783/6714 from 22 July 2019 to the decision of the President of the Parliament on the setting-up of the Permanent Committees of the Parliament. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u87	The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with a sense of great honour and responsibility, I am here today to develop our priorities and the main actions that we will take in the next period in the field of education. On the occasion of this first speech, I would like to thank publicly the Prime Minister for the excellent honour of entrusting me with this crucial portfolio for the present and future of our children and our country. Let me begin by mentioning the six main objectives that are horizontally defined in our programme. Objective one: greater freedom, greater autonomy for schools and universities. We are exploiting the great potential of our teachers, we are liberating their dynamism. Second objective: extroversion and more substantial interconnection with the labour market. Third objective: equal opportunities for all. Education is the most effective mechanism for social mobility and our main concern is to ensure equal access to quality education for all. Fourth objective: emphasis and utilization of new data from the digital age. At a time when technology is changing rapidly and radically our lives and the real economy, it is not about access to knowledge, it is about more efficient processing and utilization of knowledge. Development of technology at all levels of education, cultivation of the necessary digital skills in our young people. Fifth objective: it is not only to deliver to society educated young people but also more integrated citizens, citizens who have developed mild skills, who can adapt to an environment that is constantly changing, who will have advanced indicators of cooperation, mutual respect and reciprocity. The aim is therefore to strengthen the indicators of social capital, which will boost social and economic development. Adopted by the Commission on 16 December. In order to improve the educational processes we should be able to measure them and value them. It is therefore necessary to place greater emphasis on the finances of education, namely the study of all the economic aspects of the educational process, with an emphasis on human capital, so that we have the appropriate tools to design and implement more efficiently. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last four and a half years education has been affected by the logic of a minor effort, equilibrium downwards, the demonization of excellence. This course will be restrained. The values of hard work, dignity and excellence will be restored. And since I am talking about excellence, ladies and gentlemen, for us excellence is not a relic, for us excellence is an attitude of life. Excellency is constantly trying to get over yourself, trying to get better every day. In particular, with regard to our programming positions, starting from the foundations, from the bottom of the pyramid upwards, we will place particular emphasis on strengthening pre-school education and we are already working hard to make two-year pre-school education possible, despite the significant shortages in infrastructure that we have inherited from the outgoing government. Continuing primary and secondary education, our central aim is to free the school from the suffocating embrace of the Ministry of Education and to show greater confidence in teachers. We are simplifying a series of procedures for the organisation of educational activities, such as the conduct of school tours and the participation in competitions and Olympics. We embellish the school unit, upgrade the role of the director, promote a new system of selection of training managers, reorganise the structures of support for the educational project, focusing on structures closer to the physical school unit, gradually abolishing existing hydro-heads and centralised support structures, and give more freedom to teachers in terms of teaching in order. We are investing more in teachers means, ladies and gentlemen, and that we will provide them with the appropriate tools so that they can carry out their work in an uninterrupted manner. We focus, after many years, on the training of teachers. We are promoting an evaluation system starting from school units and then moving towards teachers, with the sole aim of rewarding teachers and improving them through training. We record specific needs for general education teachers across the country and gradually resolve the major issue of assistant teachers. And we are announcing today, ladies and gentlemen, the reduction in the secondment of teachers to institutions to return more teachers to classes. In special treatment, we are already speeding up the recruitment process of four and a half thousand teachers. On a third level, we ensure access to quality education for all students and equip our young people with new skills. We are reintroducing and strengthening the institution of pilot and experimental schools. We are studying a new coherent curriculum from primary to high school. The curriculum will also be enriched with new educational themes, such as volunteering, entrepreneurship, respect for others, prevention of natural disasters, nutrition and hygiene. We are strengthening the learning of foreign languages and informatics knowledge. We emphasise the cultivation of so-called'soft skills' and so-called 'digital skills'. We establish school orientation from high school so that children are able to discover their actual gradients early. We are gradually adapting our educational system towards the full development of inclusive education. We are setting up training programmes for the school structures of special education and training appropriately weighted for the type of disability and special educational needs and we are setting up protected apprenticeship and training workshops. We are strengthening the autonomous educational role of high school, with targeted interventions in relation to the national education centre and the promotional examinations from classroom to class. We are establishing a new framework for private education, with greater degrees of freedom, for example in the preparation of additional educational activities and at the same time protecting the working rights of teachers. We are immediately improving distortions of the current system of introduction into higher education and, over time, without surprise to the educational world, we are bringing about more substantial changes, after thorough monitoring with the stakeholders concerned. We set a minimum basis for introduction to higher institutions, and from there on, institutions may define an import base which they choose is higher than the minimum import base. As also the institutions, as the Prime Minister has already announced, will set the annual number of importers. We are radically changing vocational education and Lifelong Learning. Our aim is for vocational training from a need-solving solution to become a conscious choice and employment tool for many. For example, we set up vocational schools standards and provide for a more active role for the social partners at local and regional level. We are setting up a new framework for the operation of vocational apprenticeship schools. In Lifelong Learning, it is possible to certify knowledge and skills to all interested parties within the framework of non-formal and informal learning. We upgrade adults' skills for optimal integration or reintegration into the labour market and reduce social exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to Higher Education as well. The reform in Higher Education aims at academic institutions that are truly autonomous, self-governing, evaluated, competitive, extroverted, in common stepping up with the labour market. Indicatively, as you know and as has already been announced, we are returning the universities to those who really belong, namely students, teachers and administrative staff, by abolishing the wrongly understood asylum. Public authorities will be able to intervene on their own initiative for any criminal offence that takes place within the institutions. Secondly, we are establishing modern and efficient administrative structures, with distinct and clearly defined responsibilities. Thirdly, we are establishing a maximum time limit for the completion of undergraduate studies, n+2, with the exception of exceptions, mainly for health reasons. Fourthly, we are strengthening the autonomy and extroversion of the institutions. We are liberalising postgraduate courses. We are widening the possibility of creating foreign-language undergraduate programmes. We support summer and winter schools in areas where the country has a comparative advantage, such as culture, such as shipping, such as tourism. We develop distance education programmes at undergraduate and postgraduate level, with investment in new technologies. We are making use of the possibility of public and private partnerships to meet the fundamental needs of the institutions, such as the construction of student restaurants, which our country so much needs, through so-called PPPs. We are introducing a new institutional framework for donations to institutions and for the implementation of patents and scientific ideas. We are moving towards simplifying the working framework of the PPE, without violating the rules on transparency and accountability. We extend the institution of student practice to public and private bodies in relation to their studies. Fifthly, we applaud the principle of quality assurance and certification in Higher Education, the so-called IPI, and we introduce evaluation procedures at all levels. State funding to the Higher Institutions will depend on objective criteria such as the cost of study per student, the duration of study programmes, the size and geographical spread of the institution, but, ladies and gentlemen, state funding will be linked to some of the results of the evaluation of these institutions. The country's academic map will be derived from the assessment of the PPP and on the basis of specific criteria, in order not to repeat the catastrophic phenomenon of the establishment of new sections and mergers in order to serve purely electoral designs and micropolitical interests. Finally, regarding the area of religions, the opportunity has recently been given to both the Prime Minister and me to develop some initial thoughts on the new thought that we intend to build with the Church, respecting the distinct institutional roles of State and Church. Ladies and gentlemen, some of our programme positions on education require money to be implemented and, yes, we will seek to increase the state budget for education. But most of our interventions do not require money. They just demand political will and a change of attitude. Greece of tomorrow is Greece who first invests in its children, designs for them, envisions with boldness, improves processes and infrastructures and shapes the conditions for an even better future than ours. We believe deep, ladies and gentlemen, that our future passes through our schools and universities. It's up to us tomorrow. Knowing this responsibility, believing in the new children and the possibilities of the excellent teachers of education, we will build the new free school and university. This is our mission. And in this effort we are and will be open to every proposal, to every idea, to every dialogue. We'll work hard to give our children the future they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is challengingly obvious, but not unexpected, that the New Democracy Government continues where SYRIZA stopped. Their policies look like a drop of water, building the next one where the previous one built, regardless of individual differences, mixtures or dosages. This also applies to the local administration, with the Government continuing to follow up the legislation of PASOK and SYRIZA's "CLISTEN". The change of electoral law in local government, on the pretext of the cyberdynamicity of the municipalities, which are shattered between the New Democracy and SYRIZA for the electoral system, cannot hide their strategic coexistence for the adaptation of the urban state and the local administration to the needs of capitalist development, entrepreneurship, the necessary cooperation of their groups to operate the political diploma on local and regional councils. It turns out that municipalities and regions act as rings for a single state mechanism having the same objective, cutting spending on people's needs and releasing more central resources to serve business plans, a plan that lasts 20 years and is binding on all governments. At the time that state funding is constantly falling, the amount of which is determined by the medium-term 2018-2022, the only revenue that is constantly increasing is the same revenue, i.e. fees and taxes. The New Democracy maintains ENPIA, as did SYRIZA. However, it is misleading when it says that it ensures the necessary resources for the TAs by strengthening their tax decentralisation. The transfer of HPAI to the municipalities, amounting to 2 billion, while reducing the State subsidy constitutes a plan to convert the character into a reward fee. Along with the increase in the objective values of the real estate, it will take the tour, placing more on the pocket of the people's families. HISH finally came to stay as a tax directly from the municipalities or through the state budget. On the contrary, however, basic works of anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism protection, which relate to the life and safety of the people, cannot be tolerated by the need for profitability of business groups and budgetary constraints. It is mathematically certain that our people will be mourning again. The Prime Minister, identifying local government as the first level of authority that ensures social cohesion, a position which SYRIZA and the Change-PASOK do not question, seeks the consent of the local families to transfer responsibilities from the central government to local government, such as primary health care, the continuation of the financial corset to OTA finances, the decoupling of state funding in its name, supposedly, self-sufficiency of the municipalities, the establishment of a local government fund, the sale of immovable property, the promotion of PPPs, literally basing capital on projects and services related to popular needs, the lending of the municipalities by banks as a source of funding. This is the carpet to press the capital as a whole in the operation of local administration. Not only will the JRC give its consent to these plans, but it will do what the people have voted for them. From a position of real people opposition, it will, together with the people, claim full state funding for Ottawa, abolish HIPIA, recompense, business activity of PPPs, while increasing the taxation of large capital to 45%, taxation of large real estate, cancellation of auctions, poor and unemployed households, state planning and funding of all necessary projects, prevention and treatment of natural disasters, infrastructure and services that protect and relieve the people, permanentisation of contractors, without terms and conditions, adequate staffing all social structures with permanent fixed work. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words about immigration. And on this issue, the New Democracy Government is catching the thread from where SYRIZA left it. It strengthens the repression and caging of refugees and immigrants in the islands and in the rest of Greece. Here's the law and order. He's transferring powers to the Ministry of Public Order. It extends the disgusting reception and identification centres, as Mr Chrysochoid's good words about the Moria hellery testimonies testify. It abolishes the circular for the problematic access of refugees to medical care anyway, through the performance of AMCA. He continues his work on SYRIZA for the new hot spot in Samos. So the fight between them is chic. They are differentiated only to the mixture of suppression. They implement the European Union-Turkey agreement, the Shegen and Dublin which captures refugees and immigrants, which encourages NGOs and various circuits operating in refugees and immigrants and disembodiing European funding, which is nothing but aids their caging. Above all, however, they are actively involved in imperialist organisations and wars, they agree on the capitalist development path that causes the uprooting of millions of people and the supply of capitalists with cheap labour. The JRC will take the lead in the fight against the European Union-Turkey Agreement, in Shegen and Dublin, to close the horrendous hot spots, to transfer asylum seekers to mainland Greece and from there to their countries of destination, for residence permits, as long as they live and work in Greece, without paradoxically, neutralising conditions and suffering, for equal rights, to open up the path of overthrowing the barbaric system of exploitation and imperialist wars responsible for poverty, immigration and refugee, so as to finally open up the path of real overthrow with the working class, the people in power. It is therefore clear from all the above that the JRC is voting against the Programmatic Declarations. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. Mr Stamenitis has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to wish the new government a good and productive mandate, but also the new Parliament for the sake of our country and all Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, we are ten years after our country entered the memorial era, five years after the referendum took place and the imposition on the economic life of the country, the capital control and just two weeks after the new Parliament and the new government, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Three main stations in our country's course in recent years. Two of them are a recent story, they have been evaluated, measured. What we've been through is familiar. The third station, however, is a reality that we are experiencing today. Now, it's not history, it's present and we can work to make it a bright future. After ten years of crisis, tired, but upright, frustrated and optimistic Greeks and Greeks chose Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy to be the ones who will close the chapter of the memoranda, the depreciation of politics, division, economic impoverishment, the feeling of lasting insecurity that has troubled the Greek people. In this great challenge, the government and the Prime Minister respond positively. The incision of the new model of governance identifies the fact that contrary to the period of grace requested by the previous government, which even justified tragic errors, omissions, failures, even four years after the country's rule, the new pattern, the Prime Minister, come as if they were always ready to do the job. The first few days are indicative. They create hope, but also the belief that Greece will finally be able to take the big step in the future. The establishment plan on which the government work will be based, the costly proposals in all areas, timetables, the evaluation of achievement of objectives, in addition to their practical significance, are of great symbolic importance. The Greeks feel that yes, there are better. That they're not all the same, that we can change, as long as we believe and work for it. And this is the great deposit of the first ten days, in a country that has been killed by promises, to a people who have been afflicted by lies and incarcerated populism. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting for a vote of confidence in a government that immediately tables bills that will make our lives better. The first bill on the functioning of the state comes, for a state of modern and effective, flexible, which will serve citizens and respect their money and immediately afterwards the tax bill that will provide immediate relief to all citizens, with tax reliefs, which the Prime Minister presented on Saturday. And obviously, we don't live in them. We move on to legislation on agriculture, education, health, infrastructure, culture, technology, showing in the most absolute and clear way which Greece we want. Here, I would also like to focus on issues that are particularly concerned with my country, Pella, which are afflicting the people of Pella many decades. The first is the announcement by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Voridis, on the reform of the new CAP to support producers' incomes, but also on the revision of the ELGA regulation to speed up the process of compensation for producers and make them fair and modern. The second is infrastructure, an area in which our prefecture hurts more than anyone else. After many years we have seen the construction of this great project, the street Thessaloniki - Giannitsa - Edessa in the first priorities of the infrastructure programme, a development that will be our main tool for further development of the region. It will provide security for the movements and get Pella out of the transport isolation. Finally, the part of culture and tourism. I mention the design for the promotion of the cultural product of central Macedonia, through the Triangle Pella - Vergina - Amphipolis, so that the name Macedonia becomes a point of attraction for foreign investors and visitors around the world, a great project that will bring northern Greece, Macedonia and Pella to the world's forefront, a place rich in history and culture. But here I would like to say this to SYRIZA colleagues who are looking for justice, but also to those who want to re-exploit an extremely important issue. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we did not grant Macedonian language and Macedonian ethnicity to the Skopje. You did it with the Prespecies Agreement. We have promised and will work to alleviate the negative consequences of the bad agreement that you have voted on. Of course, we are not going to dismiss our country's right to veto the Macedonian accession process in the European Union, which you have done with the bad agreement. We were and will remain against the Prespecies Agreement, which is a bad agreement, which creates huge economic and political problems in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the production of work and the tangible results in the daily lives of the citizens are the weapon in the fight against populism and depreciation of politics. A few words, a lot of work, more work. This government proves very soon that the bet can be won, that Greece can enter the path of political normality, sound political confrontation, economic growth and hope. That is why I am voting in favour of the Programmatic Declarations. Ten years after the economic crisis the Greeks deserve the prospect of a better tomorrow. Greece deserves to go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Stamenitis, for the time. Mr Euripidis Stylianides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the second opportunity always makes you stronger, more experienced and in any case more prepared to deal with the challenges of your time and the problems of your time. I want from the Step of the Greek Parliament with all my heart to thank my beloved compatriots in Rhodope for their undisturbed love and uninterrupted trust in my face. Indicating me for the tenth time first MP, they give me the opportunity today, overcoming the absurdity of the electoral law, to return determined to collide, correct and complement what I deeply self-critically pointed out primarily to myself and, of course, to the public life of my country. Today we are discussing the launch of a new era where knowledge and knowledge are replaced by information. The speed of decisions and actions is now an important aspect of success. The adequacy of choices to persons, the effectiveness of policies applied, the costing of money and the time of each individual action are elements that complement the success conditions. I believe that the government of Mr Mitsotakis has shown this preparedness and aptitude from the very beginning. And this is a hopeful message towards a society that goes out hurt, and proudly, of the greatest crisis that Greece experienced after World War II, but also towards a market that experienced and continues to experience, the hardest test of its real economy. Three are the areas where both the government and the political system are called upon to examine in general. Firstly, it is the reconstruction of the state and the redefinition of the relationship between a citizen and a solid environment for restoring social justice. Secondly, it is the relaunch of the real economy to produce fresh wealth for the country and create new jobs for its citizens. Thirdly, it is to strengthen the country's internal and external security, which will bring Greece back to international protagonist roles and exploit the virtues of the Greeks as well as the comparative advantages of our country and nation. It is necessary to reach agreement between us, to abandon the ideologies and fanaticism of the past, the barren controversy and with a fertile dialogue and a democratic strife of arguments to learn to compose and create. It does not tallen, ladies and gentlemen, its political stature by anyone who exalts and accuses his opponents. It does not win the strategic battles, anyone who is slandering, prosecuting and undermining the other. It does not concern the pages of history, who, instead of creating, destroying and not agreeing and uniting, splitting, muddling and smuggling. Our government today aspires not just to start a new period, but to launch a new era. The culmination of this effort is no more than a review of the country's state charter. The Review House, starting with its work, must transmit a different, distinct and strong signal of change to both the Greek society and the international community. The constitution we're going to change is not a simple law. It is the institutional codification of our worthy code, the synthetic expression of our timeless, but also of our modern national and cultural identity that is necessary in an ever-changing globalised environment. That is why the political forces have a historic responsibility to approach it with their eyes, not in the next elections, but in the next generations. Mr President, at this point I would like to thank Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the honour and confidence he has shown in my face, proposing that I take over the chairman of the Committee on Revision of the Constitution. I pledge before the National Representation that I will give my best scientific and political self. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me two thoughts about my special homeland, Thrace and Rhodope. You should know that, as history proves, this land of acronym Greece can, if we do not notice, trigger the biggest, perhaps modern, national issue. But it can, with the right and prudent policies, raise on its back the reconstruction of the national economy, the restoration of economic extroversion, the guarantee of defence and security, the safeguarding of energy security throughout Europe, the protection of European borders and, of course, the shielding of modern democracy through the establishment of an open democratic society that fully respects human and minority rights. In pursuit of the demographic enhancement of Thrace, which is the basis for every policy, I am currently tabling five outline objectives and I ask the government to implement them. Firstly, the strengthening of the Democrat University with the aim of upgrading it to resources, teachers and students, since this is the most successful time-consuming and cross-party investment in the region of Thrace. Secondly, the direct support for our farmers, who have suffered a total disaster by the recent extreme phenomena and the rapid development of agricultural infrastructure. Thirdly, the direct payment of 300 million which the Greek state owes to firms in the region in recent years, due to 12% for subsidisation of workers, which has been the cause of the company leaving and of the unemployment being extinguished. Fourthly, the use of vertical axes with a view to targeted tourist development of four seasons for the benefit of the local market. And, fifthly, demanding that the transfer of the FRONTEX administration and education centre from Poland to Thrace, to the police schools infrastructure, so that ten thousand European border guards are trained in the field and thus protecting not only the European borders, but also create a sense of security in the local society of the remote region. On all these issues, I have prepared proposals which I will present to the Ministers responsible in the next period. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a deep hope that this government, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, will operate differently, quickly and effectively. We as parliamentarians trust her and we will support her, because we believe that our guide in this period that starts should be the only interest of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people have given us the clear command for realistic disobedience and creative opposition against measures to limit the power of the Greek state in order to regain its sovereignty over the border-free Oligarchy. Our aim is not just to blame and complaints, but to highlight solutions. The government's Programming Declarations were not substantial news about the acute problem of poverty below the limit of 46.3% of our fellow citizens living because of a fall in GDP and available income, while a shift in poverty from the elderly to the children and young couples with the well-known demographic consequences of the depopulation of the country and the extreme low fertility to which it has led. Given that the highest poverty rates mainly concern children up to seventeen years of age without access to basic education and the health system, it is imperative to create a different framework for sustainable development that does not serve the oligarchies which the government seems to favour with the public investment and development strategy, but which aims to ensure human dignity and prosperity with priority for young people and to reduce unemployment rates. Mera25 has already tabled a proposal for the establishment of a fund to combat poverty, financed through the public extra-bank payment system we are proposing. It is our constitutional, moral and social obligation to ensure decent living for everyone and everyone. With regard to taxation: The head of the European Stability Mechanism Klaus Regling has already pointed out that the bill may also include unpleasant surprises, such as the one concerning the expansion of the tax base, as from 2020, there has been a reduction in duty. The division of the tax bill is precisely what Mera25 has already stressed, that all the announcements are under the mandate of achieving the target of 3.5% of GDP as a primary surplus. It should be noted that the reductions in the tax rates announced by the government are the same for all ages, and in no way the issue of abolishing 100% of the tax proposed by the Merra25 is affected. To sum up, the government promises alleviations, which require a break with the lenders, which New Democracy is unable to do. Thirdly, respect and protection of both creative entrepreneurship and wage labour are the main pillar of our political culture. We are in favour of healthy competition in a market that, with the existing institutional framework, the exacerbation of tax evasion, the weakening of control mechanisms and the suffocation of institutions cannot function properly. Within this framework, it is also part of a few days ago that the Labour Inspectorate is now part of the General Secretariat, the General Secretariat for the Management of Community and Other Resources, the Directorate-General for Health and Safety at Work, thereby losing its autonomy, its flexibility, i.e. self-management of work issues, and in particular the control and care of the legal framework for the protection of workers, especially in a business context. This is how it is equated administratively with Directorates-General. Knowing the bureaucratic issues of public administration, one is aware of the negative issue that arises. Of course, this does not surprise us, since the agency's support has already been abolished by No. 113/2014. PART25 recommends maintaining and strengthening the autonomy of the Labour Inspectorate. Although Mr Vesyropoulos prefers that in the draft law on the final state to be introduced into the House immediately after giving the government a vote of confidence, positions of directors are being established, we believe that the concept of autonomy in bodies such as the Labour Inspectorate is inalienable and must be guaranteed even in the Constitution. And ultimately, which seems to operate in Greece today, should not be abolished, but strengthened and shielded. In the same category as the Presidential Decree, the IMO is subject to the decision, since its responsibilities, positions, staff and supervised bodies are transferred to the new Secretariat for Tax Policy and Public Property. In the view of Mera25, the introduction of the autonomy of these bodies and their strengthening both with resources and with institutional tools is a one-way path. In conclusion, we cannot discuss the issue of university asylum. The New Democracy believes in its pre-election commitment to extremist authoritarianism, it speaks of abolishing the asylum by supporting the necessity of the measure in two accounts: that our democracy does not need university asylum and that the police cannot interfere with self-imposed felony acts. None of the two is present and this is for the following reasons: The university is a field of ideological fermentation, exchange of progressive ideas, incubator of social and political movements, space of academic instruction and research. It is therefore an excellent field of expression of the democratic ideal, where dialogue and a fruitful confrontation of ideas can lead, as a pillar of democracy, to progressively synthetic results. As for the second record, according to the existing legislative framework, police authorities may intervene in the case of malicious acts without the permission of the Senate. The issue of abolition or non-asylum is a constitutional and legal issue and not a political issue. The people therefore did not order the abolition of asylum, but ordered that the Constitution be complied with. According to the legal foundation of Aristovoulos Mansis, university asylum is a constitutional institution interlinked with academic teaching and self-interest of universities. To say this simply, university asylum means that as far as academic freedom and asylum are concerned, no one, except for the subjects of academic freedom, teachers and students, is entitled to enter, and much more to remain within the university, without any invitation from the collective bodies of teachers and students and without permission from their own authorities. Asylum is true to all, how much more than the private powers they invade without the authorization of the self-government authorities, committing criminal offences which, above all, violate the rights of asylum under the Constitution. Unfortunately, the act has shown that responsibility is, above all, the rectoring authorities, who have so far proved horrendous indifference and indifference to take the initiative to provoke police and public prosecutors. In any case, also, it is sufficient to take a look at areas where there is no university institution from the center of Athens to Menidi, to find that it is not the asylum...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u97	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u98	I shall conclude, Mr President. ... which prevents crime and drug trafficking from being dealt with, but a lack of political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u99	Thank you. The Minister for Justice has the floor, Mr. Tsiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common confession that we receive the country's responsibility for governance at a critical turning point, especially for the sensitive area of justice, which continues to be a key pillar of the Parliamentary Republic and the rule of law, but also at the same time constitutes an indicator of the protection of citizens against maladministration, a lever to combat corruption and a guarantor of human rights. Together with the Deputy Minister Kranis we receive the Ministry of Justice's portfolio to deal, as effectively as possible, with the chronic diseases of our judiciary: on the one hand, the delays in the administration of justice, which we all know are inhibiting the country's development effort, while at the same time discouraging citizens and making it difficult for them to access justice and, on the other hand, to deal with pluralism, this obsceneness of legislation that remains scattered and in many tough ways. These are the key problems affecting the validity of justice itself in the consciousness of the public and often neutralize much of the value of judicial decisions. As a government, in accordance with the guidelines and instructions of Prime Minister Mitsotakis, we have defined a specific framework of action, which provides inter alia: The establishment of special chambers in the courts of the country, which will undertake to deal with specific cases, such as competition cases, contracts, family law cases, speeding up the pace of justice. Reform of the institutional framework in order to strengthen alternative methods of dispute settlement, such as mediation and arbitration. The extension of computerisation and e-government in the field of justice, with the completion of the second phase of the integrated judicial management system, the so-called IACC for those who know the area of justice. The creation of a fair observatory with a view to collecting and processing reliable statistics that will facilitate the development of a long-term policy and enable corrective action to be taken on the political leadership concerned, in order to avoid hampering the work of judges. It also provides for the dismantling of the system by means of staffing and rationalising the territorial distribution of courts. The administration of the courts with judges and judges by means of a tender, which will be directly linked to ongoing training and specialisation procedures. The resolution of a new Code of Judiciary and Judiciary officials who will form a new grid of institutions and act on the personal and operational independence of justice officials. The codification of legislation and the speeding up of the transposition of Community directives into national law in full cooperation with the relevant ministries, in order for our country to avoid unnecessary fines, but much more so with the recommendations that tarnish its image abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the attempt to reduce judicial matter in previous years has had beneficial effects on the decongestion of justice. It has, however, disproportionately burdened Greek society, instigating the sense of impunity and lawlessness and, of course, finally increasing the infraction, which has established Greek citizens the sense of insecurity. The new government is now called upon to solve a complex equation, an equation that on one side has the acceleration of the administration of justice, and on the other the restoration of citizens' accessibility and confidence in Themida and its officials. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are already two big loose ends in our hands that we have inherited from the previous government. The first concerns the choice of the leadership of justice and the second concerns the correction of the new Criminal Code. As regards the first part, the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, has clarified to the first Ministerial Council that we will restore peace in the ranks of justice with the choices of her new leadership. Our compass will constitute the dignity and respect of the hierarchy of the high officials of Themida. With regard to the new Criminal Code, the Government is determined to make immediate corrections to the problem. We have already made it clear that the amendments will be directed towards tightening up the framework for conditional redundancies and the framework for authorising convicted unrepentant terrorists. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Criminal Code is - I want to make it clear, and I think it does not leave any question - an important legislative project. That's the reality. And I think it's a reality that everyone accepts. And I will not go into any logic of political controversy, at least for today. Unfortunately, this important project was sacrificed by the previous government on the altar of ideological prejudices, to finally create - in the way and the time it has been promoted - more problems than it has attempted to resolve, in principle, why it contains articles, which are virtually inapplicable. We know, for example, the provisions on social benefits. Has there been any consultation with the OTAs? Is there an institutional framework within which this provision can function? Also, for judicial criminal mediation, is there preparedness on the part of judicial officers to support such a choice? However, these are all issues which we will see in a very short time. On the other hand, there are provisions that have caused the strong reaction of international actors, the OECD, the GRECO. A few days ago, I think we were all socialists of such an event very specific, I would say to you, criticisms, which we all know are blackening our country's image internationally. Ladies and gentlemen, in cases of opacity the government will be ruthless. We will not have any tolerance for corruption. We are already working on a bold reform with the creation of the National Transparency Authority, a Authority in the model of the most successful international counterparts, which will effectively address the fragmentation and duplication of the responsibilities inherent in the current institutional framework. It is a new body, which will assume all the responsibilities of the current control mechanisms, with the main objective of better planning and coordination of actions, upgrading audit standards and methodologies and improving the effectiveness of audit mechanisms. It is a new mechanism that will never allow anyone to work on combating corruption again for micro-political targets. In the area of human rights a compass of the new government is the constant alignment of our country with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. In this context, the objectives of the Ministry of Justice's political leadership include updating the national action plan on human rights, addressing racism and intolerance, and protecting the child and his rights. Ladies and gentlemen, independent justice which guarantees the fight against corruption, which ensures equality and equality, is a key priority for the government. You know, all this time before, there is a great question on the part of the Greek public regarding the role and independence of justice. Our debt is this independence of justice, which is an inalienable condition, to bring it back to peace everywhere, above all to restore the confidence of citizens, to feel again that justice is independent, that it is credible and effective. That's our target. That is the purpose we will serve. This is our vision of a justice - indicator of our quality, culture and democracy. We all recognise that justice is a key pillar of democracy. It is of great importance with choices that will be supported by the Ministry's political leadership or by Parliament itself, to prove that justice is indeed a pillar of democracy. In this direction, then, citizens demand that we join forces, unite all our efforts together. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the choice of composition and social consensus is ultimately the path of effort and creation, it is the real path of progress, it is the way to a fair and strong society, it is the way that the current government will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u101	Mr Santorinios has the floor. After Mr Santorini, we will give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u103	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u104	I request the floor under Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure just to ask the Minister something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u105	To be brief, however, the question, because it may be necessary to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u106	I know my duties well, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u107	I don't ask you for an irregularity. I'm just telling you to be brief. It is a good request in advance to the Minister, although if he gives an answer, to be very brief, so that we do not waste time. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor. I think a minute is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u108	One minute, he's covering for me. Minister, listening to the Prime Minister and you today in relation to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the opposition - at least we - has not understood exactly how you intend to intervene. I did an entire speech yesterday. I don't have time to repeat it. However, the main elements of my speech were that those provisions, which have problems, should be isolated and that Parliament should be given time to make good speeches. However, I did not understand what you said today if you would follow the code procedure again, which is a long and time-consuming procedure under Article 76 of the Constitution, or if you would bring certain points of view. Also, we don't understand the time horizon you have for all of this. What did we ask for yesterday? We asked when you brought your own legislation to Parliament, to have time. We believe that you should not follow the procedure of the codes, but the procedure for amending the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u109	Good. Minister, you have the floor for a minute. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u110	I will not need any more time, Mr President. I accept your intervention and your questions as very correct, Mr Loverdos. Of course, you realise that the government has a programming through which it will operate in the next period. I do not hide from you that there has been a more general reflection on the questions you have raised. I tell you in advance that the code procedure cannot be followed. These interventions are very targeted, and it is clear that we are determined to follow the entire institutional process, which at least is provided for in this version.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are experiencing a theater of irrationality. One after another, the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers, whatever specific they announce, are works and actions that our government has either carried out or put in tracks, and in relation to the actual agenda of the new government, the menu has only half of all halves and guilty silences. In the field of shipping and insular policy, the speech of the Minister responsible was rather confused and seemed to try to hide the real agenda of the government. We have heard nothing specific about the issues of seaworking, coastal shipping, islands, and we have heard the clear turn to the full transfer of maritime education and regional ports to private unconditionally. So the truth is that it was our government that spread a protection net to seafarers. We have established a framework for the protection of workers on the coastline, which even provides for prohibitions of departure in the event of debts to seafarers. We have introduced a fine for uninsured seafaring work and for violating seafarers' rest limits, while under the collective contracts signed, Greek seafarers have seen 2% per year in succession and improving the organic compositions of ships. Really, what is the government's real plan for shipping? What is this blurred 'improvement of the employability of seafarers' that we have heard? In maritime education, we have heard about an upgraded public maritime education, but hiding the real agenda for the introduction of private maritime education, which will lead to a deterioration in public education. A number of initiatives have been announced on the subject that has already been implemented or launched by our own government. The truth is that we put a brake on the depreciation, the abandonment of public maritime education, launched by the former Government of New Democracy. We created new schools, such as AEN Kalymnos, we created the KESEN Macedonia that starts in September, and the Minister announced it for his own work, we strengthened the AEN facilities and equipment with resources of more than 70m euros from the ESRB, from the Public Investment Program and donations of the maritime world, and we announced new staff posts when you had abolished a hundred and eighty seats in one night, we enriched the curriculum through important cooperation with foreign and Greek universities. I wonder why you didn't say anything specific, apart from what we have accomplished? Apparently why you've decided to give the loot to private and naval training. This is your secret agenda. As for the coastline, we remind you that we leave you with an upgraded coastline, with an increased budget for barren lines, digital tools for the reconstruction of the network in cooperation with the National Technical University and a study on the renewal of the fleet in cooperation with the Naval Chamber of Commerce, using European and private funds. We also heard the Prime Minister talk about investing in Drapetsona fertilizers. Let someone tell him that we were renegotiating the PPA with which the extent returned to the local society, because the Samara government had granted it to 'COSCO'. That's the truth. We also heard that sustainability studies will be carried out for the ten regional ports. However, the TIAD, in cooperation with our government, has begun the assessment of ports in order to develop them in the internationally accepted model of concessions. Therefore, these studies are ongoing. Did the Minister mean he would ask to change the recovery plan with the full sale of the ports? There, however, when we really heard empty words that have emerged, they were in the field of island policies. It's an area that didn't find a position in fifty a portfolio of the new one - flexible you don't call it government. Our government has focused on islands and has established development policies for islands. You spoke of a financial framework for supporting infrastructure on the islands. Do you forget that for the first time we brought the special development aid for the islands of EUR 101 million for infrastructure projects on the islands? We have heard the announcements of energy autonomy on the islands. However, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, history has shown that New Democracy and autonomy on the islands have never met. Because we were the ones who ended the anachronistic aquifer status, ensuring water autonomy on the islands by installing desalination. On the subject of transport equivalents, I have to say that you have not understood anything from the logic and targeting of the measure. That is why it is no longer a question that both the New Democracy and the new secretary of the island policy from its position as regional ruler fought it rabies. You described it as a subsidy policy and suggested that it was an obstacle to healthy entrepreneurship. But if you ask the island companies you will see that they are allies to growth and to combat the competitive disadvantage for which you have not done anything for so many years. We have also heard from the Minister for the 200m euros guaranteed by the previous New Democracy government for the equipment of the Port House. I noticed, however, that there was no such reference in the written speech on the Ministry's site, and it did well. Because you had assured nothing but hope. We have proceeded with competitions of more than EUR 200 million for the renewal of the Port House equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, we, the children of shipping and island policy, went with two main lines: fair growth and the defence of the public interest. We've proved we've achieved our goals. Now, from the position of Officer Opposition, we won't let anyone degrade the security net we laid for our navals. We will not leave our islands to the mercy of the nonexistent politicians. We won't close our eyes to selling the harbors. We will be here on grounds of our obligation to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u113	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u114	I don't want to be tempted. Mr. Santorinier, will you request back to the seventeen airports where you sold the other ports? The fact that you put all the public property in the superstition? Well, leave those tricks. And what are you going to do, put the mass movement - which you are no longer inexistent - to fight and that you have slept with your politics for so many years? Anyway, I don't want to go on, but at least a little bit needs to be done. All these days have the proclamations from the government and many New Democracy Members of Parliament over a new reality, 'the period of crisis closed','return to normality', 'we came out of the memoranda' - this is where SYRIZA gets us - 'we're free to determine our house', 'we're on the highway of sustainable development' or 'fair', as SYRIZA said - capitalist is, however, one - and sometimes we ask ourselves: We live in a magic world? So, do we have a new beginning, a "page switch" as it is called, or do we have a change in the government power of another party, which will continue, like the previous ones, to take the doll from where they stopped? It will continue with anti-grassroots policy, and indeed with greater intensity, because now capital is demanding discipline, so that it can increase its profits. We have a page change, but in the same book that is Gospel for all of you, except for the JV, as parties I mean. And the Gospel writes 'capitalism', 'European Union','memorandum', 'barbarbarity'. It's what you've all sworn to and served. Do we have a new reality? The time of crisis is closed and we're going to regularity? Really, who are you working for, who are you kidding? So you're going to pay back the wages that the workers had? Are you going to pay back the pensions that the workers had? Will you increase social funds? No, talk about it! And you're talking about normality. What's the regularity and exit from the memoirs so you don't fool people? Seven hundred fifty Memorandum Laws. Tell us who you're going to abolish? Those who were abolished and SYRIZA. New ones have brought new ones and new ones you will bring, even tougher ones and of course you will have the consent of others. So what is normal is what you have all built together because you have all voted for the memorandum and the first and the second and the third. It is this institutional framework that breaks down, breaks down working class, people's strata, self-employed, youth, women of the populace. It crushed them and crushed them for two reasons: One to pay for this crisis, not those who were afraid and treasured, and the other to ensure the recovery of profits from the big business groups, as we say. And here, what we've seen before, and now, it's a pageant, who's gonna make the country more friendly to entrepreneurship. Called between New Democracy, SYRIZA, Change Movement. But aren't you all the others with healthy entrepreneurship? And the New Democracy has now stung SYRIZA's terminology: 'Health entrepreneurship'. Bovine spongiform encephalopathy in employers' organizations, the European Union, monopolies, wealthy ones. We're free, you're free to do our home, like you say? And what do all the European Union's controls want here every three and a little? What do the quarters want? What do European semesters want? Does the commitments for 2060 apply or not? The state keeps going. That's a classic position we've heard of. You denounced the supermarket as a salesman. And we ask, will you abolish it? No, because the state keeps going. Where you denounced the Prespes - we for other reasons - are now saying it's not happening, the state keeps going. So we have a change of doggy and we have the recommendations of the Commission, which are very simply translated 'brains on the right and step of geese'. Whatever you've signed and what you've agreed to, you'll apply everything. And that's what you're all responsible for. And no one can leave or forget that the first, second, third memorandum, which included all three, was voted on together by all those who were at least here in the House. This scenery has two sides. And let us stop the various lines called by all governments until now that we are government of all Greeks. Are you really all Greeks? Paradise for businessmen, hell for workers. It has a classic and ideological mark, as the SYRIZA government had before, despite the "lefty" she said, because she actually served this policy. Hell for workers, poverty, anxiety, misery, running from morning to night, leaving abroad and, on the other hand, are the zapluts, uneven riches that gather in a few hands. Consequently, it is neither yours nor the New Democracy policy nor the previous one. It is a hard class policy towards those who produce wealth, provocative in supporting the interests of capital - and I will say a few things - that is, those who steal the sweat and the blood of workers. And you know, wealth is not produced by the intelligence of capitalists. It is produced by the exploitation of workers, by unpaid work, which may have different forms today, but it remains the same literally. They are the ones you serve. Who is it against this policy? Only the JRC. And we don't say it like that to play. We are a people's opposition, and that is what we promised the people and the elections. We have been struggling constantly for all these years. And when you were telling us graphics, when we said that humanity would come back, stable at the side of the anti-grassroots workers, we didn't "chew", we didn't submit anywhere. In and out of this House, what we can say is that we will do everything we can to organize the struggles of the people, improve their position for workers to finally open up the path of real overthrow, the path of socialism that is necessary, timely and realistic, because it expresses the interests of the overwhelming majority of the people. The Government of New Democracy, like the previous ones - I am not saying any names why you will be asking for the floor - serves the well-known tale of sustainable development or fairness - well you will say so soon, by SYRIZA, you copy well, just - and it says - and breaks the world - which says that the people now have to be patient, continue their sacrifices in the middle of the year, that is, in the Monday Presence, that is, when the profits are increased, when the investments of business groups are raised, we are all going to live better. Myth! First of all, for serious analysts, sustainable development and capitalism there is no one. The history of capitalism is linked - and that does not change - with crises large and very large. And that doesn't change today. There are already provisions - from pods, not from us - that we will enter a new crisis cycle. Therefore, this 'viable' is non-existent. It'll be viable for the capitalists. Second, fair growth? But is that possible? Capitalist growth and fairness? So we'll have a lot of profits and good wages. As you say, "and many investments and well-paid wages." You can't do that. They're not compromised. Because in order for there to be great profits, workers must be found and over-exploited. It's utopia. And one minister said that it has been established to the Greek people that growth and jobs are created only by the private sector and healthy entrepreneurship. First you have to say a very big thank you, you who are a genuine party of capitalism, of the bourgeoisie - others joined quickly - because that is what they were saying. Because they're the ones who made the unfinished [[At this point the Member's closing time bell will be ringing at a warning.]] I will take all my time, Mr President. So thank them very much, as a well-known journalist wrote, "Why this Left managed to turn the left-handed pendulum", that is, some conquests that the workers had, "to bring it to the centre and to the right". These people have said that growth can only be done by healthy entrepreneurship. That's what you say. But how does this growth come into the world? Firstly, brave and provocative funding, stimulus of billions. Where's the truth? From taxation, from big capital? Oh, no! From the pocket, sweat, and the worker's blood. You are collecting the state budget, where over 60% of GDP is involved with 5% and 95% of the people, and you are motivating, literally free and exorbitant sums - that has been done before - to entrepreneurs. Secondly, provocative tax exemptions that existed, continued and continue. What's happened these years? SYRIZA comes in and says 'I reduce the taxation of distributed profits' - and without even conditions - 'from 15% to 10%' and now the New Democracy in 5%. I really - in the world I address - how do you accept that people who are zaplus to pay 5% tax, too, 22%? How does he accept and must the worker accept to pay 22% and the industrialist with his profits pay 5%? This is how this growth is being made, a fall from 28% to 20%. And now New Democracy comes and says I'll take it to 9%. We're not in a hurry. You may say at 9%, but if you set five conditions that won't be met, like a house in the village or I don't know anything else, you'll be excluded It's the well-known tactic that followed and the previous ones. Thirdly, a reduction in social costs. Have social expenditure been reduced or not all these years? They're down. Why were they reduced? To save money again for strengthening business groups and debt payments that were not created by wages and pensions that were very low, but unreasonable funding, naval spending, the Olympic Games. Reduction of social costs to save money and open the road to private investment. A bank in 2010 was sending us its report and made recommendations to entrepreneurs to invest in the health sector that will be the most profitable. You're opening the way. I want people to know what's going on with this infamous private sector. You can't go to the public because there's deficiencies. You're burning up. You're going to the private. You pay - i.e. the worker - 15% of your pocket. The rest of who's paying for it? The insurance fund. That's the worker again. This is how the profits of large monopolistic groups come out. You say they bring growth. Profits bring in. Third. Generalised privatizations. SYRIZA did a championship. He also put the whole state in Greece. Now you're ready. What can you say now? Do you have anything to say about privatization? "We did bad things, too?" Let it go. It's not going through. It's over. You did it very quickly. But is that possible? All the airports, the ports, you took everything off to the hammer. Privatizations, that is, offering the sweat of the people. We need to make something clear. They say that the state cannot make investments and does not bring growth. Depending on the phase of the development of capitalism. When, for example, POWER left and when there was a need for electricity in the country to meet the needs of the industry, and so on, what happened exactly? PPC took place with the sweat and blood of the Greek people. It was then state-run, but it still worked for monopolies. When he brings the profits, what do you do? And you put it in the Constitution, so I wouldn't say anything. It keeps the infrastructure the state, the maintenance, etc., which is accurate and gives the trade to private individuals. Thank you very much. So the profits are served by the sweat of the people who made them. That's how it works. Either by state or by other businesses not to tell OTE and others. Fourthly, undoing the workers. Full-time employment, two-month, three-hour, two-hour, four-hour, redundancies, blackmail. Has any Minister of Labour gone to any government surprises in a large hotel? Have you been to the "LARCO" that you say is also privileged? Sit in one day so you can't get up a week of how the environment is. Have you gone to other places to see exactly what's going on, what's unpaid? And since you're talking about security, seven and a half thousand were the accidents last year. A dead man every five days. Literally murdered. He's going for a bite, and he's coming back dead. For this security, will you ever check anything, or will the APRC with two hundred ten employees control two hundred thousand operations? You're on top of it. Fifth, anti-engineering arsenal. How can you liberals and the rest of you make 99% of the strikes illegal and abusive? What's going on? That's the anti-gauge arsenal. Also, redundancies for trade union activity. He was fired from the labour centre of Lavrio the other day at the Vlacho Sisters' Operation - not names, but we will say so - for trade union activity. That's why he was fired. And they're on strike, and they're threatened. Matt, you're at the employer's service. Not once but twice. The Greek people pay for them and they went and guarded the steelworks. They go outside when they have strikes. So is the police. Sixth, abolishing collective bargaining. Brutsi Law, which became Brutsi - Ahchioglu. Do you remember what you were saying, Mr. Chakalote, about this law? That the papers are set up, that it benefits employers, that the conditions it sets are growth, competitiveness? That is what BSE demands. You did it. That is the abolition of collective bargaining. Strike out the right to strike with the law brought by SYRIZA that requires more than 50% of all employees to strike. Why did you bring him? Was that a Memorandum obligation? Oh, no. Why didn't you remove him when we had an amendment? Because BSE brought you. That was a demand for BSE. Did Mr. Brutsis actually come by yesterday, in a hate, in a way unbelievable - enemies are workers? Aren't they producing wealth? - to speak of a new trade union law, which will try - because it is not easy to pass - to give a final blow to the remaining trade union rights on the pretext of defending what workers call - and they are right - the trade union mafia, which has sat on the workers' neck. People who are shareholders in business and make employees. Business executives who take the workers in line to vote for what the entrepreneurs want. People who have made frauds and scams all over Greece. They are supported by Mr. Brutsi. Why? Because they supported all the barbaric policy followed in previous years, both in PASOK and in its own law, which reduced the minimum wage by 22%. And he's talking about clearance. Who says that to? We'll do, he says, an electronic record. Why? He doesn't know them? He doesn't know Kitsuki? After Mr. Mitsotakis deleted him from New Democracy, he was in charge of an attack on the MPs and headed the AACC. Can I tell you more names? They don't know the other guy that he's a shareholder in big business? They don't know the supermarket executives and others that are pushing the workers and having them from the neck? They make workers choose the people of the employer, i.e. the managers. Now the pain caught him, as did SYRIZA, with 51% voting electronically for the strike all the workers. Well done. That will mean democracy and participation. At home, on the couch. He's the employer over the head. He voted against the strike. Not a general assembly, to hear the argument, to exchange views, to have conflicts positive for the workers. Not like that. You're saying an electronic vote. All of this has a badge. The law is the law of the employer. I would suggest to you, too, Mr. Brutsi, that he change the title of the Ministry and from the Ministry of Labour to call it the Ministry of Labour. You're talking about democracy when you made the biggest legal chill with the PSI. You took 10 billion in one night and gave it to the banks. You asked the workers? It was their money, wasn't it? And he's coming now with a heart to break what's left standing. It won't pass. We're telling you. It's gonna be a war. Literally. If you think the workers will be subjected so easily you make a big mistake. So this is sustainable and fair growth called capitalist barbarism. She defends all of you, serves her with different phrases, etc. Yanis Varoufakis is now coming to tell us about human capitalism. Utopia was once good, in 1800, in 1600. But that can't be. And because the hopes that you cultivate and this climate will be quickly disproved in the Greek people comes the doctrine of law and order, in the name of the security of citizens. We don't underestimate. On the contrary. We say crime is intertwined with the system. But regardless of that, we say that the sole purpose of the Greek Police must be to strike the crime and not the workers' struggles. And as long as they go to the workers' struggles as they grow up and strengthen crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Palphie, you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u116	I'll be done. Security. What's safe truth? Just crime? Isn't it security to have a decent salary? Isn't it about having a job? Isn't it not that you're in danger of being killed because there are no security measures? Isn't it health, education, culture? Insecurity and profit security. I'm hanging up. Twelve minutes plus six minutes and three minutes, twenty minutes. That's how time goes. Many have dreamed of the abolition of the bourgeois struggle. You have all adopted the logic of the social partners. That is, a partner, both the worker and the industrialist. For example, 600 euros the worker, 600,000,000 euros the industrialist. Partner and the sailor and the shipowner. billions the shipowner, 7,000 in 24 hours' work, thirteen and fourteen months the sailor. Partner. Vessel tax greater than shipowners' taxation. There aren't any of these. Society's driving force is class struggle. It's not as long as there are classes. We will do everything we can to strengthen this struggle until the producers of wealth get what they deserve, the wealth they produce. As for foreign policy, one comment. When Mr. Dendias was talking, I thought I was listening to Mr. Katrugalo. Really, if I didn't see it, that's what I'd think. Exactly the same! We are not going to give a consensus, nor can we have a common foreign policy. We do not submit or bind to the American tank that SYRIZA took to heights, put it in the washing machine to get it clean. We will continue with the peoples, against imperialist barbarism, against wars, for another society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u117	Mr Stylus has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by wishing everyone health and strength to the difficult work that we have before us. Ladies and gentlemen, on 7 July we did not just have a political change in the history of the country, we did not have another change of power in the context of the new two-partyism. We had a clear political mandate from the citizens to change for example governance, a mandate to finally pass from the decade of shrinking and limiting incomes in the decade of creation and recovery, a mandate to permanently leave the toxicity of the previous four years behind, to permanently close the wounds of the crisis, division, extreme polarization, populism, lying and deceptive ones. This mandate was given by the Greek people to the New Democracy and not by accident. Governance was given itself to the New Democracy because, despite the mistakes of the past, it was dealt with during the crisis with a sense of historical responsibility and national duty. Ladies and gentlemen, as Opposition New Democracy in 2015-2019 addressed reliably, spoke clearly and in detail about Greece on the next day, Greece the consistency between speeches and projects, which looks at the substance and not the impressions, Greece of production, prosperity, the creation of wealth and prosperity, Greece of recovery, growth, work and security, another Greece which has nothing to do with Greece of the low expectations, the minor effort, over-taxation, automation and mizerabilism, which has nothing to do with Greece of poverty and benefits. The New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis spoke of Greece's reforms, entrepreneurship and opportunities for all, and this choice was rewarded by the citizens. It is no accident, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy is the only power party that has stood up in the years of the crisis. Today it is the only firmness of our political system. It is a great deal, with deep roots in our society and our people. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people on 7 July proved to be permanent and with unprecedented maturity we were on the way to a united front by electing a government that would have a four-year term. He sent a clear message both inside and abroad, to investors, partners, lenders, to all. It gave the new government time to work, legislate, implement its initiatives and assess its results at the end of the four-year period. It is our duty to honour the people's mandate, to restore the authority of democracy and the institutions that will serve the citizens and not the politicians. To create a framework for growth with fewer taxes, with many investments for many new and good jobs, a development that will bring about better wages and higher pensions. To deal with chronic diseases in the economy, in the insurance. Free the country from the blockages of stateism and give citizens opportunities to produce wealth and prosperity. To create a modern and efficient state that will provide citizens with national defence, security, decent health, modern education, modern infrastructure. To become an international education and research centre, reverse the current of Brain drain. To invest in the agri-food sector, primary production and processing by strengthening quality, extroversion and exports. I cannot, ladies and gentlemen, make a reference to President Kyriakos Mitsotakis when he election from Arta, my special homeland, announced the agricultural programme of the New Democracy. It was a symbolic move for the Greek region, for the Greek territory. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To work, ladies and gentlemen, with transparency, with accountability and measurable efficiency for political gaining its lost credibility. First and foremost, today's debate reveals the identification of the election announcements with the Programmatic Declarations of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you of this: despite our different political achievements, the different ideologies, the same society, we are all accounting for the same purpose for progress, for a better future for the new generation, for the welfare of our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The country needs a new social contract, a new effort with the responsibility and participation of all. This effort cannot be based on the values of truth, consensus, pragmatism and goodwill. The Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is the hope of the ordinary man for a better life. That is what we will do, because we can do better and we deserve better. I am voting in favour of the government's Programmatic Declarations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u119	Mrs Marilissa Xenonakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to congratulate everyone and all for your election and wish a fruitful and creative parliamentary term. Following the elections, the Government of New Democracy received a country liberated by the blockages of the memoranda and the committee, with the rule of law, having gradually regained sovereignty and the possibility of re-policy. A country of EUR 37 billion in the funds, which ensures independence and security in the conduct of economic and social policy. A country which finally managed to re-establish industrial relations and collective bargaining and to cancel the second memorandum in practice. A country that has established its strength and place in a difficult and changing geopolitical framework. The Prime Minister's Programmatic Statements, despite the modesty of speech, clearly lacked a neoliberal mark, as did those which did not state or certain deliberate ambiguities, which have not been clarified despite the statements made by the ministers on the relevant issues. These ambiguities exist, particularly social issues and in relation to the insurance system. And of course, in addition to ambiguity, we have a very negative sign of writing since the first days of the New Democracy governance in terms of the functioning of the state and public administration, which take us back to old-fashioned control cultures of the state and public services. I would like to make a statement and ask three questions. The determination concerns the public administration. I believe that what we have lived for the first 15 days is firstly an attempt to degrade and weaken the public administration strategy that our country must have as a modern European state, especially in this period after the memoranda. We've actually seen the fragmentation of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. The criticism is not about reunification with the Ministry of the Interior. She used to exist before. Criticism is about fragmenting responsibilities, without plan, without evaluation and, above all, the loss of the strategic executive character that was all about the functioning of the public administration. Your choice reflects your view of the public, and that is why I referred to your neoliberal approach. I am also referring to the Presidential Decree you have brought, which abolishes general secretariats in an arbitrary manner, without a study, and in previous years very serious efforts have been made in digital organiza tions, in position profiles, in the upgrading and reconstruction of a modern public sector, and much more in the abolition of critical control mechanisms. I have heard, Mr Minister of Justice, that you have spoken in a serious and modest manner in an overall department for controls and transparency. But here we are dealing with different services. When the autonomy of the APRC is abolished, this has a direct impact on the labour market, as is the case when the AIFM is abolished or when environmental auditors and many other examples are abolished. I think you should give concrete answers to all this. I should like to refer to the three questions: first, the Prime Minister said that the establishment of an official secretary would be established. You put political persons in these new General Secretariats of the Ministries. The question is what responsibilities it will have. You are actually coming to abolish an institutional reform from 2016 onwards, through the ADP, where hundreds of interested candidates are currently in a final crisis stage. So you are intervening without evaluation in an ongoing process involving officials from the public and private sectors, and even without taking into account the fact that such an act will have a natural and legal impact, as you are intervening with an independent authority and an ongoing procedure. Even more so, you do not specify whether this secretary of staff will work alongside the political secretaries, so the account of fewer posters you have been accusing for so many years is being broken down. The second crucial question concerns recruitment. The Prime Minister did not clearly say what would happen. Will you apply the rule ‘1 to 1’ to recruitment? You said - and I am glad that we will continue to plan recruitment, what we have introduced a few months ago. You have referred to fragments - and I am glad that you will continue the recruitment of the four thousand five hundred teachers for special education in both thousands of four hundred for health. Good! But these are fragmentary statements. What are you going to do with the rest of 2019, approved by the ‘1 to 1’ rule, concerning welfare, universities, migration, engineers, JEPs and environmental protection executives? What about all these recruitments? You must give an answer and it must be given today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, please, and I'll close. You must also clearly say what will happen to public contractors. There's a huge concern. Election you had spoken of redundancies. I shall now refer to the third question, which is just as critical and linked to everything else. How will you cover on the basis of the declarations you made on tax evasion that will start immediately from 2019, the budgetary gap, which is estimated at at least EUR 1.8 billion? There is a clear question of cost reductions. Where will they become, Prime Ministers? The Prime Minister must give a clear answer. It will be through drastic reduction, as it seems - and that is why there is ambiguity - of social benefits? Will it be through the "fresh" of recruitments, the dismissals of contractors and the monumental return of "1 to 5"? Will it be through the reduction in the final and - and possibly - the abolition of tax? It is therefore the duty of the Prime Minister at the National Representation to give clear answers to all these three issues. The Greek people gave SYRIZA a strong percentage to be a strong institutional and programming opposition to the House, positive and creative, but at the same time also a fight against civilisation, in order to defend wherever necessary in the workplaces and local communities the public interest, labour rights, democratic and social rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u121	We're continuing with Mr. Tagaras from New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, until my colleague comes to Stepma, I have the honour to announce to you Protocol No 11789/6717 of 22 July 2019 the decision of the President of Parliament on the establishment and establishment of the Special Standing Committee on Institutions and Transparency. I also have the honour to announce to you Protocol No 11791/6719 of 22 July 2019 of the President of Parliament on the establishment and establishment of the Parliament's Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Likewise, I have the honour to announce Protocol No 11792/6720 of 22 July 2019 of the President of the Parliament on the establishment and establishment of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The relevant decisions have been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u122	Here, Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the government's Programmatic Declarations, a new era begins, a time of uplifting and creation. We don't have the right to delay, because we just can't wait, because nobody can wait. It is the responsibility of all of us to have creative understanding and cooperation, without extremism, populism and extremism. We do not have the luxury of talking about the past, remaining in the past. It's time for a great creative leap in the future. The relief of society, security, stability and the prospect that gives meaning to each other's lives is the bet that we all have to win together for all Greek women, for all Greeks. The sterile controversy doesn't help. It is our duty quickly to make decisions, which give solutions to unfinished issues of the past and create frameworks and rules for balanced and dynamic development. We cannot in the name of protection forbid everything. We need to find the balance between growth that creates jobs and the protection of our environment and our culture. That is why we are setting up frameworks and rules for development, while at the same time setting up control mechanisms for compliance with the rules. For example, in the investment of the Greek for thirty-seven acres of forest that existed sixty years ago, we cannot remove the possibility of creating one of the largest metropolitan parks of two thousand acres, depriving seventy thousand jobs in a society that has exceeded its limits. We are creating a single digital map in a database for all the geographical data, for all the public administration and citizens, with all the institutional lines, with all the information necessary for the authorisation of all types of investment. The goal is to be that anyone with the press of a button be able to get complete and institutionally secure information about what is allowed, what is forbidden, under which terms and conditions. They will include conditions of construction, land use, town plans, rhetoric and building lines, forests and forest land, protection areas, cayalou, beach and port zones, watercourses, archaeological sites and all relevant information with precise geographical limits. Our aim is to make it easier and at less cost to try. We're speeding up lake-slapping investments. We simplify the institutional framework, reduce administrative burden, procedures and bureaucracy, to anyone who wants to open a shop, build, create an innovative business, build a hotel or industry. We are creating a central licensing system by unifying scattered procedures by resolving legislative conflicts. We are going forward with a dynamic reduction in the tax and insurance burdens so that the state does not make the effort and reward of those who work to free the creative forces of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are using technologies as tools in the digital age not to make red tape electronic, but to simplify and speed up procedures for the benefit of the citizen. As far as the primary sector is concerned, I would point out the need for a change in the institutional framework of the ELGA to make the farmer feel worth paying for the insurance of his production and for the state to cover his lost income. Ladies and gentlemen, after a disaster that lasted a long time and has cost us a great deal, it is our responsibility and our obligation to qualitatively upgrade the level of understanding and cooperation, contributing creatively for the next day, to form conditions so that anyone who wants to stand out and creates a right to be allowed to do so. The aim, ladies and gentlemen, is not simply to gain the impressions, but through our work to win society, to give it breath and perspective by giving each citizen a meaning and value. The message for this was given by our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. With these remarks I am voting in favour of the Programmatic Declarations and I am voting for a vote of confidence in the government, and I wish all my fellow Members a good and creative parliamentary term at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u124	Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish everyone a good and fertile parliamentary term. In the elections of 7 July 2019, the Greek people gave a clear and strong mandate to the New Democracy and Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to work and build a strong Greece, Greece of regularity, Greece of stability, Greece of the rule of law, Greece of growth, Greece of prosperity. Our task is to bring our country back to the place it deserves so that it recovers its international authority and consolidates it in the geopolitical environment as a credible and powerful force that promotes security and cooperation in the wider region. After four and a half years of SYRIZA and SYRIZA governance - ANEL the bet on returning to normality is not small, it is great. The faith, however, is being won by the strong political will and a genuine, deeply democratic patriotism that I can assure you that it characterises both the Government and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. Having fully realised this critical national mission, I am taking responsibility for the political leadership of the country's Armed Forces entrusted to me by the Prime Minister of the country. The honour is extremely great and I assure the House of the Greek Parliament that both I and the Deputy Minister Alkiviadis Stefanis, who is present, are fully aware of the sacred debt that we are undertaking at this time, so that the Armed Forces of the country do their job in full in order for each Greek and every Greek to feel safe. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is in a dynamic political and geo-economic environment, the one of the south-eastern Europe and the eastern Mediterranean in which almost all the modern security challenges are encountered. In this complex and fluid environment, the wider security challenges encountered both globally and at regional level, potentially affecting our country as well, are also added. Unintentional and voluntary movements of large-scale populations, illegal immigration, terrorist activities and the exacerbation of extreme religious fundamentalism, illegal movements of all kinds, but especially illegal movements of people, unresolved so far but in any case extremely diverse Middle East, the strong competition for the exploitation of wealthy sources, particularly hydrocarbons, climate change that has recently begun to experience with vigour and our country, organised and internationalised crime, cyber threats are only some of the modern challenges that require our full vigilance, since they can adversely affect the security of our country. And since I am talking about challenges I inevitably come in our relationship with neighbour Turkey and developments in the south-eastern Mediterranean. It goes without saying, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot but will not tolerate violations which directly challenge territorial integrity, our sovereign rights and the responsibilities arising from international conventions and decisions by international organisations. The Ministry of National Defence closely monitors Turkey's actions and behaviour in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, a behaviour that seriously concerns us, as it also concerns the countries of the European Union, but also other countries that monitor Turkey's illegal and abusive actions within the exclusive Economic Zone of the Republic of Cyprus, namely a Member State of the European Union. We, Greece, stand with absolute commitment on the part of Cyprus, seek peace and good neighbourly relations with a view to respecting national sovereign rights and international law. We don't challenge it, but we don't like it and we don't like it. We are not restless, but we are vigilant. Our temper and orientation for peaceful resolution of disputes between states must not be seen as weakness. We believe that the creation and escalation of tensions is not in the interests of either of the two countries, nor, of course, is it helping to promote security and cooperation in an already quite agitated area. We would obviously like our relationship with Turkey to enter a new, another phase in which stability in our region is ensured, but that does not depend on us alone. As the Ministry of Defence we will seek to maintain a channel of communication with Turkey, notably by implementing activities in the context of the implementation of confidence-building measures. We really hope that Turkey will also seek to do so. We expect practical evidence of its intentions, but I am very afraid that so far we do not have them. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of National Defence structures its political priorities on five main axes which serve the strategic choice of Prime Minister and Government for security in the country. Axle number one: Ensuring defensibility of defensive equipment. Particular attention will be paid to its technological leadership and to the use of modern information systems and administrative systems. Our aim is to implement targeted armaments programmes already identified by the leadership of the Armed Forces and evolve on the basis of short-, medium- and long-term priorities. This overall plan will first ensure that the country's Armed Forces are maintained and progressively strengthened and structured at two levels. The first level is about upgrading and supporting basic weapons systems in the Army, Navy and Air Force, according to the needs, design and priorities that we have set together with the military leadership. The second level concerns the acquisition of weapon systems that will upgrade the operational capacity and operational readiness of all three arms of the Armed Forces. This is where we are dealing with a level more specific and more direct intervention. Axis two: Reorganisation of the structure of the Armed Forces. The aim is to increase the availability of the spiritual potential by strengthening the necessary military personnel, as well as the establishment of an objective, stable career development framework and evaluation system, in order to ensure a worthwhile hierarchical development of executives. Third axis: Modernisation of the existing legislative framework. The main intervention will be the revision of the Procurement Act to the Armed Forces - all the legislative framework - to ensure, on the one hand, all the necessary transparency, without pseudo-transparency impressions and the necessary flexibility on the other in the system of supplies, across the range of the Armed Forces. Axis 4: Strengthening the domestic defence industry as vital for security of supply and the maintenance of operational capabilities of the Armed Forces. This assistance will be provided through the encouragement of defence industry partnerships with the private sector, support for defence research and technology in cooperation with the national universities and research institutes. It is a axis, I would say, of key, strategic importance and perspective for the country. Fifth axis: upgrading of military training. I am referring both to actions to exploit military service to obtain decisive qualifications, even to the entry into the labour market by soldiers and to the development of critical skills for this purpose, and to the strengthening of cooperation between senior military training institutions and schools with the IITs, namely the universities of the country, and to the exploitation of cumulative scientific knowledge and experience of thinking tanks, as well as with corresponding schools abroad, in international cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, the policies of the Ministry of Defence will be at full cost and with the wider strategic government choices, as they have been codified on the individual points put before the Prime Minister. The Ministry supports and seeks synergies and coordinated initiatives with other ministries as part of the holistic approach to government work as a whole. For example, as regards the strategic choice of aid to Greece in a node that changes, for example, the Ministry aims to stimulate and strengthen defence diplomacy as a basic tool for soft power, to strengthen, of course, the role of the country's overall diplomacy. Already, officials from the Armed Forces record a strong presence at international organisations and bilateral and multilateral partnerships, particularly on the basis of the strategic cooperation relationship with Cyprus, Israel and Egypt, as well as other states in the wider region of the Balkans and the south-eastern Mediterranean. This scheme continues and is being strengthened. As regards the strategic choice of quality public health for all Greeks, the Ministry of National Defence will contribute to public health - already does - by optimising the services of military hospitals and by making military doctors available to social actions. A military doctor in the Acropolis was placed on the first day of taking up our duties. Emphasis will also be placed on the provision of health services in remote and remote areas, as well as on the immediate response to health crisis management. Yesterday, just once again, a military helicopter carried, that is, a patient from a remote island area to the center. Furthermore, with regard to the strategic choice of the value of the real estate, we aim to make best use of the assets of the Ministry of Defence by strengthening and simplifying the role of the National Defence Fund through the rational management of its assets. The aim is to increase the resources for the country's defence. In the same philosophy, the optimisation of the operation of the Armed Forces Assurance Agency is part of the same philosophy, so that the Ministry of Defence is, among other things, a development arm of the national effort. Finally, with regard to the strategic choice of environmental protection - adaptation to climate change and sustainable development, we aim to upgrade environmental policy through the emphasis on energy upgrading and autonomy of the Armed Forces infrastructure, rehabilitation of polluting forms of energy and the adoption of best practices in waste management. After all, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the Mission of the Armed Forces is not confined to its operational work alone. With a high sense of responsibility and sensitivity, however, the Armed Forces offer a multifaceted work toward society, based on links with the wider social groups. They take a large number of actions to help the rest of the state bodies, but also to link more closely to the society as a whole. As a government, we intend to substantially strengthen actions of direct cooperation with Civil Protection for its upgraded role, such as research and rescue, aerospace, fire and fire protection, the treatment of natural disasters at national level, in cooperation with the relevant ministries. Days ago, again in the early hours of taking up our duties, new rhythms and new efficiencies appeared when dealing with the theory in Halkidiki. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Armed Forces are next to society because their inspiring potential comes through society. So by making a reference to this inspiring potential, I would like to stress that we are very proud of it. Men and women of the Armed Forces operate with commitment, dignity, with an absolute sense of duty, professionally. The quality of our staff, after all, ensures this very deterrent power of the Armed Forces, and that is why it is our duty to stand next to the staff. To this end, we are planning a series of measures of a social nature to deal with issues relating to the daily lives of officials, but also with their families, living conditions and improving their standard of living, in a safe, modern and special, as well as in a working environment. At the same time, we owe special mention and attention to retired, stationary and ethnic guards. They are Greek patriots who serve or continue to serve with commitment and sense of responsibility the Armed Forces and Greece through them. This overall excellent attitude that the Armed Forces staff have shown, despite recent budgetary difficulties, is recognized, praised, and we are going to prove this respect for the personnel of the Armed Forces in the implementation of our programme. Finally, our top priority, in terms of what I have said, is transparency and accountability in the management of public money available to upgrade and modernise the Armed Forces. We want every Greek citizen to know where every euro is spent in the area of defence and this expenditure, wherever and whenever it is done, will be done with full respect for the lack of the Greek taxpayer. In conclusion, we aim to modern, powerful and remarkable Armed Forces with high deterrent power. We are taking a dynamic approach to the present so that we can shape the future in a better way, not as a pig, but as the creators of developments. The effort has always been continuous and intensive, just now it is becoming more intensive. Ladies and gentlemen, as it happens in every country that respects itself, but also faces modern security challenges, we have, as the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, the crucial, patriotic duty to care for a sword. The sword of Greece is its Armed Forces, it is "the cut of the sword or the terrible". And if in a time of peace this sword is in the dock, in troubled times, when the hand comes to the handle, then the sword must be sharp, sharp and shiny. I hope - I really hope - that the hand remains on the handle and the sword on the dock. We're not warlike. But we must not be unreserved. That is why I look like the rest of the ministry's political and military leadership, so that the sword of Greece, this sword, is in the situation that I described earlier. This is our job, this is our duty, to make every effort, with every pet of our forces, at all costs, to keep the cutting of the sword terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, may I have the floor for a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u127	Yes, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u128	Thank you. Minister, let me ask you a question. You said too much. I retained your report - it was populist - on confidence-building measures and you said that "in their evolution will..." etc. In a pre-election period, before the European elections, we were intensified on the issue of our relations with Turkey on confidence-building measures and resignation of a critical representative of the Greek delegation following the first meeting with the Turkish delegation in Athens. Why was this crisis? There was this crisis, because Turkey instead of confidence-building measures posed the key issues that divide the two countries into the ninth. I would like a word more, because your reference was like to continue in the context of a normality. All parties then pointed out that there is a problem there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u129	The Minister has the floor to give a brief answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u130	Of course I will be brief, Mr President. What I wanted to make clear, Mr President, Mr Loverdos, is that maintaining dialogue on confidence-building measures between the two countries is simply maintaining yet another low tension - I would say - a communication channel between the two countries. This is our announcement in the context of the reading of the Government's Programming Declarations that we intend good faith to keep it open, because it is good even in times of tension that these communication channels are kept open, without this implying any discomfort or irresponsibility or doubt of course all the sovereign rights that the country has. That's all for now. In the future and depending on the neighbour's behaviour, we will see whether and to what extent we need to keep, tighten up, open, close these channels. As a general line, however, I think that in any case such a communication channel should, in the interests of both countries, remain open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u131	All right, thanks to the Minister. Now give the floor to Mr. Apostolos Pana of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before my first position as a new Member, for the first time in the Greek Parliament, to thank my fellow citizens in Halkidiki who have honoured me with their vote and sent me here as their representative. I would like to tell them that I feel fully and deeply responsible and I will try with all my powers to meet their expectations. I would like to begin by saying two things about Halkidiki, which has recently been hit by the great naturality and even today it is trying to cope with a difficult daily life. In particular, there were dramatic disasters and incalculable damages which have suffered many agricultural crops which irreparably affect the agricultural economy of Halkidiki. I therefore call for all the necessary steps to be taken to ensure that there is immediate compensation and recovery for the affected. We as a Change Movement have tabled a specific package of proposals for the relief of the affected. We have been in these areas and we will follow the matter closely. Ladies and gentlemen, with the elections of 7 July the Greek people changed the country's political map and in a strong polarisation it gave the Change Movement 8.1%, which for us is translated into the fact that it gave us a mandate and a role for a responsible and constructive opposition, and that is what we will do. In this context, as the Head of the Rural Change Movement, I will develop our positions and proposals for the primary sector, as we have processed them with the agrifood production operators and are included in the "Greece". Every valid study of the policies that will take the country out of the crisis concludes that agricultural production has to play a catalytic role. Primary production, i.e. the agri-food sector, occurs in a pillar of direct development. I would like to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that, for us, after what we have heard from the ministers responsible for the primary sector in the past days, the only criterion for parliamentary scrutiny will be efficiency and the promotion of solutions for the good of the rural world and the country's country's country's countryside. That is why we will be severely judged, but programmatically, and I am specific. The primary sector is a crucial area for the overall development of the country, in particular the development of the country's country's rural area, food security and social cohesion. It is therefore a strategic area, and that is why it needs a sound and long-term strategy. In simple terms, we need agreement on a national strategy that goes beyond the mandate of a government, much more than the mandate of a political leadership. This is the most topical issue with the new CAP for which the negotiations will be concluded in the next few years. In particular, and not vaguely, the country and farmers should achieve concrete results in measurable objectives on the basis of a national strategic primary sector development plan. So we ask: have you already drawn up such a plan? Can you accept our programmable proposals? So, are you really ready for the negotiation? Have you seen the dangers in this critical process for the country and for farmers? Here we are, and we will highlight them with information from the facts of your policies and their implementation. Therefore, we will judge you whether you will bring results to a number of factors that are crucial to the agri-food sector, such as the lack of banking finance, the arrogance and penalisation of insurance and tax contributions, the taxation of aid at a time when Community financing in the CAP is at risk of falling further by depriving Greek farmers, the treatment of the high cost of production, the weakening of Greek stockfarming, the hazelnuts with forest maps, which we in Halkidiki have experienced very strongly, the mess and the surprise by balancing compensation, the delays in the payment of compensation from ELGA, but also the reorganisation of ELGA by means of a new insurance regulation to address damages from extreme weather phenomena, as we have recently experienced in Chalkidiki, the delay of the Agricultural Development Programme, the management of irrigation of water, the introduction of new agricultural products and the development of agricultural products and the development of agricultural land-related products and the development of agricultural development aid, the development of agricultural products and the development of rural development aid, the development of agricultural and the development of agricultural sector, the development of agricultural sector as well-stight-stight-stight-strack-strack-strack-s, the development of agricultural products and rural development-s, the development-strack-strack-s, the development of agricultural sector, the development aid, the development of rural development of agricultural and rural development of rural development aid and rural development of agricultural products and rural development aid, the development of rural development of rural development of agricultural products and rural development and rural development of agricultural products and rural development of agricultural products and rural development of agricultural products and rural development of rural development of agricultural products and rural development of agricultural products and rural development of agricultural products and rural development of agricultural products and agricultural products, the development of agricultural products and rural development of agricultural products and rural development-s, the development, the development, the development, the development, the development, the development, the development aids, the development of rural development of rural development of rural development of rural development of rural development-s, the development of rural development, the development of rural development of rural development of rural development of rural development, the development, the development of rural development of rural development of agricultural products and rural development and rural development, the Finally, we will judge you for what we in the Change Movement believe deeply, the change in the production model so that Greek agriculture can obtain identity and from a low-cost agriculture to become an agriculture based on quality production. That is why we have not been satisfied with your planning positions as they have been developed, we do not give a vote of confidence to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u133	Mr Javarras has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Haritsis will be followed, and then the State Secretary, Mr. Michailidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can object that the debate on the Programmatic Declarations of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis began and is currently evolving in an atmosphere of unprecedented parliamentary decency and political correctness. I hope that this atmosphere will be a source and an authentic one, that it will form the basis for a new political climate in the country's public affairs, which will facilitate compositions and always lead to the best proposal for the progress of the country's history. And since everything starts from culture, it seems, because culture has the power to transform known situations that we lived before, in our previous terms in parliament, I too dedicate my first speech to this particular House in culture. In the culture from which I have passed and in which I have nursed in the years 2012 and 2013, and I will always remember that if there is an intangible productive power that Greece must invest in, there is no doubt that it must be its great, intangible culture. As you know, I am a man who for seven consecutive parliamentary terms comes from Ancient Olympia as an MEP of Elijah and as a man who actually my life has been linked to the creation of situations of political, professional, personal, family in this area. In this place where history favored him to be one of the largest, most recognizable sites in the world on behalf of Greece. So on this land of Olympia, in this unchanging maiden womb that has not been mutilated and is never to be destroyed there, as the poet says, the light will be reborn with all its possible timely and unreported references. So, I think, following the thread of the words of the Prime Minister and the chosen Minister of Culture, Mrs Lina Mendoni, we have a unique opportunity at this time in this parliamentary term, under excellent parliamentary conciliation, to promote a unique and opening step for Greece in the world through and through culture. Take the initiative and invite the other seven well-known cultures represented by an equal number of countries in the world and join a group that we could call it C8 in proportion to or contrary to the G8. Because I think that if there is a country that is legitimate to take such an initiative is Greece. Because in Greece no one can recognize the privilege of history, poetry, metaphysics to lead all those efforts that have taken place over the centuries and have been implemented historically in order to give a better, more beautiful, more philosophical, more human and more peaceful dimension to humanity. So I would like to propose one of the first initiatives to be in Ancient Olympia, in a year to be identified, to call on the eight major countries, which are still descendants and heirs of the great civilizations that still affect our lives, to gather in Ancient Olympia for this legacy conference of such an effort. But in this project, we will find two obstacles which, unfortunately, politics and administration have shown over the past decades. The first is that the Olympian road, unfortunately, has stopped in Patras, has not reached Olympia and, as you can see, there is an issue of accessibility. The technical culture cannot go as far as the source of the culture in which we are all commemorating and believing today. Because the previous government, unfortunately, annulled the contest the Samara government had declared. The work of this motorway would have been completed today if this particular project had not been partitioned, and as a result, the work was incarcerated and no one ever knows what will be done. But the second thing I would like to point out is that there is another site that is the Kaiafa lake, which, unfortunately, even today, we have been talking about in the last two months, the thermal baths are still closed for reasons that no one can explain, perhaps for reasons relating to the mismanagement of administrative services. So with this kind of stumbling blocks we cannot give him access to our culture, to this intangible production power, which may be equivalent to the effectiveness of a nuclear arsenal in peace and in peace projects, to give him access to taking part of the great burdens that the crisis has accumulated to us. That is why I consider above all that we have a debt in our hands and through culture to find all those possibilities and powers needed to take the place one step further. And this does not have to be done in Athens. Let the Niarche Foundation make a work unique, worthy of Ancient Olympia, an Olympic standard sports centre where there is every year or every two years to gather athletes from all parts of the world and under the Hermes trumpet to come and participate in sports events that will do nothing but stimulus the spirit of peace and people's fellowship in sports that do not participate in the official programme of the Olympic Games or in sports that these Olympic Games have never been interested in in integrating them into their program, such as the jumping sport without time, the pacracy, the Greek Greek struggle, which was rejected. This is an objective possible on which, in this spirit that is now being formed in Parliament, in the spirit of understanding and decency, we can all fight and achieve things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u135	Thank you. Next speaker, Mr. Haritsis, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I should first like to wish the Greek Parliamentarians and Members of Parliament well and good service to all newly elected and oldest Members of Parliament. I listen with great interest to the debate that started on Saturday afternoon. I heard before and when Mr Javarra was placed, and I cannot start with a point. The label for clear climate change to which Mr Javarras referred earlier than before. What the New Democracy MP did not say, however, is that this climate change is due precisely to the fact that the citizens no longer have the feeling that the country is on the verge of destruction, they do not feel that they do not know what will dawn them, there is not all this general sense of insecurity that prevailed in previous years. And there is not first and foremost thanks to the sacrifices of the Greek people over the last four and a half years, but of course also to the political choices made by the SYRIZA Government over the last four and a half years. For the first time, then, after ten years of crisis, we can discuss the future of the Greek economy without the limitations of the Memorandum, we can have a dialogue, we can compare the growth model that we will follow in the coming years and the priorities that we need to set. We can do this because we now have macroeconomic and institutional credibility, but also the financial profile to draw up our own future. Of course, we do not claim that our government has solved all the problems. Not at all. But, undeniably, Greece is in a more promising position today, precisely because the SYRIZA government has managed to achieve a number of goals that no government has ever achieved in the past. First and foremost, of course, the country's exit from the memoranda and the committee, the medium-term debt settlement and the fact that for the first time after many years the public funds are full. These are the positives. But the problems are now beginning. The problems have to do with the fact that while the country has now acquired very significant potential for the future, it has taken decisive steps towards the future, at the same time the new government is ideologically committed to a model of development that regenerates pathogens and has led the country historically to an unprecedented economic, social and political crisis. I want to be honest. We are all anxious to hear the Prime Minister's Programming Declarations. Someone expects to hear the Prime Minister of the country at his best moment, where he will testify, if you like, his vision of the future. Listening to Mr Mitsotakis on Saturday night, I could not help but think that we are faced with a jump, unfortunately, backwards, a return to a familiar political speech, without, of course, the acidity that he saw when he was in opposition - he no longer needs a reason - that combines old-fashioned commitments, ideological assurances and fancy fireworks that will soon be erased. We should probably expect that, because we were unfortunately warned. We were warned by the first samples of the new government. The Government is silently silent about the pillars of SYRIZA’s social policy, as well as silence about the planned and targeted reductions that we had launched since the first months of 2019. That silence worries us. And we are concerned that we remember the Members of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis to despise and despise the measures to support the impotence that our government has implemented, the tax reliefs that we have voted on for the middle-class, the recruitments to education, health and self-government that we have been launching in recent years. I know, of course, what will be the answer on the part of the Coupling. They will say about the ENPI and they will argue that the reduction there is a precursor to the New Democracy's tax reduction policy. I could welcome the fact that, in principle, you are adopting the SYRIZA model on this issue, namely not the horizontal but the gradual reduction in the tax. However, I can only note with surprise that you have decided to reduce 10% for property with an objective value of more than EUR 1 million, resulting in a significant budgetary burden. That is where the question arises: How will you fill the budget gap from this clearly defined option? Can you assure us that the reduction of HPAI to large property will not be followed by compensatory measures of austerity for the social majority? I fear that you will not be able to speak quite simply: because you have abandoned the objective of reducing primary surpluses. And this option leads to a stubborn given fact: 2020 should be saved at least 1% of GDP, i.e. around 2 billion euros. Where are you going to get that money? And the most outrageous thing is that we'll find ourselves in this dead end, even though your SYRIZA government had occupied a very important tool. You rejected within just four days the initiative we took to deposit 5.5 billion from the security pillow in the Special Trusted Account - on Escrow Account - so that the surpluses from 2020 would be reduced by 1% without violating the agreement. We in this plan strengthened tax relief and support measures for the weak. Does our country have the luxury of abandoning its negotiating weapons before even using them? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance for a minute. Obviously, the New Democracy's response is affirmative and the reason is simple: because austerity is inherent in your ideology and on this ground there is no reason for negotiation, there is no stress about the burden the new financial hole will bear, there is no assurance of the future of social and development policy in the country. This is the model of the New Democracy. And we have already seen it in the first days of your governance on three very critical fronts: In action with the constant references to the PPC collapse - it is well known that neoliberal recipe, sell through depreciation - the experiments that we hear right and left, but not yet clear position by the Prime Minister on the insurance system, the privatisation of subsidiary insurance that puts at risk both the future of workers and pensioners, but also the viability of the system itself - but also the logic of the new one - which comes from the past - the leadership of the Ministry of Labour, which refers to a model of development based on low-paid and flexible work. Here you will also allow me one final comment, because we often listen to Mr Mitsotakis and even more intensely after his election as Prime Minister, to defeat populism as the greatest passivity of post-population. And I am really wondering: is Mr Mitsotakis' attitude to the tragic disaster in Matti and in the national critical negotiation of the Prespecies does not refer to the definition of populism and does it not constitute a cynical assumption of this fact, that today, just ten days after the election of the new government, on the one hand, do you recognise the benefits of the Prespes and, at the same time, place Mr Tsubala in the position of the Secretary-General of the Public Order, Mr Tsubala, whose head on a table you were asking just a year ago? In my opinion, the core of the New Democracy strategy is revealed here. While in opposition, he smacked in the filthy waters of opposition and populist speech, unleashed to the cancellation of the Prespecies Agreement, tolerated at the rally the extreme right and the cries of those who spoke of traitors, resorted to the trembling of Eye and now that New Democracy wants to appear as the war of populism. This is an irresponsible, dangerous and cynical attitude. We, with the government's experience now available, will exercise a combatant and responsible opposition, a fighter for the unforgettable defence of the interests of society, in the sense that our positions will be confronted with the government on the basis of objectives and priorities that we consider to be important for the country's progress and the well-being of the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u137	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u138	Finally, SYRIZA will exert an active opposition as we are already planning initiatives, with the participation of citizens, on crucial issues relating to the economy, institutions and the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last four years Greece has travelled a long and difficult route. It is necessary to continue and not go back to bankrupt logic of the past, to unregulated growth based on labour degradation and the environment, to disperse public money and to divest public goods. Such a prospect will unequivocally find us toward them. We do not have the luxury of turning back for all the reasons of the world, but above all because the Greek society has for the first time, after many years, the opportunity to think about the future free from the coercion of the crisis. This conquest will be defended until the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u139	Mr Michailidou, State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is my first meeting. Above all, I feel obliged to thank the Prime Minister for the honour he has made me trusted with and entrusting me with the highest multipliers in society. I will honor his trust. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Let me put our programme before you on welfare and social solidarity for the next few years, a programme resulting from the Prime Minister's commitments, but also from our vision of a fair and effective social policy, the main axes and measures needed to implement it, as well as our priorities for substantial changes in the bad texts of previous years, as well as being loyal to our deep conviction in the continuation of the state, strengthening the positive measures that we have taken to the Ministry from the previous administration. We describe our programming policy in a concise way with a horizontal and three vertical axes. The horizontal: our demographic problem. The three perpendiculars: First, strengthening the institution of the family. Secondly, development of a strategic social policy framework. Thirdly, independent living for people with disabilities. Our demographic problem: In recent years all research has shown that we have been faced with a painful reality. In our country every year fewer people are born than those who die. We have a hundred and twenty-five deaths for eighty-eight thousand births. According to the recent report by the Intergroup of Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the downward trend in the population is such that, in thirty-five years, our populations are at risk of shrinking in 1/4. We now need a national demographic strategy that goes beyond parties and policies. We want you all to be involved in strengthening the welfare and health system, social cohesion, pension and production potential, by developing the labour market. The demographic problem can only be tackled through a central governmental family policy. I'm going to the first vertical axis: I'm strengthening the institution of the family. The family continues to be a key cell of society and a strong social protection factor after the organized state. By aiming at our action in the institution of the family, we are moving on two axes, while taking qualitative and quantitative measures at the same time. Quality measures: We ensure that all children have positions in kindergartens. We support the programme 'Harmonisation of family and working life', so that not only can the available income increase in each family - and here comes the quality of this measure - but also to increase the participation of women, mothers in the labour market and to strengthen the socialisation of children at younger age, since all the research shows that the smaller the children are and are part of organised socialisation structures, the greater and more positive is the impact on the human capital and the potential of the country. Quantitative measures: We apply at least four social measures at the same time. Firstly, we introduce an allowance of EUR 2,000 for every child born in Greece. With this measure we face the increased needs of the first postnatal period, so that these costs do not constitute an implicating factor, especially for each new pair. Secondly, we are raising the tax limit by EUR 1,000 for each child. Thirdly, we support the school meal programme. Fourthly, we are considering the possibility of providing additional incentives specifically for younger families, those that women give birth 30 years ago, since we know that the younger the woman, the higher the possibility of giving birth to a child. Second vertical axis: development of a strategic social policy framework. The country's social policy framework has had a key feature for decades: relatively high social costs as a percentage of GDP, but a low impact on poverty rates. According to ELSTAT and EUROSTAT data, between 1995 and 2008 expenditure on social protection shifted from 20% to 26% of GDP, thus reaching the average of the European Union and at the same time the rate of absolute poverty remained unchanged. In other words, the State carried out satisfactory quantitative expenditure, but it was unable to strengthen, relieve the most vulnerable. The introduction in 2014 of the minimum guaranteed income by the Government of New Democracy has decisively faced these distortions of the social protection system. Unfortunately, the previous government, although smuggled it as a trap of poverty, initially suspending - if we all remember - for two years its universal geographical application, not only accepted its correctness, but attempted and credited it politically as a so-called institutional child. Even for its implementation, however, it could hardly be proud. We can all remember the images of a total lack of organisation, terrible suffering, great tails of all the beneficiaries who joined the municipalities' services to submit their requests. The minimum guaranteed income in 2014 was the beginning of our attempt at social policy expenditure with clear targeting and tangible results. That is why we are strengthening it so that the appropriations entered in the 2020 budget are EUR 1 billion from EUR 850,000 000 000, which is today. Also - something very important for its absorption - we seek to target the most vulnerable population groups, so that the sections of the population close to the limit of absolute poverty, such as single-parent families and families with minors, are given the help they need. I quickly pass on the third vertical axis, the independent living of people with disabilities. Our aim is to do the independent living and accessibility principle, fundamental human rights enshrined in Articles 19 and 9 of the United Nations Convention. So we have three main policies. Firstly, the regulatory safeguarding of access for disabled people to the labour market and high-responsibility positions. Secondly, the upgrading of their special education in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. Thirdly, establishing a staff qualification with full professional and insurance rights. These are the main axes of our programming policy. Before I close, you'll let me make a little mention of the bodies supervised by our department. Already in the first days of taking up our duties, we have received a number of requests for intervention from the Ministry in order to solve pressing problems even as regards the basics for the operation of the supervised social welfare institutions, such as the payment of workers and the housing of their services. It is understandable that the budgetary constraints of recent years have had an impact on the functioning of supervised bodies. But what is not understood, given this restrictive financial framework, is that the previous political leadership has not even attempted to solve problems of an organisational nature of the bodies, which are not just burdening them, but often leading to their paralysis. We know that the challenge is great and difficult. However, as every pessimistic finds the difficulty at every opportunity, every optimist finds the opportunity at every difficulty. Because we are also optimistic, but above all very hardworking, you have no doubt that we will do the job and do it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Minister two questions. The first is whether what you said about the EUR 2 000 for every child - that the Prime Minister did not say in his speech or at least I did not hear it - will start from 2019, from 2020 or from 2021. Second question: are these EUR 2,000 extra, in addition to other social costs, or will you be cut from somewhere else to get this? If you're gonna cut, tell me where you're going to cut. I also want to ask a different question about the family that needs support. Do you intend to continue with the recruitments for "Help at Home", which we have promoted? Because I imagine that as a young woman and a new Minister you would not like - like Mr Mitsotakis - the woman to do this work for the great people. In other words, the woman, who will have a child on the left hand, a broom in the right hand and a computer to work from home, look at the big people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u144	Madam Minister, you have the floor for a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. I think the answer to all three questions is 'yes', with a small footnote on how you put the latter. I don't think the Prime Minister has any intentions like that. Instead, that's why I think he trusted me with this role.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u146	About the cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u147	I am going to your first question about the 2,000 euros and when they are budgeted. We are in constant cooperation with the Ministry's authorities for the 2020 budget. As to whether or not to be extra or to cut something else, the answer is 'no'. At the moment we are - obviously - working together and in contact with the Ministry of Finance. These don't cut anything else. It's horizontal and it's for every birth. As for 'Help to Home', no, we do not limit it and in any case it is not the intention of the Prime Minister or his staff that the woman should be in the situation you describe. I think we're...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u148	Is there going to be these places? We had said about those who were not permanent, through AEP to have three thousand places for 'Help at home'. I ask if you intend to continue with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u149	What I can tell you is that there is no intention of that being abolished from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u150	Mr Papanastassis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u151	In recent years the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA have consistently implemented a policy of suffocating our country into imperialist competitions, NATO, the US and the European Union projects. Today the baton of this catastrophic choice is in the hands of the New Democracy. These governments, like the other urban parties, consciously overshadow the enormous risks that this policy entails for the Greek people. They are urging the role of imperialist organizations. That is why I will mention a few facts, but also their consequences for our people. NATO is the armed hand of Euro-Atlantic imperialism against the peoples. This has now been proved in practice. Battered are the words 'Yugoslavia', 'Afghanistan', 'Iraq', 'Libya', 'Syria' and others. The pretexts for their interventions are known and overshadowed. Energy security, cyber-war, the supposed restoration of democracy and so forth, are invoking counter-terrorism. Who? But those who created, financed and trained terrorist organisations like ISIS, Al-Qaida and others. Didn't you know? Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs not know about this when he scams on his successful meetings with the red tape of the US Department of Foreign Affairs? In recent years NATO has been enlarged to include Albania, Montenegro, lately and northern Macedonia. The accession of the latter is also the reason for NATO's mandate to sign the Ambassadors' Agreement with the SYRIZA Government, as well as the conscientious objection of the New Democracy. The military American presence in the wider region of the Middle East, North Africa, the Gulf, the Balkans, the eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean and Asia is also strengthened. The European Union, as a transnational imperialist alliance, is diversely involved in intra-imperialist competition. Strong Member States - its members actively participate in the wars in the Syrian, Libyan, sub-Saharan Africa. The European Union is NATO's close ally with its cooperation to be strengthened in recent years. Although the European Union is facing NATO as a key pillar in the security of its capitalist member states, it is gradually preparing its Eurocrat. That is why it makes use of agreements such as PESCO, to which Greece, by decision of the previous government of SYRIZA, participates. The involvement of our country in these imperialist plans - direct and indirect - is undeniable. Unfortunately the result of this involvement is also the orientation of the doctrine of the use of the Greek Armed Forces. When Greek foreign policy is geared to supporting US projects, NATO and the European Union, then the Armed Forces of our country, a key pillar in supporting its foreign policy, are also oriented towards serving these projects. This is an extremely dangerous option. And it is dangerous for our people, of course, because the result of this involvement is the forced division of the power of the Greek Armed Forces into two axes. One is intended to support imperialists. The other, which is dramatically downgraded, is about the possibility of defending our borders, our sovereign rights. And this is happening today where the top of Turkish aggression is dominant. Moreover, even the first-year students of military productive schools know that from the analysis of the doctrine of the use of the Armed Forces, their missions, the necessary weapon systems are identified, i.e. armaments and personnel training. So these are adapted to imperialist needs. This is why precious resources of the chapter “House Forces” are wasted in unnecessarily outdated areas, Finland, Libya and elsewhere. It is extremely dangerous for the people, the workers, the unemployed, the youth, the New Democracy's intention to incorporate into the Armed Forces' missions and to provide security at home, in the city and in the country, that is to say, the Armed Forces and police duties. This design is the result of the Namibian directive on the treatment of asymmetric threats, a directive which directly targets the people and their struggle. These positions must be condemned by the people and also by the personnel of the Armed Forces. The majority of this staff come from people's families, victims, and yet their anti-popular policy of PASOK, SYRIZA and New Democracy. Their interests are common to workers, poor farmers, pensioners. There is no interest in our country participating in the US, NATO, the European Union and other imperialist alliances. The Communist Party of Greece will continue, strengthening its struggle, against our country's involvement in the imperialist plans to develop the common fight of the peoples against the imperialist wars. It will continue uninterruptedly to claim the satisfaction of the legitimate demands of the personnel of the Armed Forces. It will stand on the side of the resistance to the anti-popular attack on modern folk needs. Finally, the power of the Communist Party of Greece expresses the only philosophical way out, the struggle to become the people owner of wealth that produces socialism for the labour power.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u152	Mr Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish, first and foremost, good and productive service to all and to all. The Greek Parliament needs our essential and responsible contribution to meet the requirements of the Greek citizens who ask us for a lot of work, low tones and, above all, a few words and tangible solutions to the problems of everyday life. Good luck I also wish to our Government, which has a titanium project before it to do, a titanium task consistent with the inadequate policies of previous government, but also with the time-consuming problems that now require solutions, sectoral, bold reforms. All of us in the New Democracy, all of us feeling the heavy responsibility of our role, will also stand up to the circumstances this time. We will do what Mr Tsipras and his parliamentarians have never done again in the years of their own government. We will pursue excellence, but not, in order to punish it, condone it and marginalize it, but in order to approach it as a commitment of work, of morality and of convincingness, to be inspired by it, to be seen as a lighthouse and an ideal attitude of life. Ladies and gentlemen, times change. Since the years in which all he liked was a sterile and populist political speech, which has never been accompanied by projects, we have been going through the years that we hope - and we will be judged on this - that actions and rational policies will be excellent. The present government is being called upon to deal quickly with a number of key issues. We didn't ask for a period of grace. Problems don't understand from summers. The Prefecture of Imathia, from where I come, also experiences, like the entire Greek territory, the deadlocks of the economic crisis. The once-in-a-half point of the economic, industrial, commercial and rural connection between Greece and the Balkans and Europe has passed and is still going through a protracted economic crisis that has deepened its marks in social, commercial and cultural life. Imathia, the first county in Greece in the production of peaches and the second in the production of apples, a prefecture with more than 65% agricultural population, requires solutions, dominating the primary sector. Because the impact of SYRIZA's four-year-old policy on our farmers has unfortunately been disastrous. Serious taxation, the launching of insurance contributions and the glaring of production costs, together with the unfavourable consequences of the Russian embargo, have brought the absolute dead end. At the same time, the farmers affected had to deal with the proverbiality of the ELGA, who, in the great disasters, did not only proceed to direct assessments, but is far too late to pay compensation. At this point I would like to thank the new leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, which in the recent theory in northern Greece responded quickly. At the request of the Minister, Mr Voridis, the Deputy Minister herself, Mrs Arabatzis, visited immediately the affected areas of our prefecture. The estimates have already begun, the state mechanism is finally turning and we hope for quick and fair compensation. It is with great satisfaction that Imathia has listened to the Programmatic Declarations of the new Minister for Rural Development, with a view to increasing production and competitiveness, creating high quality products and increasing employment. However, with the same satisfaction Imathia has listened to the Programmatic Declarations and other Ministers aimed at encouraging entrepreneurship, combating bureaucracy, strengthening infrastructure, stimulating tourism and exploiting the enormous cultural potential of the Greek region. Because Imathia shouldn't be known only for its agricultural production. Another major chapter concerns the enormous development potential that tourism and culture can give in cooperation with healthy entrepreneurship. The Prefecture of Imathia is a typical example of a region whose vast natural, cultural and above all archaeological heritage has not been sufficiently integrated into the overall tourism planning that will stimulate its economic and social development. The wonderful fringes of the archaeological site of Vergina, the school of Aristotle in Naoussa, as well as the step of Apostle Paul in Veroia, the two major ski resorts of Celion and the Three - Five Pigadias, the cradle of Pontian Hellenism, Panagia Suméla, and the exceptional beauty of Byzantine churches and monasteries, the gastronomic and oenological tradition of the county were and in many still remain unknown tourist destinations abroad. It is therefore of paramount importance to develop alternative forms of tourism that will highlight and exploit the comparative advantages of Imathia: from agricultural tourism and ecotourism, to archaeological, sporting, conference and as well as church tourism and from the particular and rich tradition to its unique customs and customs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for the new government to bring the positive results anticipated by the Greek people, both institutionally and in the face of the history of the liberal party, to have a dynamic but also constructive governance for economic development, for social reintegration, for national armoring and for strengthening. And he'll make it. Moreover, this guarantees the main axes of the measured and costly plan of the New Democracy, as our President himself presented to them by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with predominant aspects of reducing the tax rates and insurance burdens for each Greek and each Greek, creating new and well-paid jobs through an explosion of private investment and through brave fiscal incentives, regeneration of our agriculture, as I said, through the reduction of tax rates, strengthening competitiveness and, in particular, the transition to a new model of rural entrepreneurship based on innovation, but also the targeted use of the Community funds of the new Rural Development Programme, the upgrading of our public health and education by recruitment to hospitals and schools, and care for vulnerable groups of citizens and special education, the shielding of the security of citizens by recruitment to the police and the benefit of society. In this struggle for national recovery, New Democracy is a leading player, and unfortunately SYRIZA has been left in a role of exile. Really, Mr. Tsipras, what you said Saturday night from this Step here, who are you trying to convince? Because people have now rejected populism, ideologies and bizarre reasoning that in your years they have given political speech and political practice. The 'or we finish them or end' does not belong to the new era, Mr Tsipras. They remain definitively in the past, as is unfortunately the orientation of your policy. I expect to see if you and your Members will get to the last point of political irresponsibility by voting against the tax reductions proposed by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Comrade, I gave you two minutes. Don't finish us too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u155	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy will do what its name suggests: build the new Greek democracy of the 21st century, because we believe in Greece that it creates, in Greece which produces and distinguishes itself. Because we believe in democracy in democracy, democracy in order, security, respect, justice. We believe in the meaning of our homeland and church, because we honor our sacred and oaths. On the new page that goes back to our homeland, we don't just need all of us. He needs the best of us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u156	My colleague, Mr Dimitrios Markopoulos, is calling for a short-day absence from abroad from 26-7-2019 to 29-7-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u157	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that, with the results of the recent elections, the Greek people give the signal of the new era that they are looking for our country. For the first time since the great economic crisis which has denounced our people, the mandate of the electorate is clear: for the New Democracy to govern itself, without the strangles and political paradoxes we have recently experienced. For the Opposition, especially for Acoustic Opposition, to adopt such practices that create conditions for fertile criticism and interventions that will not fuel artificial tensions within and outside the House and will not dynamise the political normality, the functioning of our democratic culture and the prospect of the country. On the contrary, they will forge the necessary democratic axis for political stability and national promotion. The programming speech of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as it was clear in the debate we are holding, focuses on the implementation of this mandate with the foundation of a new normality which is rival to the old pathways, with measurable results on the basis of the actions taken by the Greek people in the elections to break with the past, with rapid and accurately regenerating the middle class, the liberation of all the productive growth forces of our country and especially the Greek region, the production of wealth for all, the change of the mixture of economic policy but also other important policies that focus on humans, reliable and effective, with determined and costed goals and instruments that are aimed not only at today but at the new Greece that is putting for landmark in 2021, which is completed for two hundred years by the National Paliggeesia. And if the government in its early days of operation with its readiness, clear positions and good interventions strengthens the conviction that something good must finally happen in our country, it is not, unfortunately, the same for Anti-Population and, above all, for Civic Anti-Population. Her positions and rhetoric again show that she returns to her sad past and puts political ostrichism in direct application. They, apparently, do not want to let us forget the loss of four and a half years, the environment of daily experimentation, the situation that they have created, dehydrated the dreams of young people and which has turned the thirst into a better life in despair, that they have caused the excellence of the excellents from our country, that they have been unreserved for the real economy, that they have lifted walls in logic and imposed paradox on the public debate, that they have offended the Greek citizen by distorting reading reality in an attempt to create a virtual reality with supposedly answers to the problems they have created. Especially for the islands of Greece, ladies and gentlemen, to the inhabitants of our every island in this sea, which breathes genuine Greekness, to all my extreme compatriots, I respectfully turn my thoughts to all of us who were punished by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with the abolition of the reduced VAT rates - the most basic acquis of our islands - and its assignment to creditors, however, we want to live equally and with dignity and who seek the self-evident: doctors, nurses, experts for a haemorrhaging and receiving a X-ray - when a child, Mr. President, beats his hand, he needs it at that time - educational and of course frequent transportation and connection to the centre and the major neighbouring islands. I turn my thoughts to the islands - emblematic tourist destinations, such as Rhodes and Kos, which are seeking to be accompanied by the necessary infrastructure, with anguish at last that there should be substantial growth in relation to international competitive destinations. Kos, the homeland of Hippocrates, the country's third tourist destination, cannot have a modern hospital unit and a postgraduate centre that attracts the interest of the global medical community. It is not possible for the fishing in Kalymnos to be dealt with hostilely and the largest fishing fleet in the Aegean Sea today is without work and with huge problems. Also, Leros, despite its potential, has been transformed without the least rationalization simply on an island - a receptor of human souls. This list for our islands is certainly not exhausted by my references. But all this is in the spirit of the island policy in which the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis are committed to becoming pregnant and effectively confronted. The Dodecanese and the Aegean deserve to be - and will be - high in our political strategy and in our development agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, with courageous voice and approach to defending national interests, with humble commitment to the needs of the most isolated regions of our country, with a commitment to the demands of the family, with practical recognition of the islandity, with passion for the protection and promotion of our old and modern cultural wealth, we are ready for the great battle for our Greece. It is true that in our country's history it is difficult to find periods of regularity and under no circumstances was the last thing we have lived through. But already the self-reliance of the new government, the positions developed, the first days of the country's governance by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and, of course, the current vote of confidence prescribe that a new such period is born for our country. I support the New Democracy Government's programme and vote for the vote of confidence in Mr Mitsotakis and his Government to bring the country with security, consistency and optimism to the future of many expectations and great challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u159	For twelve minutes the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Adonis Georgiadis has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always a very important moment in a person's life to assume an important public office, which is very responsibilities. I intend, as I have done both previous times when fate has given me the opportunity to take on as much responsibility as I have in a post affecting the lives of my fellow citizens, to manage it with the greater labour force, with the greater consistency and speed I can. I give a small example of today's news. Two days ago, some of the CRETA FARM employees informed me that this week the company would close and stay all of them - about eight hundred people as a whole - without a job. Saturday I decided to take the initiative. I have brought to the Ministry - and I thank the representatives of the four systemic banks, some of their family obligations - successively the shareholders, who, as you know, are in the middle of a great family conflict. I have used as much as I am convinced - and in this case it turns out that I have some - and what could not be done for a number of months has come true. Today, both shareholders signed the Memorandum of Cooperation with banks that ensure the company's smooth financing, secure jobs, find a strategic investor, and continue the company. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] When I started this exercise, it made me an astonishing impression, Minister, that all the Syrian accounts - with your informal representative, Mr Vaxebanes - began to excite me online because the Minister for Development and Investment has been involved in saving a company. I would like to ask you whether you think it is good - and I say it is good - that Mr Flamouraris enters to rescue MARINOPOULO with the SKLAVENIT - 'MARINOPOULOU' agreement, but it is wrong that Georgiadis saves jobs in 'CRETA FARM'. I'm saying this because they're representing you online. I am only speaking about the Minutes - because I would like to tell my new colleagues that there are also good times in politics - the message sent to me by the President of the workers, Mr Kaklidakis a moment ago. He refers to his message: "Minister, good evening. For just getting in front of you and lifting up such a complex problem, I as an organization worker thank you." And he calls me for a distinguished lamb in Crete. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above e-mail, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] That is why we are in politics, ladies and gentlemen, to solve people's problems and not to fight in Parliament or elsewhere. I'm coming to second. I listened carefully yesterday to Mr. Tsakalotos and his slight irony as to whether Georgiadis could improve investment in Greece and especially green investments. It's a good thing what you're saying. I have faced you for four years, as you know, in good faith and I look forward to being treated in the same way. I have dealt with you in good faith, although you declare Marxist and have had to be Minister of Finance in a capitalist economy, which is difficult. I plead liberal, so I play on a easier field. So I say in the Minutes, because politics you know is a measurable size, the 'Doing Business' of the World Bank. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's what I'm picking up on. It is the world's largest report on the business environment indicator in one country. I give it to the Minutes for the Greek people to know exactly what the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the supposed Minister in the field of investment receives. Today we are talking about Greece - in Greece you delivered us - to the seventeenth second place. Last year, he lost 0.12 points. We are overtaken - I am not talking about all the countries because I will tire you - Moldova, Mexico, Rwanda, Kenya, Bahrain, Albania and various other countries. We're in second place. I am tabling the index because it will be our success if the next index of World Bank has been uploaded to other countries and to the score, because every major investor before deciding to go to one country - if you don't know it - the first one to go google by looking for the Internet is that, because it tells him if in that country he will be troubled if he does his job in that country or if in that country he is going to be in trouble. Mr Papapas, you have left - I am glad that you are my "skid" Minister - I think it is good for me - a country that is about twenty seats under Rwanda. You don't say that, very good score for Greece. I'm very sorry to say this, and I hope God will force us to do much better. However, in order to do this, we must be able to reach agreement on human beings in that country. Said the Prime Minister in his speech - I beg your pardon, Mr. Tsipras, did you see the habit of doing, thankfully it ceases to be Prime Minister - and with a dose of irony, Mr. Phile, "What did you do, Mr. Mitsotakis, when you became Prime Minister? Did you transfer the General Secretariat of Research and Technology to the Ministry of Development? Georgiadis will do the job?" You said it with a slight irony. In the Minutes, I put the organizational chart of the Finnish Government. I imagine you will all know that Finland is a country that, in general terms, has the best education system in the European Union... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...and it has been the first country to innovate and research in the European Union for decades. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Guess, Mr. Phile, Mr. Pappa, Mr. Tsakalote, and tell Mr. Tsipras. The General Secretariat of Research and Technology, ours, is at Finland's Ministry of Development and Investment and not at the Ministry of Education. So we are doing nothing more than making it self-evident, that is, in the end, that technology research must end up somewhere, that is, in the market and in entrepreneurship. We can't tell each other how great we are. It is to expand business opportunities, create jobs, produce national wealth. This is the direction and this is what Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis gives him with this move to research and technology in Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And now I come to the subject, that is, what we intend to do because we have said nicely what we are receiving - I will say in the end what we receive with the ESDP - but we must say what we intend to do and what we intend to do. First of all, I don't tidy up what you guys tried to do. Many of Mr Drasakis' legislative initiatives have been in the right direction - in addition, several of these have been voted in favour of the New Democracy and I hope that we, as government, will have a similar attitude from you - and many of those who have been ready to vote and have not been able to vote for them, such as marks or for GEMH, to a large extent we will present them. We are, of course, going to change, particularly in terms of GFCM, our political direction, which is the fastest licensing. We want everything to be done on the same day and immediately and not to waste any time on business. However, what can remain from a previous draft law, and we consider it in the right direction, will not only remain but will I tell you to the committee when it comes, precisely what is the work of Mr Drasakis. I, in contrast to you and as you did with the law on the uncertainties of my health service at the Ministry of Health, do not want to rob anyone before. I think it is very nice in politics to see it as a skateboarding that one receives from the previous one and not as a struggle to mock the people more about what it has done, hiding what the previous one has done. But I say to you that we have two very large objectives beyond him immediately tabled in the next few weeks of a bill, which will speed up all forms of licensing. And I say it directly, so you know his philosophy. At any stage of monitoring the dossiers that are ponding at the Ministry of Development, such as the inclusion into the development law or the evaluation of the proposals which also glean to the services for what 'projects', what projects can be included in the development law or other investment tools, we will use and legislate on this 'outsourcing', i.e. private market services, as much as we can run very quickly and nothing remains stuck in Greek bureaucracy. It is incomprehensible to assume that if someone takes a piece of paper that he has done his work, which is signed by one, for example, of the world's largest audit firms, this is of less value than if he controls it in a ministry. So we will go with the bill too quickly to the use of private services, to make a public-sector partnership with the private sector, so that the files do not plunge, not plunge investment, run as quickly as we can. That's what's going to happen in August. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But we also have two long-term objectives. The first, ladies and gentlemen, is the creation in a few months of a central electronic licensing system. You've been trying to do this in part. However, this was partly the case. We do not want it in part. We want any Greek person who wants to get permission for anything that makes his head do in this country, press a button, enter a database, this database uniting with all the databases of the Greek state - from the Ministry of Infrastructure, from the chambers, from the public sector services, from everything - and know on a basis with a button how to quickly get the license he wants. So that's going to be too fast. We know how to do it. But that will have its final outcome as it should. That's why we're gonna need about two years from today. It will be designed from now, in cooperation with the Technical Chamber of Greece, piloted in five cities of Greece directly - if possible in 2019 - while the complete system will be ready in about two years. What's that? It's the single digital map. With the pressing of a button, when one wants to think about whether to buy a plot to make an investment in the smallest part of this country, it will press the button and see terms and constraints of construction, land use, town plans, mooring and building lines, land registers, forests and forest areas, areas of the network "NATURA", agialos, beach and port zones, water, rivers and large lakes nodes, archaeological sites, historical sites, traditional settlements, protected areas. With a button he will know what terms he receives with what he wants to buy and invest. He'll know immediately that he'll get his license, he'll know immediately what problems he'll find in front of him and he'll weigh the business risk of whether he wants to move forward or not. Every investor no more than two years from today when he arrives in this country will know exactly what the business environment is going to do. There won't be any surprises. The red tape won't bother him. This is the direction our ministry has been given by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and that is what we intend to do. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, I'm going to need two more minutes. And now I come to the famous Greek. I am pleased to see Mrs Perka and I want to publicly acknowledge that you have made a great effort to make the Greek. I have no reason to hide it. I thank you for that, because in a sense what we are going to do is follow up what you have done. I believe that you did not have the whole party and the entire government with you, because I see now that because we are running and pushing, of course, because of the Prime Minister, the services that were delaying, giving a negative opinion, making no decisions, now suddenly making a decision, signing and moving very quickly. That is the spirit of the new government. That's why I'm telling you the Greek will start. And it will start this year, in 2019... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...although you know it is incomplete work because it requires the adoption of the joint ministerial decisions - I believe that all three will have been issued in August -, competition for the casino - it will obviously be extended because by 31 July it is impossible to achieve - distribution according to the law and the agreement and then the launch of the project. I read too many articles - the other Cluzeau you have, Culloglou - writes that we will bring, he says, a new Greek law, to change the terms in favour of 'LAMDA'. You also made it a headline on "SUNFER". Well, we're not doing it, Mr. Poppa. The agreement you have voted on will be complied with exactly as you voted for it, with the difference that we will respect it, while you have not been able to respect it. That's our big difference. I shall refer a little to Mr Velopoulos - I do not see him here - whose two arguments I have put forward, because I cannot say them because he is a political leader. One is "Where did you see skyscrapers on the sea that prevent the air from reaching the cities?" I testify for the Practical Photos from Dubai that has only skyscrapers on the sea, just like Hong Kong which has only skyscrapers on the sea, etc. Let's not say much, it's not enough time. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The second and most beautiful argument was "How did you think in an earthquake area to build these two skyscrapers?" That's what Mr. Velopoulos said. I testify for the Practical Photos from San Francisco, which is the world's most seismic region, on the St. Andreas crack - I give some pictures of San Francisco - as is Los Angeles, which is the second most seismic region on the planet. I'll testify for Los Angeles. There is also Tokyo, the third most seismic region on the planet. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a success in your new duties, but the debate in this Chamber must take place seriously, because if you really believe that skyscrapers are not built on the sea and are not built in earthquake areas, you live on another planet rather than the one called earth. I'm saying that, to be informed. So criticize where you have to. I shall conclude, Mr President. What we receive from the ESRB, because as they have done entrepreneurship, we need to know what we receive and what we receive. Well, average absorption without the Rural Development Program, we're at 24.5%. But be careful. 42% of inside projects have not even started as they have not even been met. Only 58% of the projects are compatible. The large absorption indicators you presented are completely false, as you certainly know and come from the fact that Greece for budgetary reasons had received an extra advance in order to be able to show itself in indicators better. In fact we are precisely - I asked the services to write the position to me - today in the nineteenth place from the twenty-eight in absorption. I repeat that we are - and this is what we receive - in the nineteenth place by the twenty-eight and what you said before...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u161	On what criterion?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u162	Absorbability and compatibility, i.e. real absorption. Note that we need three years to finish the ESDP, that is, we should be at least 60% now. In any case, I say this for reasons of history to prevent us from telling us tomorrow what we received from you, that the Greek people should know that we received from you in position seventy-second entrepreneurship and in position nineteenth absorption of the ESRB and we will be judged whether we will go up to one position and whether we will go up to the other, because I repeat that politics is a matter of measurable matter. And I'm only closing with one on-call conversation now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u163	Please, Mr. Georgiadis, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u164	I'm gonna need a second, Mr. President. This whole civilized climate and this idea of a new post-multiple that we are pulling a red line into the crisis and taking us all forward, and the political culture that the new government publishes, I do not want to pass into the mind of any one of you that means forgetting what happened in this country. All our commitments to investigate the preparations of the past and all the efforts you have put forward - not all of you, but obviously some of you, to mud and lie to the political opponents - I assure you that they will be investigated until the last antenna. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wish none of you were involved. This will not be done for reasons of reunification, it will be done for reasons of democracy, because we have to make it clear for future generations that whoever in future thinks of working justice, inventing false witnesses and setting false accusations to hit political opponents will have the end that he deserves. So everything will be done in the institutional way that the Constitution has to and as is provided for. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, I would like to speak because he referred to Mr Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u166	You can't. When Mr. Velopoulos comes, he will take the floor. Besides, it wasn't personal, it was an evaluation crisis over the Greek party's policy, Kyriakos Velopoulos. After all, in about half an hour or three quarters Mr Velopoulos will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u167	He referred insultingly, and that has disturbed us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u168	Please, too much to complete. Mr. Famelos has the floor for six minutes, and then Mr. Fotellas has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to give a quick answer to Mr Georgiadis. Mr Georgiadis, Minister, we do not really forget what happened in this country, because we cannot forget who put Greece in bankruptcy and in the memorials, and we cannot forget who worked to get out of the memoranda, because this is the red line that amends the political operation as well. But I would also like to assure you that we will definitely go up to the World Bank report, because we ourselves have protested because this report does not contain any major reforms that have been made by our government for at least the last two years. I must also tell you that our country is already in the first nine countries in battle for money laundering, because we were in the third category. Furthermore, I would like to tell you what many of your colleagues have been applauding that there is already a single system of spatial data, open data and electronic environmental licensing... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...with all the data on the forest maps of the Land, the Aegean, the uses of land, the archaeology and all the limitations and the potential for growth. You have announced something that already exists with a special address in the Ministry of the Environment, as well as electronic environmental licensing, which has only one point of service for professionals and entrepreneurs, but also all environmental performance for the public. Unfortunately, old sour grapes, Mr. Georgiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope we have a constructive and progressive parliamentary term for the benefit of the country and of the citizens. We will be consistent with the people's mandate, in particular me and my colleague for the citizens of the Second Thessaloniki, for programming and dynamic opposition so that Greece does not go back, ensure all that we have gained and proceeded quickly. I must say, of course, that the forecasts for Thessaloniki and Central Macedonia are horrendous when the only announcement, as Mr Mitsotakis has said, is the renewal of the report we have been working on for two years. What can I say? Unfortunately, we are witnessing a political deception carried out by the New Democracy, on which its election was based, with the ultimate aim of satisfying limited economic interests with agreements made prior to the elections and seeing them at the Ministerial Council. A characteristic example is the attitude in the Macedonian and Embassy Agreements. What other than political deception are the appointments, the choices made by Mr Mavrotas, the Commissioner of Mr Spinx, the censorship of the Mai-Mitsotakis conversation, the public statements recorded by Varvitsiotis - Panagiotopoulos? What other than deception is to announce the reductions in HPAI that are legislated and to hide the reductions in HPAI for over a million euros incomes? This deception, however, in the field of the economy, society and democracy only involves anachronistic and conservative tools, contrary to the European acquis. We hear a lot about reform, regularity and excellence. But is it excellent to appoint party officers to the Ministries without evaluation and transparency, to violate the rules on evaluation in positions of general secretaries, to abolish the Water Secretariat and the Environmental Inspectorate, namely the devaluation of public good water, but also the devaluation of environmental control and environmental crime? That's a clear anachronism. It is a step backwards in terms of the European acquis. Mr Mitsotakis is falsely confessing to green growth, he is simply partisan of the state. And as far as the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, we will expect to see when the Secretary-General has the right to sign, because we know that you still have many deficits. We in the last four and a half years have been making major reforms in the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, real regularity and the background of progress. I cannot mention all of them, but I will give some and we expect to see the work of the New Democracy on them. We have set as the central element of the development planning sustainable development, the objectives of the UN and climate change by amending the target of 1.5 C in terms of the Paris agreement. We are completing the forest maps and the logbook, which has not dared any government to do in the past in fear of political costs for us to have legal certainty, investment, citizens and the environment. We provide a comprehensive institutional framework for spatial planning with resources to complete the planning, with a single spatial data system and integrated regional plans as a background for development. We already have electronic building permits, electronic town planning, platforms that you announced for ten years without ever being implemented. We have designated the NATURA areas, we have ensured the functioning of environmental bodies, we have launched the presidential decrees and management plans and also work. We have a circular economy strategy with Greece in the first ten of Europe. We are pleased that Mr Mitsotakis announced initiatives to limit disposable plastics, following our choice to limit the use of the plastic bag, which you have not dared to do in the past. Let us note, however, that in addition to the congratulations, you also need to assume important responsibilities in the cyclical economy and especially in the price policy that reduces municipal fees. They go ahead with national wastewater and waste water plans with two and a half billion guaranteed from public resources, so that the public has lower costs and that Greece does not have any fines, and it is important to understand that the European Union is giving priority to recycling and that we will also not accept tricks, which under the table will carry to the public via PPP an inappropriate financial cost, when it has been shown that there are resources and other solutions. In climate change and energy planning Greece first acquired a national plan with investments of 35 billion by 2030. Our framework is climate neutral Europe in 2050, which the new President, Ursula von der Lyen, has already taken a stand. We have long supported the plan for climate neutrality, you have not yet. We're waiting. The plan aims to combat energy poverty, but also to ensure a fair transition with renewable energy sources, electricity, the interconnection of islands that were stuck and dismantled, the reduction of pollutants and carbon dioxide emissions, energy savings. We have created a transparent institutional framework for investments in renewable energy sources by removing grey zones and loopholes, which led to the 'HELLAS - ENERGA' case that burdened PPC. With that regularity, we want to go. You, I wonder if you're still with the state-owned and parasitic capital. We inherited in 2015 a huge deficit in the special RES account, about 0.8 billion, which is currently being received surplus. We replaced the system of guaranteed prices with competitive tenders and with an investment cycle of 3 billion in renewable energy sources by 2019. What are you talking about? We launched the revision of the Special Spatial Plan for RES, aiming to have the cumulative environmental impact and Greece is already pioneering in the first ten countries in RES electricity production. We already have 30% of RES electricity and we go to 57% in 2030. We have moved on to the establishment of energy communities, an institutional innovation which produces from below with local solutions of value and work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We upgraded the country's geopolitical role by making the gas portal for Southeast Europe and the Balkans, the southern gas corridor, the IGB, East Med, the LNG in Alexandroupolis, Revithousa, and the Forum Natural Gas in the Eastern Mediterranean. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have proved that it is done with the privatisations, cancelling your plan for IPTO, reducing the strategic investor to 24% and canceling the plan for IPTO, getting a higher price, because we have a primary concern for public control on energy networks, because that is what production restructuring, labour and investment requires. In this direction we have also completed arrangements for the PPA, with a majority of the public and we expect to see your position. Mr President, on the subject of PPC, the largest energy company in the country, which you systematically despise. That is what you did when we decided on the secession of IPTO. That's what you did when we negotiated the disinvestment. That's what you did when we negotiated bank lending when the stock was under speculative pressure. Now you're choosing to culminate in catastrophe - with what purpose? - in a destructive crescendo, comparing PPC's stock exchange price to that it had when it was united with IPTO, which if we sum up values is 1.1-1,3 billion? Speaking falsely of increasing dues made by your own carpet and of increasing 60% of prices in 2010-2014? The reality is that debts increased by only 30%. You acted as a troika of the interior, in consultation with the outside, and this continues when you refer to the damages of PPC of 2018, but you hide the 400 million damages of 2008, which had an increase in electricity of 12%, the 225 million damages in 2013, but that the damages of 2018 include accounting for the disinvestment of lignite units, the voluntary retirement provision, interest claims and legal outstandings. I wonder, however, what interests you propose with your insistence on selling PPC silverware. We canceled your own destructive scenario of "little" PPC, which had absolutely uncertain revenues and an uncertain future for the mother PPC. The company took hydroelectric potential, with huge costs from the most important renewable resource. Why did you do that? Let me tell you. Because it was a strategic choice of the previous governments, PPC being a forerunner to RES investments in Greece. PPC in 2015 had only 1% of investments in renewable energy sources and had no executive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Famelle, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u171	I'll be done. We would also remind you that you are misinformed when you know that the mood through NOME was included in your "little" PPC plan and in particular the fourth review of 2014. The NOMEs have been a proposal from RAE since 2013. You, free market fans, did not open up the energy market, so we are now paying for all this damage, and you have even announced the end of a measure, which ends in 2019 anyway. We have managed to reduce energy costs, reduce energy poverty, give social invoices, support for industrial and agricultural production, reduce borrowing. We don't close our eyes to major problems PPC has. However, a strong development strategy, with renewable energy sources, has been designed in the Balkans, new products and services in the gas market, emphasising the use of new technologies. And it is not pointless the arrangements that we have prepared for the YGO before 2011, which have been stopped by your own law and have to be covered by the state, as well as the securitisation and debt recovery.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Famelle, you've been talking for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u173	With special interest, we are waiting for your plan for PPC. We have listened with concern to Mr Mitsotakis' position on the privatisation of the networks of the TEN, the only profitable resource. And I ask: How much resources can one efficiently draw from PPC's only fortune, which yields 350 million net annually?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Femmelle, the Bureau will be charged. Don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u175	I'll be done. It's the last page, Mr. President. [[Protests from the New Democracy Ward]] And it will deprive this public benefit by privatising a natural monopoly. And what will be next for PPC and unvalued lending? How short-sighted and anachronistic can your policy be? Mr Ministers, if you choose to combat energy poverty, support productive reconstruction, competitive and sustainable prices, change of energy mix, climate neutrality and fair transition, we will be with you. But if you choose to behave like an internal troika in terms such as "structural measures" and "reconciliation" that we have heard from the other side of the table in "HILTON", we will be across the street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Fotillas from New Democracy has the floor, and then Mr. Papapas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Famelos, obviously, has not understood that he is no longer a Minister. Times are different. He's a congressman. In any case, Mr President, I wholeheartedly wish you, as throughout this House, a good success in our work. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, loyal to its election programme for which the Greek people were voted on on July 7th, took its first steps, both in symbolic but also essential terms: With a plan for the immediate strengthening of the social state, through the recruitment of thousands of doctors and nurses to health and education, with teachers in Special Education. With a sense of security for the citizens, with uniforms, finally patrol the streets of Athens and recruiting new police officers. With a plan to rescue PPC by the Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, a company received by the previous government profitable and delivers it with hundreds of millions of millions of losses. That's the truth, Mr. Famele. All the others are 'other words to be loved'. With concrete actions by the Minister of Development, Mr.Adoni Georgiadis, for the rescue of the company "CRETA FARM" which we have just heard, and for the quickest possible unblocking of the Greek. With Mr Brutsi's plan to speed up the process of awarding hundreds of thousands of pensions, which the previous government did not intentionally promote. By banning the recruitment of relatives and spouses for all members of the government. With a six-month target of the Ministers, they should first be assessed for their work. However, actions were taken even at a symbolic level. Our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, did not receive the expensive 'BMW', those - remember - that Mr. Tsipras would sell in 2015 as soon as he came to power. Furthermore, the cages and MATs from Herod Attica, which were permanently there, have been parked for four years and have been a reproach for democracy. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the country was borrowed from the markets at the unprecedented low interest rate of 1.9%. Furthermore, in his Programming Statements, the Prime Minister put the bar even higher. Promises were made immediately. How did the Prime Minister say? 'Association backwards'. So our commitments to reduce HNVO by 30%, mid-weight, to reduce corporate taxation, but also to greatly improve the regulation of the hundreds of twenty-dollars for debited households and businesses. All the businesses! Are these enough for the country to return to normality and become a modern European country, as the vast majority of citizens want? Obviously not. The battle with misery and populism will be great and has not yet been judged. Already, for example, from the very first moment the Majority, now, has begun to speak about 'the party state of the right'. Of course it is funny to speak SYRIZA meter and denounce the New Democracy for a party state. However, to criticize Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsakalotos for the primary surpluses in the New Democracy, those who voted, applied and celebrated in the end in order to achieve surpluses of 4.5%, that is very much! Nor, of course, did I come as a surprise when Mr Chakalotos, unregulated, agreed from the Step that with Mr Varoufakis on the so-called right-wing agenda. Of course Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Varoufakis have forgotten to tell us that they ruled well, along with the extreme right in Parliament and led the country to the rocks in the first half of 2015! Citizens haven't forgotten. I say to them, however, as in the rest of the opposition which is misguided, that the only agenda that exists by the government is that of the rationale and progress, an agenda that the citizens prevailed on 7 July, sending the populists to the headquarters of Anti-Population, the Greater and the Elassus. And as long as the New Democracy programme is implemented, it will begin to appear the real duplex of the next day in the country. On the one hand, they will be the forces of progress, of truth, of work, of creation and, on the other, they will be the forces of regression, of lies, of populism. The Government of the New Democracy will, of course, be judged on the result. We know that there is no - and we did not want a period of grace, although the situation that the Ministers received in the Ministries is really incomprehensible. However, we have not been elected to sparse ears nor to look for excuses, but to do what we need to improve the lives of our fellow citizens as soon as possible. And we know that what we're going to achieve will be hard and persistent products. Because the miraculous treatments don't exist and the great personal victory of Mr.Mitsotakis was that with weapons of truth and reality he defeated the forces of lies and populism and convinced the Greeks that the real advance comes only with vision, design and hard work. Changes to be made take time and systematic persistent work. We, the Members of the New Democracy, will be present at every moment in Parliament. We will work with the ministers and our Prime Minister for the better implementation of our commitments to the Greek people and there will be when creative criticism is needed to them. We know our government's work will be difficult. The battle against forces that do not want to return to normality will be cruel. After all, the nearly ten-year crisis has been an opportunity to build political career parties and politicians who are still strong. However, no matter how they pursue it, they won't succeed. Greece will move forward. It will become a modern, strong European country that respects and cares for all its citizens. We'll make it. We can do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Pope from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the formation of the government has had two milestones, which marked a change of position for the New Democracy Party. I am referring first of all to the position of Mr Tsouvala in the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, which marks the collapse of the entire propaganda, which was unleashed against our protracted tragedy, and, of course, Mr Mavroy's position as Secretary-General of Sport, along with the statements by government officials on the Macedonian issue. On both issues, I think that an apology could raise the level of political dialogue and political culture. Now, almost all of us are with the Prespes and New Democracy discusses with the Greek Solution whether to sign the referral of Kotzia and Tsipras to the special courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u180	Who? That's a lot of velvet. New Democracy didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u181	Let me tell you that the Programme Declarations confirmed what we, unfortunately, had anticipated in an election. Because the New Democracy has cancelled the reduction of the surpluses we have achieved. The surpluses - and the new Members of the New Democracy also listen to this - had fallen into the pretext of 2.5% with the use of part of the pillow. What comes in and does New Democracy unilaterally? It resets it to 3.5%. Why? To ask for their reduction and start again talking about prerequisites. That's the reality. If anyone understood something from Mr Mitsotakis' position the other day, the tax relief will come if and only there is success in reducing surpluses. The surpluses that we paid for both 2020 and 2021 and for 2022 and New Democracy says they will try to convince them to reduce them for '21 and '22. We're here! If surpluses are not reduced, cuts. I would say to you that this position - because in the Programmatic Declarations it may be easy - makes the debate that will take place in September at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and, of course, in the budget, because nothing can be hidden in the budget. There it will look like what New Democracy will do: both with wages and pensions and with allowances and with public investment and with the tenth pension, with the contribution of solidarity and with the advance payment of tax. There, everything should be measured and clean. And then we won't talk in the air. Allow me, before I go further, to say a few words about the points made by the Minister of Economy. With regard to 'CRETA FARM', look at them, of course, governments must have an active role to play in saving jobs. Watch out, jobs, not property. The property, if they're not willing to put their hand in the pocket, should be left behind. This has been done in the case of SKLAVENIT - MARINOPOULOS, and that is the criterion that will make us fit in such cases. Secondly, the Minister invoked his report on 'IN BUSINESS'. I would tell him to read the introduction where the authors themselves note the weaknesses of the method they use. They say that their research is about one particular city, it is about specific categories of businesses, and therefore it is not possible for all the problems faced by companies to be recorded and evaluated. The country's rankings go up and down four - five positions for all the years of previous government, but there is also a feature in this report. Systemically the Nordic countries at the top of the list are the Scandinavian countries. Systemically. And these are not countries that have embraced neoliberal advances. They have a strong social state, they have strong public intervention, they have strong public networks, and it is this web of policies that shapes you, I would also say, an environment where large investments can and must be made. And because the debate has opened from what we have heard about private audits, notice when and how some of them are being deposited. We'll be here and we'll see the draft law. But also FOLLIE FOLLIE private audit had checked it. And the major American insurance companies, which collapsed, in the past days, have obtained sustainability certificates from the four major sister companies. So there must be a measure here and a very great deal of attention. On the NRP, 103% commitments, 86% of payments, 68% contracts, 30% of expenditure. We have succeeded, because we had a development strategy, ladies and gentlemen, and we do not leave it all to chance, because we did not understand from Mr Mitsotakis' Programmatic Declarations what the development strategy is, for the first time the Greek state to acquire with our own governance a development strategy. For the first time, we have direct foreign investment to break a decade-old record, and for the first time we have the Commission's forecasts to say that we are going to 2020 for the first time, and of course we have also advanced other strategic investments in various sectors. I don't have much time, but we can't come here and say we've received burnt land, gentlemen of the New Democracy. I think this is the first time we have heard this in the debate. In other words, there has been an attempt to zero off a project and I say there is a national development strategy. Thirteen development conferences. National Greek Development Bank. Transparency and rules in development law. Electronic simplification of licensing. We have congratulated the World Bank on this initiative and this function. What are you doing here announcing? What already exists and the global economic community says that we did it well and did it and we did it? We have introduced a new law on strategic investment. We proceeded with the log and the forest maps. We reformed the ESDP. We have created new targeted financial instruments. We have increased expenditure on research in the middle of a crisis of over 1% of GDP and, of course, we have also gone on very large projects for digital transformation and public and entrepreneurship and primary production, and that is precisely because we had priorities and orientation. The development strategy cannot be left to the private sector. The private sector can only serve a few interests, and that is a debate, which we must do with honesty here. Strong public intervention, serious and inappropriate development orientation, are prerequisites for growth to be sustainable and fair, not to be a growth that is flattened in previous years, which simply sets the foundations for the new crises. Finally, it is absolutely clear that the assessment of the past will be in the political arguments. We are talking about them with tension here and the left and right of what has happened in the recent - but from what I understood in the most distant - past, and I would expect that there are statements from the press that the resistance in the junta were mental patients, someone these stalks when they eclipse such extremes to shorten and gather them. Because in possession we had donors and anti-resistanceists, in the junta we also had pigeons and anti-resistances. We weren't just anti-resistance. There were people from the centre-right party who resisted the junta. And thankfully we also saw one of them pulling the ears. We would therefore also expect this from the leadership of the New Democracy. The time we're going to live and the next period will have these kinds of traits. And because it will have the characteristics of implementing policies that we believe will increase social inequalities and it also has a political complement that is dangerous to our democracy, the progressive democratic forces will be faced with the obligation to coordinate their powers. In this obligation, SYRIZA will be a pioneer from the position of Officer Opposition, the most powerful force of the progressive arch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Kamines has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, the first task of the Opposition towards a government is to land it, to protect it from the risk of inexorable euphoria and optimism, often following victory in elections. In the last few days, I have heard many promises in this Chamber and we have heard them with great concern. Unfortunately, the phenomenon of insurmountable optimism was already evident during the election period. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the Prime Minister on 11 June in Patras committing that in the first week of your government you would unlock the investment in Greek with two ministerial decisions? We have just heard that the investment will start by the end of the year and that the decisions are still pending. We all have a duty of truth to the Greek people. Allow me to say that in the case of your party, it will now be stronger because you yourself have been self-sufficient, since you have constantly told us that you are in agreement with the electorate. But this duty of truth is tested above all when it touches the founding core of a political party. And yet, while you claim to be the country's liberal party, you rushed to go directly to the Prime Minister, the Athenian News Agency and the ERT. The liberal answer, ladies and gentlemen, to the chronic problem of ERT's suffocating control by the executive can only now be one, namely the assignment of the appointment of the administration and its supervision in general to an independent authority, in this case at the National Broadcasting Council. It's time to cut off the umbilical cord that connects the state media to the government. Instead of doing this, you should concentrate the control of these instruments on the inner floors of the executive, on the Prime Minister's Office. Besides, you will allow me to make a brief request for university asylum, to dedicate my statement to matters relating to the Ministry of Civil Protection, of which I also have the responsibility for controlling the movement of Change. Of course I agree with the crisis that there are no rights and freedoms without security. But the opposite also applies: without rights there is no security. Because in this case the law of the strongest also prevails. So there is always a sensitive balance point from which we should not be removed from time to time. I pointed this out countless times as Mayor of Athenians when I saw my city surrender to the mercy of the Bolakides. And then I warned that if the state fails to react in time and efficiently as the rule of law, there is a risk that we may perpetuate from lawlessness at the other end, to abolish the guarantees of freedom. So here is the first example of university asylum. The asylum comes immediately from the Constitution, and not only as a guarantee of free university research and teaching, but also as a result of the entire self-employed person - so says the Constitution - of the higher education institutions. The fact that in recent years an unacceptable phenomenon of violence and degeneration has occurred in our universities is not allowed to lead us to the other end. There is an international practice for universities themselves to take responsibility for their custody. That is what we need to do here too. The dean has full civil, criminal and administrative responsibility when he doesn't call the police when he has to. We heard that the Citizen's Department is about to hire a thousand five hundred young people. Some of these, then, after proper training to go to universities. That is the right policy on asylum. But I see the same spirit in prison and immigration issues, and here it hurts hand, it cuts head. We assign all responsibilities to a ministry, to the Ministry of Civil Protection. Migration is not just a question of protecting borders. There are also foreigners who legally reside in the country. The social inclusion of these people presupposes a very complex and long-term strategic plan which in fact involves almost all ministries on a permanent basis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Does anyone seriously believe the relevant Minister's assurance that this titanium project can be successfully undertaken once every month by the secretaries of the relevant ministries? The same spirit, however, presided over the issue of penitentiary stores. I mean, lawlessness really prevails in many prisons in the country. Recently we have seen a pan-Hellenic view of a prisoner being slaughtered by his fellow prisoners. In the three years 2015-2018, thirty-five people died in prisons. Ruvikon, however, made a protest on the rights of Mr. Koufantina, a fierce terrorist killer. Nothing about those people who died in prison. And just the day before that, some poor guy killed himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u184	Have they died or been murdered?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u185	Have they died or been murdered?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u186	They were murdered. But the solution here cannot be the transfer of authority from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection. The fundamental principle of our penitentiary system is the social reintegration of prisoners, and I do not think, of course, that the most appropriate ministry to achieve this is the Ministry of Civil Protection. Ladies and gentlemen, this House closes a historic cycle. Our country has often been on the edge of the cliff mainly because of the irresponsibility of the political system. But he managed to stand up with many, many, great sacrifices. We owe the Greek people, especially those who have been disproportionately burdened, especially young people who are looking elsewhere for their fate, but also those who have remained here, a country that is modern, fair to open economic and political institutions, a country that gives opportunities to which each and every one can create, see its dreams become a reality, to advance. That is our responsibility as a political system and we must respond to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Spirjis from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to wish everyone good productive and health and to thank our fellow citizens, and more so those who have honoured us and gave SYRIZA a very large proportion to be the main expressor of the progressive party. We will respond to our full role as a Civic Opposition. It is human to remember the experiences of 2015 when we were looking for every euro to pay wages and pensions when we fought for fuel in buses and construction sites. The country today is in another era, it seems to have spent a century in every area of social and economic life. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you wholeheartedly good luck. I would like to say that we will not follow the model of your opposition, we will not ask for elections every week, we will not disperse false news, we will not put trillions in and out, but we will be here to support Greek society, social conquests, everything that brought the country out of the memorial to another era and we will remind ourselves of what you said as an opposition. In view of the government's programming statements - I am particularly watching the interior and infrastructure - we are drawing some conclusions. Firstly, in many areas either you do not have an applicable policy plan or you want to hide it. Secondly, you slowly return to reality and you need to do faster because the problems are here and third, there are some first moves and announcements that raise many questions and concerns. Here we are, you'll announce it later. However, the transfer of ERT, the RES and the PPE to the Prime Minister is also negative. It is important and worrying for the struggles of the feminist movement and the rights to transfer the General Secretariat of Equality and the JRC to the Ministry of Labour. Domestic violence, trafficking and trafficking in women, women's participation in decision-making centres are not labour-related issues and will then be shown by operation. We would also like some clarification as the citizens are concerned and are particularly concerned about the Ministry of the Interior in 2014, not 30 years ago. Questions are as follows: Will you place new appointed Secretary-General and will you stop open procedure through ASP? What's the curriculum vitae of the new Secretary-General? Will you abolish the General Secretariats of the Ministries, the Horizontals and put a secretary-general? In what process? With the existing Director-General or with young people you will provisionally appoint, as in 2014? What the total number of partners in government, Secretary-General, etc.Huh? You remember what you told us despite the limitation we had done. Eventually your return actually cancels the announcement of "one to five", that is, a thousand eight hundred intakes per year? We will see it positively to go to 'one by one' and see positively to continue our own planning policy. However, when we promoted what the country needed, you said that we did suffocations and assignments. What will you keep from the major reform areas of SYRIZA and what not? Dear friends, development without sufficient and reliable public sector is not possible. How will the municipalities, ministries, institutions function? We have heard the New Democracy say 'the municipal development agencies'. Without engineers, lawyers, economists, and staffing how to do this? With two engineers per municipality? Your Programming Declarations are gray zones. How will social structures work? What are you going to do with the tens of thousands of contractors? What will you do with the proclamation of three thousand permanent officials for "Help at Home"? They're questions you're going to answer. While there are these problems for local government, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Theodorikos - a sympathetic one - described as the greatest problem as a simple analogue to the municipalities as chaos. When was it tested? In September people start operating with this system. Is that the problem of local government? Is this not an insult to the will of the Greek people in the municipal elections? Are they not mature, are the local councillors elected by the people responsible to decide on their municipality? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] There is another improvement in the procedures - I want two minutes, Mr President - and another circumvention of the democratic expression of the Greek people. And, as we say for simple analogues, we call on the opposition parties to become a principle of co-existence and dialogue to maintain the system of mere proportional representation in the national elections. From today, colleagues of the New Democracy, you have no alibi. You have the vast majority in the municipalities, in the districts, and you have the government. We're waiting for your actions. Same for the garbage targeted by Rena Duru. To know what is happening throughout Greece, what the European framework is, because we have arrived here and what your responsibilities have been since 2015. Two words about the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. I'm not going to talk about our balance sheet. He's big, people know about him, and self-government knows about the highways and the railways, about the floods, about the subway. But we'll get them to be there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I heard Mr. Karamanlis. I'll start with the positive. It is a good thing that we continue our policy and the attitude towards increasing the toll of the Attica road. Please continue our policy for all citizens and the discharge of the citizens of the Municipality of Oropo until the electronic system is completed. It is good that Mr Karamanlis denounced the Karamanlis government for the great discounts in works and in Paraion when the mathematical formula was abolished and we went to absolute moderation. It is good that Mr Karamanlis wants a national strategic transport plan. Let me inform you that it has been done, posted and approved by the European Commission. It has been environmentally and is at the Ministry and must be informed and it is until 2037. It has the vision of becoming Greece an international transport centre. Let's go to negatives. There's no vision, there's no strategy. I heard there was a talk about BOAK and Patras to Tower. And because you also want to say about populism, I will advise that you do not play any more with Crete. There's no techno-economics out a contest for all of BOAK, get up to date. Same as Patras to Tower. We left information notes on all the projects and the government had to know that it has started on five projects - to show them if they can't find them - but there has been one concealment - not one, enough - that the company that has so much muddled us did not get a competition from the four who were a temporary broker, that it is not partition because it has been approved by the European Commission, the Court of Auditors, from everywhere. Of course, you had no funding, no record of great work. In 2014 you had a competition set up with quantities that were distorting and proved then. Don't experiment, in my opinion, with infrastructures for communication reasons, don't panic, you'll deal with it all. Do not cancel the country's credibility in the implementation and completion of projects again. We are too tired to build the country's credibility in this area too. Don't make the same mistakes as the past of your resignation. However - and I am finishing - for both infrastructure and transport, but also for the government as a whole, I hope that, despite the negative first samples, you will deliver more work for the good of the country and the Greek people who judges us all and will judge us all. Good luck to everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u189	For OSTH?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, I will answer because he asked me for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u191	Go on, answer, Mr Colleague, but this must not be the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u192	As far as OSH is concerned, the driving licences, the rings in the OSCE with fake tickets are concerned, neither will we nor the citizens of the decades that we have dismantled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u193	Mr Velopoulos has asked for the floor on personal grounds. Mr. Velopoulou, what does the staff make up?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u194	The Minister referred to Mr Georgiadis in my face, Mr President. Mr. Georgiadis made a little bit of a bump. He's interrogated unparalleled things. Because you can't compare Ferrari to Zastava. Both are cars. He has given us a series of cities, telling us they have no problem because they have skyscrapers. I should therefore like to remind him that, first of all, he diligently avoided talking about the casino. I don't know if he's playing. Some previous ministers were playing at casinos. But I do not believe that casinos are growth, Mr President. Casinos aren't growth. They're stealing the world. It's gambling if we know it well. And there's addiction. I would like to make a comment on this, starting. Secondly, I would like to tell him that for San Francisco, which he said is an earthquake region, there are reports - I have them in front of me - that the two, three skyscrapers - I will leave them in the Minutes to read and the Minister - are already sinking because of the earthquake field. He also told us about Dubai. I didn't know we had forty-two degrees of temperature in Greece, Minister. You messed up a little bit. I talked about the microclimate. I said the skyscrapers are changing the microclimate. He told us about Hong Kong he had skyscrapers. I would remind him, according to a CNN, that it is one of the most polluting cities because of skyscrapers. I would also remind him that the same applies to Shanghai. They call these articles, they're not my words. In conclusion, I would like to say to the Minister this: I have here a series of university studies on the microclimate, where there are skyscrapers. I will present them to you in the Minutes to receive them. This is London, New York, Berlin - and you have a sympathy in Berlin, you in New Democracy - do not forget about other cities. You know what they say? Listen: 'Air speed for 40 km between high buildings can easily reach fifty five kilometers'. Man walks hard at sixty kilometers. "The consequences of high constructions: strong vertical winds, pressure phenomena, strong air holes between buildings, apnea at low parts of structures and pollutants". I'll put it all in the Minutes, Minister. I expect you to read them well, because they're not my studies. You can study them and tell us about the casino. This is a very important matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, I would like the floor to answer Mr Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u196	Wait a minute, Mr. Georgiadis. I will give you the floor to answer, because we have some time. Just for the future of the plenary debate, I must stress that on the basis of Parliament's Rules of Procedure - you know that, you are not first Member - scientific disputes, differences in political positions are not a personal matter. We have time now, however, and we will even talk about how high the skyscrapers have to have, and so on. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, my report did not have any personal character. You are the President of Parliament, I am the Minister of Government, and I have to answer your questions, because I understand the rules of democracy. Instantly, I'm coming to the casino thing. You can disagree with the casino. And it is your right to do so. The decision of the Government - and the previous government - is to be a casino. Are there any concerns about the operation of a casino in Attica? Obviously, there are. That is why it will be under the conditions laid down in European legislation, which, I assure you, has extremely strict limits on addiction and any other social consequences. However, I must tell you that such a casino in such a space is not intended to survive the domestic market. It aims to survive the high-income tourists who will attract this resort. If he stays on the domestic market, it'll be a small and insignificant casino. What goes to be built there is a real pole of tourist development combined with marinas and a hotel. So we're talking about something very big. And yes, Mr President, we have cases of these kinds of cities - I will not go further in order not to conflict - which around a casino have developed very strong economies. We want to do the same in Greek. As far as the skyscrapers are concerned, I think we will not conflict, Mr President, any further. We are talking about two skyscrapers, however, I would like to say that with regard to the cities you mentioned and the speeds of the winds you mentioned - I have seen that you have put a video with a related scientific study - I would like to tell you that for all the issues there may be any kind of scientific study. I remind you that we are in a country where Vovos and Panathinaikos were destroyed for a so-called cormorant who was never found. But I'm telling you, yes, all the big developed economies on the planet are building skyscrapers. What can we do now? If you want to govern and say "It is forbidden by Velopoulos and the Greek Solution of the skyscrapers", it is a very interesting issue to put it in your government program. We, Mr President, allow skyscrapers and we have no problem with them. And if someone's having a walker problem because there's gonna be a skyscraper, we're gonna go there and help him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u198	It's always very pleasant - and I only say it out of humor - to hear two philosophers talk about civil engineering projects. Aren't you a philosopher, Mr. Velopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u199	History - Archaeology I studied, Mr. President. Mr. Georgiadis forgot about the Acropolis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u200	We continue with the list of speakers. Mr Leonidas Stoltides has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last night, the Minister of Labour, known from the old ones with unforgettable successes, such as the reduction of wages by 22% and 32% by legislation, but also the theft of billions by the insurance funds that gave them to the banks with the famous "cut" of the PSI defended the dirt and stench of the well-known leader group of GSEE which the workers called it "the trade union mafia". Electronic voting and electronic registers will obviously not improve workers' claimive trade union activity, will not prevent employers and legitimate representatives from participating in labour procedures. The hypocritical reference to democratic processes conceals hatred for the active and direct involvement of workers in mass collective processes and forms of struggle which they choose to use each time. The New Democracy is stepping on the strikeable law brought by the SYRIZA government that has all voted for it together in the House. It is the law that makes it difficult for trade union action and the conditions for a strike notice, it strikes working class at the primary level of organization within the company, that is, where employers' terrorism is more pronounced, arbitrariness, threats and pressures are expressed. The GSEE then and with a statement from its president that the strike has eaten its bread, not only refused to make a decision on a strike, trying to impose cemetery silence, but at the same time it did. In his statements yesterday, the Minister wanted to intervene with the good day in the procedures of the trade union movement. We make it clear in our turn and we'll be early: don't dare. Labour relations have been overturned by the laws that have been passed by governments, especially during the crisis. It is a strategic choice of the European Union of capital and governments serving them. These overthrows have no end. The balloting campaign between SYRIZA and the New Democracy tried to hide the commitment that all parties in the third memorandum to expand and liberalise the seven-day operation of the branches and businesses that are allowed to operate to date seven days. It is a overwhelming blow to what has been left of labour rights and a eruption of the exploitation of the establishment by SYRIZA of the collective labour contract at hotels for continuous work throughout the season, the opening of shops thirty-two Sundays a year, the 12-hour work of hospital doctors, the job for up to twelve consecutive days. The sectoral collective agreements which shape the conditions of pay and work of workers and which constitute a conquest of the labour movement have been overturned by the Memorandum of Understanding and the commitments to the business groups. The New Democracy, with the same Minister of Labour, Mr Brutsi, had legislated to abolish them. It followed SYRIZA's gift to employers' associations to not be able to register members, thus blocking the expansion of a sectoral collective labour contract or to stay out of a collective labour contract of thousands working in flexibility: rental contractors, workers in various subsidiaries. The Government of New Democracy will find against the labour movement and its claims, it will find against the branches and the struggle for the signing of sectoral conventions. Despite reduced demands, the disillusionment of workers, the Communist Party of Greece will take the lead in order to inspire and contribute to the reorganisation of the movement that will organise the fight against anti-terrorist policy to recover losses, to demand modern needs. Our party will prevent any interference in the movement, as it has done in the past. The Communist Party of Greece will give all its forces to organise the counter-attack of the working people's movement, to strengthen the alliance towards their monopolies and power. Submission won't pass. The class struggle will strengthen until the working class is freed from the dictatorship of capital. And a word about the seafarers. What the Minister for Maritime Affairs of the New Democracy and the representative of SYRIZA has said is extremely challenging, because seafarers work in terrible working conditions, intensified, without protection measures for their lives, without collective labour agreements, with rampant wages and pensions, with an unemployment that breaks bones. The Government of New Democracy, on the road of SYRIZA, also serves the interests of logistics with huge tax exemptions and carvings on the people. There is huge profitability and fleet growth from over-exploitation of seafarers throwing them out of ships. Your policy maintains maritime training in military status, degraded, away from the needs of students. That is why we tell the representatives of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Government's Change Movement to leave the rot. The Communist Party of Greece will continue the struggle with the seafarers, as will the rest of the workers in the other sectors. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, too. I will now tell you how the debate will continue. I will give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Hatzidakis. Then Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Tsakalotos will be given the floor for three minutes each. Then Mr Arsenis will speak, then the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pikrammenos, and then the heads of the parties will contrary. That will be the process. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, you said that you would only be having a circle and we would not be talking to the representatives, but after you have put a second round, we will also have the floor for a few minutes, after colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u204	For two-three minutes, I have no objection to the parliamentary representatives speaking, since they want to speak before their heads.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u205	I didn't want to, but after you gave the floor to the two...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u206	I have three minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u207	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u209	There is no question, after all, will be chaired by Mr Tasoulas who is capable of this. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this will be an unprecedented speech, because due to the lack of time I will try to concentrate on the essentials and as the issues I have to deal with are a lot of interest, I would ask for a tolerance so that the Greeks can be informed as fully as possible what the intentions of the Government are. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I will begin with the issues of environment and planning, which I must say I will not be as detailed as I would wish, precisely because of the limitation of time. Anyway, I'll try to do the best. As a Ministry, our central axis is, of course, turning to a model of sustainable development. To this end, we are adopting a holistic approach that will enable us to contribute to tackling climate change - we would be elsewhere as a government if we did not see this issue - and to catch up to the objectives of the European Union and of course the Paris Agreement. We pay particular attention to green investment, to the promotion of eco-innovation and to the creation of many thousands of new quality jobs in this sector, because it is time to realise that environmental protection can become a catalyst for growth rather than an obstacle. In fact, some of the major projects to which the Prime Minister referred relate largely to our ministry. At the same time, we are promoting the transition to the circular economy, namely a model of production and consumption based on the reuse and recycling of materials. This shift beyond the positive impact on the environment, we know from recent studies that it can create sixteen thousand jobs in Greece in the near future. In this context, unfortunately, we know that in recycling our country's performance was and remain disappointing. Despite the previous government's announcements, recycling has been stuck in the past four years at 18%, while the Community target is 50% of the year and the Community average is now 46%. I think we are only over two other Community countries. The necessary step to reverse this situation is to promote intensively the sorting at source in separate currents, starting with the promotion of coffee bins, as most environmental organisations, namely the bins for organic waste, are supporting, which we will pay particular attention to. I want to focus on the plastic pollution that particularly affects our seas. As the Prime Minister has said, Greece has the possibility of becoming a pioneer in the Mediterranean in the battle against plastics, and we will pursue this by adopting the relevant European directive. The Prime Minister's reference to the abolition of disposable plastics by 2021 is clear. We also know that an issue of the utmost importance is integrated waste management, focusing particularly on public-private partnerships in cooperation with the Ministry of Development. As Minister, I had personally contributed to such initiatives, such as in Epirus, Serres, Elias, in western Macedonia. I am really sorry that the former District Minister of Attica has canceled projects in the largest region of the country, and so now in Epirus, for example, or in western Macedonia, the issue has been resolved, while in Attica we are threatened with garbage hills. In this same subject we are considering the application of efficient energy techniques to recover energy from waste, so that we are at the forefront of innovation, adopting good practices from countries such as Finland, for example, because there are ideas in our country even today that ignore what is happening in the other advanced European countries. One issue we are focusing particularly on is the major delays in environmental permits that are an important obstacle to attracting investment, including renewable energy sources. We have prepared a bill on this, which I assume will be incorporated into the government's broader development bill on simplifying and speeding up procedures under the relevant European directive. At the same time, we are rapidly promoting the completion of the register, for which, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I recognise that progress has been made. We also pay particular attention to the protected areas, particularly the NATURA areas, which can be models of sustainable development. In the forests we focus on the completion of forest maps, for which steps have been taken towardswards, speeding up opposition-solving processes and setting out the specifications for modern anti-nuclear designs. In our spatial planning and town planning, the main objective is sustainable spatial development. We are launching the immediate dismantling of flagial investments that are unduly delaying, such as the Greek one. We are moving towards a radical simplification of the legislation and the planning and licensing procedures and defining land uses throughout the country, so that everyone knows where to conduct a specific activity with legal certainty. We're not staying on some theoretical announcements. To this end, we will implement a programme for the development of local spatial projects, in other words, at municipal level, aimed at covering more than 70% of land use at the end of the four-year period. I move on with the issues of international energy policy at the top of the agenda of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Our main aim is to optimise the country's energy security, as today we have full dependence on imported hydrocarbons, which cover more than 2/3 of our energy balance. I repeat they are imported hydrocarbons. We will change this with the infrastructure and the assistance of our energy partners to maximise the diversification of sources and routes in the import of hydrocarbons beyond the development of renewable energy sources, which we will also pursue dynamically. This includes the completion of the IGB and its long-term IGB, the connector, i.e. with Bulgaria, the promotion of new infrastructure for the introduction of LNG, liquefied gas, private investments such as the so-called FSRU in Alexandroupolis and the underwater gas tank in Kavala, the promotion of IGI Poseidon and the implementation of the East Med pipeline, in addition to the consolidation of our strategy of cooperation with our traditional energy importers. We are further deepening our strategic synergies towards south-eastern and paradoxical Europe, with emphasis on four-way cooperation with Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria, and on the other hand towards the south-eastern Mediterranean and further regional cooperation at institutional level with Cyprus, Israel and Egypt. I will be in Cairo tomorrow, in the presence of the American Energy Minister, to discuss exactly these issues. For us energy is also foreign policy, as we seek Greece to become a pillar of stability, security and prosperity within an unstable region. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the most urgent issue, which is, of course, PPC's rescue plan. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL reached the company to the limits of the collapse. You have abandoned the model of small parallel PPC by reducing its initial size by 1/3, as well as the resulting cash flow into the company's fund, so that it can move and finance its investments. And you agreed, what? This is where the numbers speak. It's real. You agreed to reduce PPC's market share from 90% to 50% without PPC having the slightest financial consideration. Since 2015, the company's executives have been working to lose customers. This is an extremist arrangement by which you have brought the company into extremity. With the infamous NOMEs, that is, the electricity auctions adopted by the SYRIZA Government, the company is working to reduce its customers for whose benefit? Its competitors, the great interests against which you bailed and bailed, as it is forced to sell below costs with losses that have been cumulatively totalling all these years, the years of SYRIZA, due only to the auctions reach and exceed EUR 600 million. This is SYRIZA's cost to PPC. The company's share lost over your day over 80% of its stock exchange value. I put the relevant table in the Minutes so that there are no doubts in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u211	But a piece's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u212	Some reason will be that 80% of its stock exchange value has been lost, while respectively, Mr Tsakalotos, in ELPE or EYPD, which you were also the government, did not happen the same, because obviously PPC did so. And that's undeniable. If I do not convince you, I would like to tell you what has happened in the last few days, after the European elections. PPC came down from 7 euros to 1.3 euros in SYRIZA. Since May 23, when the price was at EUR 1.3, to date the price has gone to 2.4. That is, from 1,3 euros to 2,4 today. There was an increase due to the prospect of victory and victory of the New Democracy, the formation of the Mitsotakis Government about 80% to 90%. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And that's not what I can afford to combine with a comment I hear often and did it by the Prime Minister, that Hatzidakis, who dealt with "Olympic", resented "Olympic" - the deception was that we stopped paying a million a day, of course, this is the depreciation of "Olympic" - and the same will devaluate PPC. But since I've been Minister of Energy and made these statements about PPC's situation, the price has been rising. How do you explain it? It is precisely because the markets, the investors, have confidence in the new New Democracy government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I'm continuing with the lignite plants if you don't get the NOMEs and the stock exchange value. Some considered them as PPC’s jewels when the SYRIZA Government began its privatisation process. Ladies and gentlemen, two attempts were made on SYRIZA to privatise lignite plants and no interest was found. And no interested one was found the second time there was no threshold down. It was a special procedure agreed with the committee if they were to be sold. No lignite plant was sold, why? Because they are obviously completely deceived and someone has been ruling the country for the last four and a half years. Doesn't that convince you? I'll tell you about the sworn accountant. PPC's listed company. We therefore have the report of ERNST & YOUNG, the annual report of 2018, issued a few months ago, which self-evidently states that this situation of the company leads to a "important doubt about the company and the group's ability to continue its activities". In other words, the auditor is speaking openly about the company's viability problem. What more do you want to convince that PPC is in a tragic situation? Here is the report by the auditor of the ‘ERNST & YOUNG’, which I submit in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] SYRIZA must therefore sit and consider its responsibilities for the disastrous agreement of half PPC, to apologise to consumers and taxpayers, not cause the intelligence of Greeks and Greeks, claiming that PPC has no problem. The next step is to claim that I am not Kostis Hatzidakis. Well, at some point we have to agree on elementary things! Ladies and gentlemen, it is the situation in PPC that I have presented. That is why, at this moment in time, there is no strategic investor despite our desire. The small PPC scenario cannot function. A plan of good and bad PPC cannot be implemented, because taxpayers cannot pay the cost of a poor PPC that would be about PPC 5 billion over the next few years. So what remains is a plan to rescue PPC. For my part, I can assure you that, on the basis of the directives of Prime Minister Mitsotakis, I have come here to help save PPC for the benefit of consumers, workers, business and the national economy. This is why the PPC's rescue plan we have drawn up goes on two lines: on the one hand, the firm's support measures, on the other hand the restructuring measures. With regard to the support measures, firstly, we, unlike the half of Mr Tsipras's PPC, will strive for a larger and strong PPC, we will negotiate for PPC to grow up, to raise its share, because only in this way can it perform its development role, because 50%, which you agreed, means that it must lose in four years four million customers, four million consumers. This was SYRIZA and this is New Democracy. Secondly - and it is very specific - we seek, ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of the NOMEs, the abolition of those auctions in which PPC produces expensive and cheaply sells, below its cost, by actually working in favour of competitors and the various interests that you are complaining of every three and a little. These, the government of Mr. Mitsotakis, will abolish them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thirdly, we ensure that, in the most appropriate way, the question of charges for general interest services is closed and that this money is paid to PPC, because they will be a significant injection of liquidity where the company has arrived. Fourthly, we shall do the same after consultation with the European authorities and with the resources so-called 'proof of availability', which must also be directly attributed. Fifthly, we encourage PPC's transition to renewable energy sources, for environmental reasons, but also to support the company itself because of developments with the carbon dioxide market and the security of energy supply. Be careful, ladies and gentlemen, which impressed me when I saw the evidence. The market share that PPC currently owns, with a government that flagged the environment, in renewable energy sources, you say? It's 2.9%. The country's main electricity company in renewable energy sources has a degradingly low rate! And then SYRIZA moves the finger. There has been no investment in the RES, no substantial investment in the past five years. Secondly, alongside PPC's transformation programme, we are launching the transfer of the fixed assets of PPC's distribution to the IEDC. The aim is, as the Prime Minister has said, the partial privatisation of the TEN, with the attraction of reliable investors specialising in networks. This will show the hidden value of the TEN and PPC will have a clear cash benefit from its partial privatisation. Thirdly, we are rationalising PPC's pricing policy. But be careful. The support for PPC's revenues will be entirely balanced for consumers, on the one hand through the recent reduction in value added tax - actually made by the previous government - and, on the other hand, by further reductions in EMFF, namely the money paid by consumers for renewable energy sources, because the EMFF's account has been estimated to have a surplus of about EUR 200 million. So PPC is being strengthened by adjusting tariffs, but consumers will not ultimately be charged to the bills they will pay and this is a government commitment. This is how the literature of all the last days ends!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u213	Minister, do you have a picture of how many minutes you'll need?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u214	A little, Mr. President. I'm towards the end of my speech. Fourthly, we are faced with structural weaknesses in PPC, moving towards targeted voluntary staffing outlets to solve essential problems in the management of human resources and to have a fair transition to the new era. Fifthly, we are strengthening the company's liquidity, chasing big fish and collecting from strategic poor payers. Only sixty thousand consumers owe about 800 million to the company. For our socially weak fellow citizens, there will always be special care, in line with the European Union's practices. At the same time, the debt securitisation is under way, another significant liquidity injection to the company. All this is part of a new business plan of the company, which will of course be implemented by the company's new management, which will be defined on the basis of all legal procedures within the week, I hope. This whole business plan will be in line with the company's gradual transition to the post-lignite era. So these are the support measures and the resolution measures that we are launching for PPC. That's the bet for us. Of course, our energy policy is much wider, and this includes further privatisation of IPTO, liberalisation and strengthening of the energy market, speeding up the recovery of hydrocarbons - so we will immediately bring to Parliament new contracts for the four areas which are remaining - to deal with the ELPE in consultation with the IPTO, the demilitarisation of the IPTO, the exploitation of our mineral and mineral wealth, with emphasis in the case of the Halkidiki Skouri, where we prioritise, the policies on electricity, accumulators and energy savings with new programmes, alongside 'Security at home', the strengthening of the RES market and the completion of the electricity interconnections on the islands, particularly in Crete, where I can assure that it will be carried out in any way that it is most appropriate, but in any event as soon as possible. We had a blackout in Lassithi ten to fifteen days ago. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the main lines of our environmental and energy policy. I have not talked to you with cosmic surnames, I have tried to present you with the essence of our policy. We follow modern European policies and try to deal with problems not by magical recipes, but by a spirit of common sense. Above all, you know that we will deal with all these problems with a spirit of healthy patriotism. Rescuing PPC is ultimately an offer to our country, but being present in the modern energy market is also our national duty. However, the same task with our children is, above all, a policy of sustainable development in relation to the environment and regional planning. That is our policy and this policy we are committed to implementing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u215	It has been agreed with the Bureau to speak with some of the parliamentary representatives who have asked for the floor, at most for a three-minute period. I would ask that this be observed, starting with Mr Loverdo, who asked for it first. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is not the time, with the Chamber full, to address the Minister, as we could have done if he had spoken earlier. So I do not want to abuse the time and patience of colleagues. However, I would like to confine myself to two questions. One is addressed to the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis and the other one to the other Minister who spoke a moment ago, Mr Georgiadis. We have read in the past few days about PPC and we have now heard the Minister talk about partial privatisation of the networks. Mr. Hatzidakis, the privatisation of the networks means privatising the supply of electricity to the customers of the company. Yesterday in his speech Mr Arvanitides, having regard to this philology, wondered how this would be done. You're gonna divide the country into four, two? How? Partial privatisation for someone, such as us, who is reluctant to privatise the networks, and who, if I remember the plan of small PPC, did not include it, does require us to ask you how you thought about it. Of course, more analysis will be carried out in the Committee on Production and Trade, where you must convene with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Because if PPC slips, PPC slips the country's credit system. It is the big problem of this country. That is where we will have the opportunity to discuss more invigoratingly. Mr. Georgiadis, you spoke of the NRW. You have brought me to mind Mr Constantinople in this Chamber, against the ministers of the previous government, to record the weaknesses in the implementation of the ESDP. He was shaking your party back then. He wasn't talking in this room. The government presented its own indicators and Mr Constantinople provided the indicators with the criteria you said: Absorbability, in the sense of payment and compromise, not generality. You referred to a painting showing us in the nineteenth place. The previous government was costing something better. But you didn't testify. I would ask you very much to submit this to us, so that we know what we are talking about and what we will be talking about in the next few months. Finally, you referred to the great problem of the Greek economy which is licenses. I remember in 2013 our own government that we managed to fail. I remember in 2016 a minister of a few months who had a feature, ladies and gentlemen. He could do two things at the same time and sleep and sleep. We told him that you could not talk to us about the abolition of licences without mentioning the start of business. So you, here today, have again made a reference to how much an entrepreneur will substantiate his prospects with what you have organised, but you have not said a word about the company's authorization. The key point for this Chamber for six years is authorisation, it is not licensing, which can be granted, but authorisation is not granted and needs a series of subsequent actions. Therefore, you should also refer to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u217	I propose that the ministers in general reply to the Members of Parliament in order to facilitate our call to the Heads of State or Government. Mr. Chakalotos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. I would like a small tolerance, because I was inexperienced, and I was the only one to speak for ten minutes, and I did not exhaust the five-minute and three minutes, while the others spoke for eighteen minutes. Just for that, one or two more minutes. Mr. Hatzidakis, I would like to discuss PPC, but without distortions. In 2015 was PPC along with IPTO and you cannot compare PPC's price on the money market with its financial value now in 2019, because these are completely different things. It's not right what you're doing. Its financial value was 1.2 billion and now is 1.5 billion. So that's not right. As it is not right to talk about RES when there was neither a consultant for RES for your days nor when there was no business plan, so we can discuss it. Mr President, there are many things I have not understood since the three days of the debate. I do not understand what the government sees as a budget area for 2020. I did not understand how much you think they cost your tax measures announced by the Prime Minister for 2020. I have not understood what costs our own expenditure will be and what costs will not be left, for example, for the pension we have given. I did not understand your own expenditure that you promised who would stay. Mrs Michailidou, for example, told us that the EUR 2 000 is valid for every child - not said by the Prime Minister in his speech - but that the recruitments for the 'Help at home' programme also apply. So I don't know either on the tax side or on the cost side, and I don't know what you think you can spend 2020. In other words, I do not know whether a promise is a new expenditure, or whether it has to be levelled and there is someone else who is being cut. I hope we have some briefing on this. In order not to think, however, like Mrs Michailidou, that we of SYRIZA, in addition to a psychological deficit, have an intelligence deficit, to tell you what I understood. I understand that suppression, law and order are your basic principle. In fact, every MEP who wanted to get a handful of applause was saying something about the law, the Ruvikon, the prisons, and took a big handshake, far more than any other proposal. But I also understood a second thing about classics. For the last two years, every time I was talking about class bias, you told me how unacceptable this is and that we are all Greeks and we all have to go together and what these are about class bias. For the first economic measure, as far as I understand it, which will come to the House, for HNPH, you are abolishing the 10% we have given and you will give 20% more. Good news so far. What are the bad news? That a poor fortune in Peristeri will earn 100 euros, but for over a million we did not give anything to the fall, they will earn 600 euros of it. That's class policy. And I'm ending up with the following thoughts about class bias. As far as classics are concerned, not to say toxicity, neither did Alexis Tsipras nor I nor our parliamentary group deserve to tie up the shoe of one of Mr Mitsotakis' s shoe as far as your class policy is concerned. That's why I'm absolutely sure he'll hear that. We'll see a class bias that we've never seen before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u219	Mr Lebanese, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, our civil courtesy does not allow us to go into this analysis of classics, Mr Tsakalotes, because most of us did not understand it and I think the Greek people do not understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u221	She'll understand it, you'll be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u222	Here we go. Don't go away, I want to tell you something else you said the other day, Mr. Chakatte. I think that the debate on the safe navigation of the Bureau has gone extremely well, in a mild climate, with some minor exceptions. I hope that the fruitful dialogue that has taken place - many Members have spoken - has spoken almost all those who have asked for the floor, except those who have been elected for the first time - will let us all get out of here with good impression on the one hand and, on the other, with more advanced thoughts and not leave with exactly what we came in this Chamber. The government had a practice that was very obvious. It has succeeded in bringing together the political dimension, the development vision and the technological approach of its programme. Regardless of whether there are other views - and these are acceptable - very specific programmes have been tabled and contrary to what Mr Spirtz said, and operationally where necessary. The criticism of deficits in the Prime Minister's first speech is clearly unjust. The Programming Declarations - and we all understand that after three days - are all judged at the end. So now that all the ministers have spoken, it is now clear that there is a deficit in what Mr Mitsotakis said on the first day. So this criticism was unjust and premature, but perceived for the needs of Anti-Population. I will only turn to a political peak which will not be answered by the ministers who will respond to what the two parliamentary representatives have said before and, of course, will not be answered by the Prime Minister. Most of the main political speeches I have heard these three days, and in particular Mr Tsakalotou's first speech, which despite his own civil courtesy, did not want to hear what I wanted to say to him, they had one, in order to use Mr Tsipras' expression, internally. They were practically not addressing us, but at the audience of SYRIZA. They were purely left-wing speeches not only about us, but about society as a whole. But the intrinsicity of democracy as a single element of the Left, against our own party, is not acceptable. So the accusation for undemocraticity of our resignation is returned as it came. Principles and values, struggles for democracy are not monopolized by anyone. Our prolongation and its people were, are and will be a key pillar of this Hellenic Republic. With regard to the denounced for you, which has indeed been said and which is our basis: "First we will put order in our home", Tsakalotos said so, "but the house in order," he said, as if we were in Belgravia, London, it seems right, bad, anachronistic. So we respond with faith and pride to you that both in our villages and in Messolongi where I come from and in all the villages of Greece I think the "house in order" also wants Greeks and Greeks. All householders, labour people, democratic and, above all, the reasonable citizens of this country, but also other countries, understand what you do not understand, that first you take care of your home and then you come out of it to ask for the above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u223	And we close with the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Gregoriadis, from the Mera25 Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, I too have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u225	You will take the floor immediately after Mr. Gregoriadis. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, having the honour of speaking here for the first time in our national Parliament, I dared one - one - to say - a blasphemous comparison. I liked this sacred place where we are all with a huge theatre where in the last ten years, I said, almost exclusively the theater of irrationality is played. "Before speaking three," twenty minutes after finishing my speech, he made sure that I fully confirmed my allegations by the MP of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantopoulos, saying in front of everyone that Mr Varoufakis is responsible - along with SYRIZA, of course, he did not say that he was alone - for the third and most commendable memorandum that our country has lived in. I note only that, as you all know, Mr Varoufakis has never voted for this memorandum, while Mr Constantopoulos' party - you can imagine, you all know that - he well voted for this third memorandum, as the second one had passed, as the party from which Mr Constantopoulos' party came and the first memorandum that was the cause of all this disaster that we are living. That was the first thing I wanted to say. The second thing I would like to say is that I am following, for one thing, amazed, at least, ministers, remarkable people who have a great deal of knowledge on their agenda three - four days now to describe in detail their multi-faceted, ambitious, multi-faceted plans for the next four years and I wonder: Has anyone not told them that these are decisions that will be made outside Greece, as to whether I mean all these projects? And I wonder about it with a very serious argument to support it. As you all know, there is no financial space for all these projects to be implemented. So this financial area where it will be found, after the government has already committed itself that the rupture is something to which it will never dare arrive? Without a break, there is never a chance that this financial area will be found. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to close by saying that I remembered the saying of the forefather of Greece's conservative party, the great Konstantinos Karamanlis, that I also have the feeling today that the whole country is slowly changing to a vast madhouse. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Villardo, wait a minute to make an announcement and you will immediately be given the floor. Two letters from the President of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis came to the Bureau. The first one says: "I know you that the Parliamentary spokesman for the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is Mr. Lebanese Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) and his Deputys: Bugas John, Bukoros Christos and Raptis Zoe." And a letter again to the Bureau of the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Mitsotakis Kyriakos: "I know that you are Deputy Secretarys-General from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group are the following Members: Iatridis Tsabika (Mika), Karamanlis Anna, Keletsis Stavros, Kelles Christos, Sedetakis Maximos and Tsavdaridis Lazaros". These letters will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u228	I would ask Mr Villardo to take the floor as Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will not go into what the ministers have said, because it is better to judge them than they do, in other words, later on, and not by the words they have said. We have already heard too much 'will', many promises, so I think it would be better to wait, as will the rest of us. I therefore prefer to refer to what I forgot last time, which I did not really have time to complete last time, some of the solutions proposed by the Greek Solution for Greece, so that it can escape the crisis. One of them is a state balance sheet so that citizens know, on the one hand, what they have in their possession and, on the other, what they have to do, not just what they have to do. This balance sheet would be well founded on the Internet so that citizens are always informed, as if I remember only one country in New Zealand. The second is a bilingual accounting system in the public sector, with international accounting standards, so that we do not ask ourselves whether or not the debts presented by the State are actually or not. The third and most important is the stopping of privatization. Privatisation must be stopped immediately, not because we are against it, but because we believe that companies first have to regain their real value and then sell it to the state. Of course, public-private enterprises, such as PPC, HSDAP and other companies, must be excluded. The next one is the adoption of the American system of revenue and expenditure for taxation. We believe that it is a much more honest system and that it can be taxed more fairly. The fifth piece is the abolition of documents, because the documentary tax we all know is too unfair. Next is to limit the tax code to fifty - sixty pages, as is the case in advanced countries so that the businessman can understand his accounts. Next we have the reduction of the tax advance to 50%. The 100% New Democracy left should not do so, so it should be reduced immediately to 50%. 100% tax advance is excessive. The suspension of HOPI for buildings that are not rented should then be decided on for the period not rented. It is not fair that the owner pays for a property that he has not rented. Then, we have the establishment of a red loan management agency, such as the United States in 1933 with an agency which managed the problem very well, solved it and then twenty years later the company closed off with profits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, we consider it fair and should be imposed: when the owner, who owes his home, delivers it back to the bank, because he cannot pay the instalments, then the rest of his loan must be zeroed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u230	The parliamentary representatives will answer two ministers from the government, Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Georgiadis, from two minutes each, starting with Mr Hatzidakis. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u231	Two brief answers, first of all to Mr Loverdos: Mr Loverdos, what we are proposing for the TEN is made in most European countries. There are different models. PPC will obviously be placed privatization consultants who will propose solutions to maximise the benefit of PPC. Obviously this is done in order to support the company, to strengthen its liquidity, to be able to move forward. And, of course, it will have no effect on consumers. These distributors are collecting a toll that is regulated by the RAE, so I told you in many European countries, and that is why the model of IPTO that went on to SYRIZA is the way it went. The 2014 model, the Small PPC, cannot be applied, because in 2014 PPC won 90,000,000 euros. Today PPC has damages of 900,000,000 euros, we must seek crazy people to come and take PPC as it is, whether it is in favour of privatisation or against privatisation. And I'm moving on to Mr. Chakalotos. Mr. Chakalato, I tried to be fair. I spoke alone about the register and the progress it had and Mr Famelos sits next to you, who was at the Ministry that was responsible for Mr Stathakis. I talked about forest maps, where progress was also made. I have no reason to hide it and I am glad that it existed, because I have fewer problems with this. In PPC, what happened doesn't fit human mind. In other words, this model of agreeing to fall from 90% to 50% of the market in five years, with zero euros in exchange and with employees working to lose customers does not exist as a global precedent. It'll be written in the records books of Ginas. In fact, even now that I'm saying it, I'm kind of surprised once again. I understand that you have the unpleasant task of defending a policy that you yourself have obviously not handled, but there is no reason to insist on the time it goes down from 90% to 50% without financial compensation, that its share lost over your days over 80%, that the lignite plants were not sold, that Ernst & Young, the sole auditor, came out and spoke openly for sustainability. Hey, what else can we talk about? I think it is better in political life, when we make some mistakes, to admit them, to support the right and wrongs to try and correct them. Doesn't make any sense, Mr. Chakaloto. This story that PPC doesn't have a problem and it's in Hatzidakis' imagination, I'm sorry, but it's beyond any logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u232	Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for two minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr Loverdos, as far as the ESDP table is concerned, I did not submit it, because I said it - perhaps it was not heard - that it was my notes on the basis of any information I had from the agency. They're going to ask me a written question and I'm going to submit the official table from the agency. The position of Greece today is position 19 in absorption, because the previous government did two things. First, it presented all the programmes it had put into the NRP as absorption. One of these, 58% has legal commitments, i.e. contracts, while 42% has no legal contracts, is completely in the air and has used the extra amount of extra advance payment that Greece has exceptionally received for budgetary reasons as a absorption indicator and thus uploaded absorption and said it is in the first place. We're in position 19. That's the official service response. We're too low and there's only three years left. We're talking about a big failure to talk seriously. As far as the authorization you have just said is concerned, you are absolutely right. I, because I do not want to make easy impressions either in this House or in public opinion, and because I am a practical man, in fact the law that we will bring in August will have a very high speed in terms of licensing. There has already been a reduction in the time of authorisation in Greece, but the reduction will be made even more, because we will go to GEH on automatic recording by pressing a button, and then we will be checking by the Chambers and so on. Does this solve the real start of an operation, which is your question? I'm coming first, and I'm telling you, no. I, for example, sat down in the last few days and called people who in the last few days went to IKE in Greece, because I want to know today what the real start of a business is. For example, I have learned - and it is a matter that I put it tomorrow to the head of the banks with which I have a meeting - that to get the POS, which is necessary to start an IKE, you want thirty-five to forty days. So what am I supposed to do about getting permission in four or five or six days, when the operation actually takes forty and fifty days to work? So you're absolutely right. But I am already telling you, as an expeditant, that we have launched a plan to reduce these times too. I am not interested in doing what Mr Famelos did, who came and said, "We had made it all and it's ready." Go on, Mr. Famele, and make a business and press a button and find the uses of land in every region of Greece. In the last ten days of my life, I have a line of investors in Greece who can't make a difference at no point how they get permission. I've been working half the day of my life for this. Mr. Femellos came and told us how nice the system works. It doesn't work well, Mr. Famele. In order not to challenge the House, make an investment tomorrow to see what the reality is in Greece. Repeat, not to be fooled by each other. To Mr Tsakalotos, Mr Minister, with interest we have a good, high-level ideological debate. You have declared a marxist. I respect it. Obviously, I disagree. Is it possible for you to accuse us of traveling? You yourself as Tsakalotos along with Mr Katrugalos - I do not see the other Cappadakis - you put that whoever made EUR 20,000 in Greece, tax, advance payment and EFKA to pay EUR 17 000, i.e. living with about 300 euros a month. Prepayment of the tax, tax and EVA, just to keep him less than 3,000 euros in fact. You are the most classic minister who passed from Greece, in the history of Greece, since the establishment of the Greek state. So, if you'll excuse me, but we - and we've said it from the very beginning - are coming for all the Greeks. The growth we dream about is for all Greeks. Nobody's gonna stay behind. Everyone will gain from Greece's progress. That's our will. Now, as far as Mr Gregoriadis is concerned, I don't have to say anything. You're talking there between you two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u234	Members of the party of Mera25 Mr. Kriton Arsenis are called at Step, with whom the circle of Members is appallingly closed, reaching the number 108.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, may I clarify something to the Minister for a few seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u236	Mr Arsenis has been given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Hatzidakis, there is currently this ping-Pong with SYRIZA about whether it is a deficit or not and how PPC became. I don't understand. It's like he's hiding. Wouldn't you privatize her, whether it was a deficit or a surplus? Ladies and gentlemen, in Mera25 we believe that there should be a high priority in this House for legislation to deal with climate change. You'll all tell me that yes, we agree on climate change. But how do we tackle climate change? Hydrocarbon extraction? Doing what's causing her? Isn't there a contradiction? Isn't that hypocritical? You tell me we could mine them and sell them to others to burn them. Isn't that hypocritical? You must choose: The treatment of climate change or the extraction of hydrocarbons. We know very well what you'll choose. But don't talk about climate change. Don't talk about environment. You're telling us that the investments in the hydrocarbons mining are contagious. He said Mr. Hatzidakis would promote them. The mining of gold - as Mr Hatzidakis said - and the Greek is indeed emblematic. They're flagrant for the destruction of the environment. They are emblematic about the minimum revenues in the public funds. They're contagious about the cost in the local economy. Mr Hatzidakis and the Prime Minister say that the New Democracy will emphasise the cyclical economy and we agree. But tell us how the circular economy applies to hydrocarbons mining, how the circular economy is applied to gold mining. Not applicable. Prime Minister, I know you're sensitive to the environment. This sensitivity, however, is not reflected in the Programmatic Declarations. The environment is a low-priority regional issue than we read. If you change your attitude, we at Mera25 will support you. If you bring the mining stop to the hydrocarbons and gold, we'll vote for it. What legacy do you carry? You carry the legacy of Mr. Samaras, who commanded the mining of gold in Skouria to become at all costs. So who were sacrificed? Four hundred fifty women and men, residents of Ierissos and eastern Halkidiki, were sacrificed, who were subject to the anti-terror law for the establishment of a criminal organisation. Why? Because they wanted to protect their forests, their water, their local economy and the health of their children and their own. Unscrupulous accusations, of course, were acquitted, but they were hostages so they couldn't climb the mountain to protect their forest, their water. You want to bend this social movement. Fear didn't win, the movement wasn't broken. But I fear that these practices will also apply to the gold mining that you will also promote to Evros, to lignite mining in Drama and Serres, to oil and hydrocarbons mines in Zagori, Epirus, Ionian and Crete. We as Merra25 won't allow you to do that. We will stand in this Chamber and name every human rights violation that is taking place against the movements. You return to 'five departures for an intake', i.e. to this measure that led us to be the service of environmental inspectors by 70% undersubscribed. What does that mean? It means incomplete control and enforcement of environmental legislation. Mr. Mitsotakis, in your constituency, which is my region, West Athens, there is an increasing pollution in Triasios, which is being transported and degraded to the quality of life of the inhabitants of western Athens. The citizens have appealed to environmental inspectors, who have told them at a personal level that they cannot examine their complaints, because they do not have any staff. Mr Mitsotakis, your constituency, which is my region, the western Athens, suffers from the - in practice - uncontrolled landfill of the Florida. Instead of bringing in an integrated recycling system, composting and local waste management, what do you want to bring? The privatisation of waste through PPPs, which will lead to the burning of a terrible financial cost for the middle family and the environment. Mr. Mitsotakis, in your constituency, which is mine, in western Athens, the metropolitan temple of Lamia claims to a second degree 7,500 acres from Peristeri and Petroupoli. The model school you teach to Peristeri can be lost within it in the acres, as well as thirty - five green areas, streets, and over two hundred blocks, where thousands of our fellow citizens live. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I close, with the following: Mr Mitsotakis, I have heard you say that two are the threats to Greece, to climate change and to immigration. Are war-driven, extreme poverty and extreme weather conditions the threat to Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u238	That's not immigration. It's a refugee. One more, the other one. Another immigrant, another refugee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u239	Is the pain of the other is the danger to Greece? Was our grandparents and grandmothers a danger, the victims of violence in Asia Minor, the occupation and the civil war? The danger for Greece is not immigration. The danger is climate change, populism and xenophobia. We will not vote in favour of these Programming Declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u240	The Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Panagiotis Pikrammenos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure but also a great pleasure to be at the foot of the Greek Parliament again. But this time, I am in Stepma as an elected MP with the National Party of New Democracy vote. And I want to say that I fully understand the burden of my responsibility and that I promise to serve the mandate given to me by the Greek people with all my powers. Ladies and gentlemen, my personal path and experience requires me to point out how important it is for a society and a country the proper and objective functioning of institutions, the independence of justice, the rule of law, the protection of rights. They are the principles governing a modern and liberal democracy and at the same time serve the core of human rights. Institutions are the real wealth of a country. That is why we see countries with pitiful natural sources of wealth, but strong institutions prosper, and on the contrary countries with rich natural resources but weak institutions unhappiness. I do not have to give you any examples. Our Greece does not lack the institutions of a modern and democratic state. It shall have distinct powers, reinforced mesh by independent authorities and shielding rights from risks of their embarkation. Greece's position in the European family is an increased guarantee of institutional stability and democracy. However, we must recognise that in recent years the validity of the institutions has been affected and the lack of confidence among the citizens has increased. But, listening to the Prime Minister in the latest Programmatic Declarations, I really felt joy and pride, because he spoke to our hearts. He gave the directions of a government which will serve the citizen and which promises dignity, excellence, functioning of the rule of law, economic advance and relief to the burdens of the Greek citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, efforts have been made during the crisis in many areas of state organisation and especially in budgetary matters. There's been positive steps. On the contrary, at institutional level, we experienced shocks and problems. Despite the great pressure, despite the difficulties and problems we have experienced - and most of the citizens are still facing - there have been times when the institutions and, in particular, justice have worked efficiently. Unfortunately, however, this has not always worked, and that is what we need to look for and find out what has really happened. Our first priority, therefore, is to shield the institutions, because their good functioning serves not only growth but also social well-being. Respect and restraint must also prevail within Parliament, as is the case with a sound representative parliamentary system. The House is not only the persons constituted, the elected Members, the Bureau, the Heads of Parliament, but also a set of rules governing the organization, operation, powers, powers and so on. A truly representative and liberal democracy produces rules of law, which must first of all apply and protect the rights of citizens satisfactorily, but not just of them. It is the state that must protect, too, satisfactorily, and those who do not hear, those who do not have the power to influence the rules, those who will live after us in that country and in the natural and cultural environment that we will inherit them. But also those who were on our territory from luck or need. If there are institutions in a state but they do not effectively protect citizens' rights, that is, when there is no rule of law, can we talk about democracy? Over the past few years, we have experienced a production of legislation and regulations without an unprecedented storm of real detailed arrangements for every area of public action, which may even run counter to each other. So I ask you: has the daily lives of the citizens been better? Have the arrangements introduced even been implemented? Did the citizens of this country automatically become better? I think you know the answer. Without the rules, written and unwritten who form the unifying links of a society, any attempt to implement a regulatory framework is in vain. But above all, we must ensure that the lawlessness, the evil and the contempt of the Greek citizen ceases. We've got to go into his problems and look at how to solve them. We must regain the confidence of the Greek citizen. It is the duty of politics to change, Mr President, from this Chamber, from us. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has laid the foundations for the country to move in the right direction with the Programmatic Declarations. Greece needs a reconstruction in all areas today to make the big leap to tomorrow. Society needs a vision that will not only inspire it, but will also ensure its coherence. The institutions need modernization and rationalization. And of course, the economy needs to go ahead with a dynamic growth. Emphasis, therefore, on a modern Greece. Focus resources and efforts on changing the model, knowledge and facilitating production through modern education and effective administration and justice. We need a functional democracy that guarantees political stability, which will release the country's great human potential so that it can create this potential here rather than seek better luck abroad. Our children must come back and the Greeks must gain by their vote the reason they belong to the Greek things. Ladies and gentlemen, this House is a review. The review process is an opportunity for wider consensus, starting with the upgrading of quality and rationalisation of parliamentary function. So it is up to us to finally be able to say that good times are in front of us and not behind us. We owe this to our children, who have to leave them a better home. But we also owe it to ourselves, which must have the ambition of linking our own names to the regeneration of the country. And I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that we will do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the speeches of the political leaders, through which the three-day programming statements are completed, I would like to ask you: Tomorrow is to be completed one year from the extremely sad anniversary of the tragedy in Eye. Tomorrow we don't have a plenary. Tomorrow we have the election of the committee presidencies. I wanted to ask you, as an act of minimum symbolism and a minimum tax in memory of the tragic victims of this tragedy, that the new Parliament observe a minute's silence. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity! Mr Yanis Varoufakis, President of the Mera25 Party, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since I was completely random enough to speak immediately after one minute's silence, we too should express our solidarity with our relatives and the victims of the tragedy last year. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, May 25 is obviously not going to vote in favour of the Programmatic Declarations. The reason is - by paraphrasing Marcos Antony - that we did not create Mera25, we did not enter the House to honour the populism of the rulers, the time-consuming rulers. We entered the House to bury populism, a populism that, in order not to go too far, the Greek people remember the era of semantic PASOK, a time when the biggest bubble was built in both private and public debt in the eurozone and the Greek people listened to the hard core of the eurozone. Then we had the populism of the caramanlic New Democracy. Just before LEHMAN BROTHERS shut up and the bubbles appear in our country, which was the precursor to the sequence of bank and state bankruptcys across the Eurozone, we heard the story about a shielded Greek economy. And then, when the bubbles broke, we had the beginning of the memorial populism, the record that after the hooding of the greatest bankruptcy in history, with the greatest loan at absolute prices given to the most bankrupt European state, under conditions of shrinking incomes, which were not able to repay the debt - how would they be able to repay the debt after their shrinking, due to the harsh austerity of both the old and the new government debt? -, Memorandum populism took the form of the account that austerity will drive the growth that will bear an austerity. You have spoken, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - and I hope you will - about a new chapter, about a new beginning, about a return to normality. Unfortunately, the data - I am not talking about your intentions, but about the data - do not allow us to think that way. It simply opens a new chapter in the Memorandum Procedure, in what we in Mera25 call "Hellenic colony Greece". That's not a criticism. If you want, these are the first days of your government, you have our solidarity, whenever I imagine we had at least Mr. Stakoura, who expressed it to me when we met in January 2015, because our country is caught in this debt darkness, austerity. You know, in 2018 and this year, in the first six months, what is the level of net investments? Can I talk to you? It is minus 4.6% of net investment GDP. That's what you receive. Leave the stock exchanges, leave the bond prices and the interest rates. The point is that we spend the tenth year of negative investment in this country, and nothing prejudges that we're going to get out of this. You made some announcements. We have made a calculation in the last few days to see what that means in budgetary terms. We estimate it's around 1.8 to 1.9 billion of benefits, tax exemptions. From the ENVY we estimate around 680 million - tell me whether or not I am right - from the solidarity levy of around 308 million, from the trade end of 193 million, from the tax on legal persons around 690 million. It is a total of about 1.870-1,900 million. If you add the costs - which you will do well to do, in particular, the recruitment of teachers, nurses, doctors, we applaud - the primary surplus comes out for 2019, if it continues in the first half of 2020, to fall to around 1,5-1.6%. At the same time, however, you are committed to 3.5%. How are you gonna get it? And here is no question of disagreement between us, because we economists know very little about the real economy, let us be honest. One of the few we know and know well, is something that is legally valid and that is why we are aware of it. We know, therefore, that the primary surplus is always equal to net over-investment minus the current account deficit. That's for granted. The current trade deficit over the last two years has gone up again, it has gone around 3% - 2.1% was this morning when I looked - which means that to achieve the target of 3.5% of the primary surplus, with these tax exemptions, which you do well and do, what should happen? Net investment must be increased much faster than the current account deficit. This has never been done in the history of capitalism. When you have tax exemptions, clean investments never grow faster. They may increase, but they must increase faster than the current trade deficit. In other words, what you have done, accepting the 3.5% of the target and the exemptions and further expenses, is that you have created for yourself a moving target, a goal that will run faster than you or the Greek economy. And then it is the question, Mr Staikora, ladies and gentlemen: what are you going to make? With the lenders, who will insist on new equivalent measures, to reintroduce the primary surplus to 3.5%, or to the Greek people? I let it hang on to the question. I think we can all answer it and I don't just blame you and SYRIZA's comrades exactly the same. PASOK did exactly the same. The Memorandum of Understanding begins with the post that compliance with the objectives and the "yes" to lenders is now in favour of everything. A small parentheses of you, beyond criticism. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary of Mera25 hits the warning bell.]] I have been informed by the Secretariat, Mr President, that I have about fifteen minutes in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u244	You have eight minutes. There'll be a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u245	Tell me exactly how much tolerance is, because I don't want to exceed your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u246	Tolerance is flexible, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u247	I don't want any flexibility. We have had enough market flexibility so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u248	I see it down, you guys up. We'll find them. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u249	No, because if it is, I should not give my advice to Mr Stakoura. Mr Stavoura, for example, take HISFIA, these reductions that you make. I, purely politically and ideologically, totally disagree. I don't see why high-priced property must be reduced. They should have increased. The percentages of HISPIAN are low for high-end property. We who can pay more, must pay more and must be 0% of all those who cannot serve even the cost of depreciating their real estate. The same is true of the taxation of legal persons in enterprises. It is not possible, when we have oligopolistic supermarkets, to reduce the company's tax from 28% to 29% to 20%, especially before the Competition Committee does something for the unacceptable oligopolistic practices of large companies. We, as Mera25, propose that the tax should be 15% for micro-enterprises, 20% for medium-sized enterprises and let it stay where it is. Remove the tax advance if you want to help big businesses. That is the ideological part, however, which we disagree with. But now the advice comes. If you go to Brussels and tell them "flat" 20%, you will receive a huge "nein", not because they are ideologically committed to the Mera25 and not to you, but because one thing frightens them, two words: Matteo Salvini. Salvini has this policy, and Salvini uses this policy, the reduction horizontally of taxes, in a republic, why? Firstly, because it serves its own political interests, and secondly - and this is very important - because it is the way in which the European Union, the Eurozone, is to perpetuate Mr Salvini's dream is italexit and you know that. So if you go with the same numbers Mr. Salvini goes, I think you'll have problems. That's a friendly advice. And another friendly advice. You know very well that Mr. Draghi's armory is over. He's doing it! Mrs Lagard will have a huge problem, that she will have replaced Mr Draghi, who is believed to have saved the euro through quantitative relaxation, but unfortunately the weapons of quantitative relaxation can no longer function, because they have run out of German bonds. Instead of going to ask for our Greek bonds to be included in the quantitative relaxation, I would suggest you, Mera25 proposes, in a pan-European way, that Diem25 ask for something different. Instead of the quantitative relaxation of Mr Draghi and Mrs Lagard, you should ask for something quite different, for a large version of European Investment Bank bonds for all the countries of the euro area and the European Union in general, supported by the Central Bank, as she does, but to a much greater extent. It is the only way to reach a consensus within the Eurozone. I'm closing this chapter, which, if you like, falls under the advice. The break with lenders is, therefore, given that the arithmetic of the primary surplus is such. When you break with the Greek people, the inequalities you create will be even greater than the existing unacceptable, inhumane inequality. At the same time, you will make gifts - you yourself have said it - in our parasitic oligarchy. At the same time we see the privatisation of water coming to us. You guys talk about privatization of PPC. Mr. Hatzidakis, I'd like you to do me a favor. Please do not behave again as something positive for you that your period or because of your election increased PPC's share price. That's not right and I'll remind you of something. Remember 'ENRON', do you remember 'LEHMAN BROTHERS'? A couple of 24 hours before they were closed, when their sale was announced, the stock went up. Stock exchanges operate under their own rules. It doesn't mean anything to the company's viability. The privatisation brought about by SYRIZA, the partial privatisation, the actual concession of PPC's revenues to individuals under the pressure of the troika, was the reason for PPC's depreciation, but I reserve to speak about them at another time. What keeps us alarmed as a PART25 is that the combination of the failure of your budgetary policy, which is responsible for 3.5%, the exacerbation of social tensions, the class war against the weak and, at the same time, the culture of a parasitic oligarchy will lead to a combination of repression and further immigration of our children. And let me just say it: eventually, you offer the Greek people spectacles without bread and spectacles very unpleasant. We will be here, good faith, and tips to give to the extent that they have some value for you and to make you the hardest opposition there is that can be. We'll be here to reveal even the dark side of the positives you suggest. We live with the dream of coming and suggesting things that are healing for the country. You said something very right, Mr Mitsotakis: a vote to the abstaining. I've lived twenty-nine years abroad. My daughter is growing up right now when we're talking to Australia. I can only applaud the vote on the motions for resolutions. But, Mr. Mitsotakis, how will you give them the vote? Will a person vote in letters or at consulates who have had to go to Kastoria since 1950 for the region of Kastoria? Do you want to strengthen our dispersion? Do you want them to join as Greeks better in their country and at the same time in the Greek Parliament? You should then create regions of North America, South America, northern, central Europe, and be elected, since they have been naturalised in these regions and come here to Parliament and represent western Australia, North Canada - although I do not believe there is such a region, you understand what I am saying - New Zealand. Then we will be voting in favour. If you are simply using them as voters who vote in regions with which they no longer have contact, we will be vertically against you. The Minister for Digital Policy spoke of digitisation. We welcome it, but the devil lives in detail. Talk about G - Cloud. Who's this gonna belong to? Google? To some of the big companies we know very well that neither can we trust them with the data of our people and our state nor should we grant them the work, which should be produced software here in the country by our own startups, by our own companies? You talked about 5G networks. What is your position for 'HUAWEI'? HUAWEI is currently the centre of geopolitical conflicts. She's the only company that can give us this technology, but Mr. Trump is fighting with her. What position will you hold? You spoke of public self-information.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Varoufakis, you spoke for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u251	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u252	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u253	You spoke of public self-information. Will you legislate on a public employee ban to ask a citizen for information that the public has? Only then will it work. To close, we will be here to reveal the class dystopia that will bring about the failure that is specified by the Memorandum Greece. We'll be here because the break is going to happen. And when the break takes place, we will take the part of many, we will take the part of the victims of the crisis both in Greece and in Germany and in France. Because the crisis that began here in 2008-2010 was moved through our memorandum throughout the European Union and at the moment the majority of citizens in all countries are suffering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Varoufakis. Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, an elasticity in time is going to have it, huh? I see the Prime Minister is gone. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the Greek Prime Minister and clarifying the messages that he has given us, I heard seventy-six "will". You know, when we have Programmatic Declarations with "will" you cannot consent or vote in favour. So when we see what you will do, we will talk about it. It was seventy-six in fact 'will'. I'm starting like this. I am still waiting for twenty Members of the Greek Parliament for the infamous, anonymous lawsuit to Mr Kotzias. And we don't want to go to court, man. I'm not saying Mr. Kotzias is a traitor. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But the rhetoric question is: Was Macedonia betrayed? The neo-democratic electorate said Macedonia was betrayed, that the agreement was wrongly reached. So let's see - why the excellent legal officer, Mr. Voridis, told me I knew the law - whether we should finally discuss what happened. The rest is a matter of justice. To come to Parliament, to learn the Greek people why SYRIZA was raped to close the Skopje issue. What's the point? We need, therefore, very simply - and you know so many of you - signatures, because we want a hundred and fifty Members to go to what you said yesterday morning, Mr Vorides. We want to finally know why Kotzias was raped. I want twenty of you. I don't want any more. By 20, twenty-five people, my child, for Macedonia. Shouldn't we know? And since much has been said in Parliament, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said by the newly-democratic Members that the New Democracy has never said that it will annul the agreement. Lie! I'm afraid you're lying. ‘CATTERIN’, 22-1-2019. I read: "The New Democracy will do everything it can to cancel the Prespecies Agreement", Mitsotakis. I'm filing the document. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Statement by the leading Minister of the New Democracy at the 1st Annual Economic Forum on September 10, 2018. "In the elections, if SYRIZA wins, he will have the political right to ratify the agreement. If New Democracy wins, it will have the political right to cancel it." He's a top minister. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you want any more statements? I have a series of statements here. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen up, fellow journalists. You are telling us that you have never been a minister to tell you that he will cancel the deal. Don't mess it up. That was said. Written in the Minutes. And I do not want to expose the colleague who told me three times. Are you all right? Are you putting Dimitrios Skalkos Secretary-General for Public Investment and the ESDP? Do you know who Scully was? Let me read you. The party in which he was found allied as a Liberal Alliance with the Uranium Arc. I'll file the post. Let the government answer us, is this a conscious choice? He allied with the Rainbow talking about a Macedonian minority and you put him as Secretary-General? You tell me the word that characterizes this choice. Bad, criminal, nationally harmful. I'm not taking it down. I deliver to the Minutes the text. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have here a letter from top legal, constitutional, historical to the Prime Minister with all the ambiguities of the Prespecies Agreement. Why does the Prime Minister not invite these people to cancel the infamous, anonymous agreement? They sent him a letter. Where did they bury her? In the drawers? He's somewhere. I put it before her once again. It's an open lecturer letter. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Friends and friends, because time is not too much, today I heard Mr Piatt, who was, of course, sorrowing here in the House this morning. That's his right. The Americans are our friends. Let's not forget that, just like the Germans. I'm neither an anti-American nor a pro-American. First of all, I'm Greek. I love my country, and the rest is gone. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So Mr Pyatt has told us today that this is incomprehensible. I have his statement here. He said the only Greek region with national sovereignty is the Ionian. That's his interview. It says, "No one disputes the sea west of Crete or Ionian. It questions the eastern Aegean, south of Crete. Does the government accept that? He's a ambassador, he's a kid, he's not a foreign minister, he's saying, boy, what does man say? He said so, Mr. Voridis, don't ask yourself. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have here Mr. Dendia, whom I honor as a person, who knows very well Greek as well as English. I asked if you said what was written in BLOOMBERG: 'We want to work with Turkey on drilling and natural resources'. I asked and I want a denial or confirmation. I'm still waiting for her. Today, speaking, Mr Tindemans, you personally said that we do not have bilateral disputes. We have with AEZ, Mr. Dendias, who while Dora Bakoyannis - and quite rightly - agreed with Albania in 2009, appealed to the constitutional court and canceled the bilateral agreement with the Albanians in this way. How do we have no differences? The intersectional islands have a huge energy, natural gas, plot 1, plot 2, for which there is a great deal of talk. We have differences with Himara. They're intercepting Greek land, persecuting the Northcontinentals. But we have differences. We're not talking about fighting with them. But not at all a sacrifice. It's not true. It can't be. We cannot always be beaten and we are the Greeks. Something's wrong. This is Mr. Dendia's interview. I'm tabling it for the Minutes and I'm waiting for an answer. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to the biggest problem, friends and friends. For us the biggest problem is that Greece dies and the Greeks die. We're not giving birth. They're not born Greeks. We don't support the Greek family. I do not understand the love of someone for Hassan, Ibrahim - because we are all philanthropists - and not see that the Greek is no longer giving birth. What do we have to do? Copy European models. I will give an example of a country where many in here might not want to hear it, but there is also its president and the one who governs it. It's Hungary. Premise, which began to take effect slowly, increased births. You don't want Greeks to be born? Greece is dying. And it's not just that the Greeks die, but it's another matter. It's the insurance business. If you don't have any employees, you can't have insurance contributions. If you don't have Greeks, you don't have workers. These are self-evident, they are transporting containers. Will the eighth-year-old work? Where? Or will the few people work to feed pensioners? I am referring above all to the financial staff of the Government. Copy successful recipes. What you see here is the birth and death graph. They started to fall here and the deaths came up. It's over. Shouldn't we get care? He says "What is two grand for the birth?". Mr. Dendia, the two grand for the birth have left the hospital. Money's gone. It says ‘thousand euros increase in tax’. Christ and Holy Mary, we're only talking about it! The child is a presumption. If you have a child, you have to make an extra income, instead of taxing it in total, because Greeks are born. In any case, it gives birth to citizens, not to say "Greeks" and is disturbed by some. People are born. Here is the incentive that our state, Greece, should give for tomorrow, for the future. Mostly we must support the woman, the working woman. We have to give her a chance to have a child and help her. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] Friends and friends, let's go to the tough part: asylum. Gentlemen, with you. There's no such thing as disobedience. Irresponsible university in a democracy don't fit. Democracy is in itself a great asylum for exchanges of views and ideas. I don't understand anyone's obsession with asylum. I don't understand why we let the drug dealer walk around the university. I don't understand why the parade should take place in front of the university door. I do not understand why the dean, who is afraid of his life, should decide whether or not the asylum should be lifted. And I don't like the person to rattle on the phone and say 'go inside'. No, that's what the state has to do, Minister. The state will enforce law and order, and let's not like this. In democracy, there is law and order. It's over and over! Whoever likes it! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Finally, I heard something good from Mrs. Keramea. "The eternal students are no longer". We're in this with you. The other one is eighty and is a student. Let's go to the open university. It's not bad. We're with him. But you can't be a student for twenty years in the fourth year. This is not done in any country in the world. What can we do now? Can we change it here? Let's go to the big deal. I have before me an investigation by a body known as 'PLAZA'. Here's what's happened at the 'PLAZA'. We have four years for three thousand immigrants, and for everyone they got 15 euros, he says, in the day. We have three thousand immigrants for 15 euros for four years. These gentlemen did 65,700,000 euros. Because non-governmental organisations are businessmen. That's the truth. There's Hans, a friend of mine from Germany - I keep saying that, because Germany I grew up - in Lesvos, who takes 2,600 euros. What's man doing? He's a portable immigrant. Since there are immigrants or poachers for me, so-called refugees, he works and is paid. Where's the money going to get this? And he's having a nice time at sea and he's eating his fishes cheap. So this business has to stop. And I'll tell you now how it stops. You want to be a philanthropist? Take ten people home. You want to be solidarity? Take five people at your house. But don't put the state budget on me with billions of euros from the Greeks' pocket. To ban non-governmental organisations in the country, as in other European countries. There's a ban, a check! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because Mr. Soros cannot do his things in Greece because he has delegations here and do what they want. To be controlled by independent bodies, mainly the state. Also, no more benefits. When you give the Afghan the opportunity to think he will have free current, free phone, home to stay and 400 euros a month for every child, here is heaven! He'll be here. But if we cut his benefits, he won't come. It's just things. Because that means prevention and prevention. Ladies and gentlemen, since when did Afghan and Pakistan become refugees? I didn't get it. Since when is the Afghan and Pakistani refugees? Anything but refugees. Geneva and the UN say specific things about when a refugee is. Why do we have to change everything and baptize them as we want? Tell me about it. What for? If there is one reason for seriousness, I accept the absurdity of the arguments. But it doesn't exist. I heard the Minister, Mr Chrysochide, whom I like. But I never expected neo-democrats to applaud an ex-pasco in the good sense of the term. The applause from New Democracy to Mr Chrysochide was so intense that it was not even the Prime Minister. So let's see what Mr Chrysochidis said. For me, the police are guarding the border. So listen to what he said to us: 'The police are guarding the borders'. Where and where does the police guard the border? I didn't understand. I know the army guards the border. He says: "The police guard the borders and must guard them." He also said something else, which is important: 'Migration policy is foreign policy for us'. I don't understand what the Minister said. Like I didn't understand why he didn't talk about the very simple thing. Some people were disturbed because we made a statement. I will highlight it once again: For us, for the Greek Solution, the soul slave, seven-year-old children who sink the boat and the seven-year-old child sinks and dies, the drug dealer and the pedophiles are entitled to a sentence and says here: life! But when we say life, we mean life. Never get the pedophile out of prison again. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And ask the parents who suffered this suffering. I had a neighbor whose kid had a problem for 15 years. That's who I'm telling you. Nothing more and nothing less. The state must intervene in the right direction. In closing my speech today, I would like to point out that I am learning some strange things. It sounds like you want to cancel Patras' way to the Tower. There have been contracts if I'm not mistaken with a 50% discount. I hope it won't be the case that you're going to cancel them to give them to the known pimps you've been talking about in the past. Because if this road is cancelled, because there is Kalogricas, the man of SYRIZA, as you say - you have a right that ideologically has something to do with SYRIZA - we will go to some other people who the former Prime Minister called 'pimps' to them in the past. Don't go there. I also hear that on the Lamia - Xyniada motorway a company, TERNA - I do not know if it is the case - with a zero discount and a EUR 300,000. Look into it, Minister. Mr. Stavura, look for it. These are just examples of bad walking at first. In conclusion, I would like to say about the rural economy. I have a report here. We are the only state in the world, friends and friends, who wants to waste his own olive tree. He wants to dismantle his own vineyard. We let the Chinese produce olive oil for the last three years. It is enough today, ladies and gentlemen, a report by the 'McKINSEY' which is a few years old - it is not today, it is also known by the previous ministers - which says that the olive mills must be abolished in Greece and that there must be three multinationals. This report will shortly be the death of the olive producers in the country and of the mills. I am presenting the report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want you to think seriously. Oil gives us 500,000,000 euros. Let us not murder the Greek olive-oil of thousands of years, because we will find all this in front of us. The Greek olive tree, the Greek vineyard, the Greek farms are our steam engine. We need agro-industry with new quality crops. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] To close, I want to say one more time. Friends and friends, if you don't have a seed bank, there's no rural economy. Let Minister Vorides decide to make a scientific team, create a Greek seed bank in our country. Unfortunately, we do not understand the obvious. After thanking the President-in-Office, I should like to say this: since this morning, a channel, SKAI - I am not hiding - has found the cause of a verbal failure to attack us personally. He's doing this all the time. Some of the journalists do it, not all of them. I'll tell them that I'll be the mop of Latsi and every Latsi I'll never be in my life. On the Greek issue, we are across the street because we have an opinion on the investment. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] These are not investments. It is Germany's investment in Turkey for 'VOLKSWAGEN'. This is a production of wealth. The other one's a casino. The other one is for six years. These are not investments, gentlemen. You want to bring in investments? Support the Greek businessman, the small and medium-sized, the mediterranean businessman, the Greek who loves Greece and the country. Because we always say: First Greek, first Greece! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u256	Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas is called in Stepma, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC was electorally saying that the government's rotation would not mean a substantial change of policy, but simply a change of dogma between SYRIZA and the New Democracy. After this two-day debate, and not on the substance of the three-day debate we have here in Parliament, there are many more, not just signs, but proof of the correctness of this assessment. And it's not going to change that assessment of a possible cockroache today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, usually set up for detachment, for disorientation of the people. Besides, in the near future, there will probably be even more such evidence. The new government is already ready to meet the requirements of large capital and of the European Union for new, more drastic measures to support the profitability and implementation of the tough programme of the infamous institutions. The Government of New Democracy will therefore pursue the same policy on all the main axes. Active participation in imperialist planning in the region with the dangerous commitments of NATO and the United States of America, as well as new anti-grassroots economic measures based on the memorandum prerequisites - commitments to which they have agreed, will worsen the situation in all areas of our people's lives. Besides, the ministers of the new New Democracy Government are well-known, tested officials in the implementation of anti-grassroots policies. Today they return by turning the ground with anti-grass laws and decisions from the previous SYRIZA government, while others carried out BSE and other major employers' organisations. The new, more technocratic governance model announced by Mr. Mitsotakis actually promotes speeding up and more effective control over the anti-grass work provided by the previous government. For example, subjecting the immigration policy sector to the Ministry of Civil Protection demonstrates that the new government will continue and intensify the treatment of refugees and immigrants on terms of repression. Why are the Moria-type concentration camps, which need to be closed immediately? The same is also the ban on refugees going to their countries of destination, since these people do not want to stay in Greece. The same is the delays in asylum procedures and others that the previous government has implemented in the context of the reactionary agreement between the European Union and Turkey and the current one, from what we have heard, faithfully continues, despite some verbal differences. What, in addition to being suppressed, is to promote the abolition of university asylum, which goes hand in hand with a university - a company which has been gradually promoted by all the governments to date and assisted by the various groups, the various circuits as active mechanisms, in order to take new measures to suppress and curb real popular freedoms? At the same time, all those who have targeted the asylum, among them, in addition to SYRIZA's government MPs and MPs, do not speak of entire areas of Athens, Attica, all of Greece with an outbreak of crime, in which regions and university institutions do not have any university asylum. Of course, the government's programme announcements could not miss the reference to the notorious strategic alliance between Greece and the United States of America. Although in this area, as in others, the SYRIZA government has raised the bar too high. Those who until yesterday were supposed to have been killed, since they were divided into chaos, seen in here exchanging abundances for the important work they receive and deliver, for the need for national understanding in the big and critical that are not offered for party controversy, say, other such "loving". The phrase that sounds more translated than the ministers of the New Democracy that: "We are not here to break down, but to build on the positives of the previous government," gives their mark. The shorter not only denotes the problems of the people with the government's rotation, but each government comes to build on the anti-grass work of the previous one, to lift the anti-lingual structure even higher on the basis of the same architectural design of business groups and ruling order in the name of continuity - supposedly - of the state. So the next day, then, capitalist competition is here first of all, the exploitation, that is, all of which result from the memoranda of lasting life, the Euro-Union anti-grass commitments that only lead to greater bankruptcy of the people. SYRIZA, New Democracy, along with other parties who are preparing to play the role of complementing and arrogant in possible difficulties that the diploma will have, since of course they have played to a certain extent the role of abundantly in genuine radicalisation, in real progress, in the biggest, that is, strengthening of the JRC. The Group of the Communist Party of Greece is firmly on the side of the people on the sole basis of defending its interests, its genuine relief, its solidarity, the recovery of economic losses that our people had during the economic crisis, the claim of modern needs. We will continue in the daily struggles, in the battles we have before us, so that through this attempt to increase the focal points, they are rooted in every workplace, the social alliance, the unity of employees, the self-employed farmers, professionals, craftsmen, traders, scientists, artists, people from the field of education, health, culture and sport. We continue to strive to embrace this movement more widely for women and young people and young people. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) will bring the House the claim of all this. That is what we will do consistently, as we have done all these four years with dozens of amendments and proposals of law which were rejected by the hand of SYRIZA, New Democracy and Change Movement, while voting after the few. With new proposals and amendments, the JRC will continue to demand measures for the protection of the unemployed, but also stable work with rights, the abolition of flexible labour relations, health and safety at the workplace, the abolition of all laws liberalising redundancies, the abolition of Sunday's holidays, the removal of the law that puts the right to strike and not the extension of obstacles, even by making electronic looting of trade unions and those who vote, as the government uncomplicatedly announced through its well-known and unexplained Minister. I would remind you that as soon as May the JRC had tabled an amendment to abolish the 'plate' right to strike and with all of you, New Democracy and SYRIZA, you rejected it. Especially for professionals, craftsmen and traders, the JRC will require their immediate relief from the "female" of debts and auctions. For farmers, a crucial issue for their survival is the reduction of the costs of agricultural and livestock production by reducing costs for diesel, irrigation and other costs for infrastructures with minimum guaranteed prices, protection of production from any disaster and full compensation to farmers and farmers. The Communist Party of Greece ranks as a special issue the claim of public, universal, compulsory, social security where no worker will be uninsured. It calls for the abolition of the Katrugalos Act, on which the Government of the New Democracy is pressing for new policies of reinsurance. It requires the restoration of the NSA, the widow's pensions and yet. Wild taxation has kneeled the workers' homes, so within Parliament our parliamentary group will insist on what we have said in detail in our prototype. For the health and welfare sector, our position for public and free medical care and hospital care means, first and foremost, permanent and full-time work of the medical and nursing staff with the recruitment of permanent staff, of course, who do not reach what has been announced. At the same time, we demand an increase in the costs of care, disability benefits and pensions, work for all disabled people, full and free treatments, medicines, examinations, technological aids for all disabled years, public and free structures for the diagnosis, education and rehabilitation of children with disabilities and learning difficulties. We're calling children's stations for all children with the abolition of nourishments. In the sensitive area of our education all claims are condensed from now on: Integrated education for all children at all levels, exclusively public free schools and schools without any business activity, fully staffed with all specialities and state funding that meets these needs. We cannot tolerate any gaps in teachers at all levels. We call direct recruitment with permanent staff to cover all gaps in schools and universities with the required staff of all specialties. The issues of protecting human life are again, unfortunately, tragically, in the news. It was Halkidiki recently, it was Matty last year, Mandra, unfortunately something else tomorrow. Climate change cannot be alibied to hide the enormous responsibilities for the lack of necessary measures and infrastructure over time, based on the possibilities offered by the development of science and technology itself, in order to protect the lives of our people. As in the previous parliamentary term, the JRC will oppose any attempt to limit the popular freedoms of social rights. We will put forward concrete proposals for their enlargement. At the same time, we will continue in all ways to fight racism towards refugees, migrants, but also to all people who make different choices in their lives. The positive fact that the Nazi Golden Dawn was left out of Parliament should not lead Parliament to underestimate fascism, as well as the fact that a percentage of it moves to other parties and related ideological and political areas of the extreme right. In view of the changes in the Criminal Code, we are calling for the previous stricter penalty framework for the address of a criminal organization associated with the trial of the Golden Dawn, which was reduced by the SYRIZA Government, despite the fact that this damage has already been done and the Nazi criminals will be judged on unacceptably more favourable terms. In the debate on the Constitutional Review, the JRC's parliamentary group has tabled concrete proposals and will insist, because they are proposals that protect our country's sovereign rights, broaden social, trade and political rights. The JRC's proposals concern, among other things, the abolition of privileges such as those held in logistics, the protection of natural wealth and social goods, and the prohibition on their ownership to individuals. They also concern overtime demands, such as the total abolition of Article 86, so that ministers such as all citizens can be persecuted, and the failure to appoint the supreme courts by the respective government. All of this is a small sample of those who will fight the KKE in and out of the House on the streets of the race. This consistent attitude of the JRC is neither easy nor safe, as other parties say. The working people's opposition to the JRC is a very complex task, it requires great sacrifices and responsibilities. But this is the only attitude that can put pressure on the people by means of positive measures, by blocking the government's reactionary measures, the mechanisms of co-operation, which can ultimately open the way for radical changes and overthrows. And let's not tell us where to find the equivalents, where to get the resources to do all this. Reduce expenditure on operational needs and only NATO. Every year 4 billion goes not for the country's defence, but for NATO's military operations, apart from the constant military exercises, over-protection for the protection of neighbour Northern Macedonia after the Natali inspiration, shameful Ambassadors' agreement, with huge daily economic costs. Tax shipowners who pay virtually nothing, like other parts of big capital. Leave them without gifts and some money will be found for the people, so that all of them will not be present safely to the charitable donors of what the state has to do. Finally, demand the German corrections. What everyone wants, which the committee is fighting for German compensation and corrections, do not give to the German capitalists and imperialists. Unequivocally delete the unfavourable debt, for which the Greek people are not responsible at all, but at all, your policies, your European discipline and supervision, your European orientation and a series of other things that the Greek people know and know about. The JRC has a planned plan for both today and tomorrow. Most of all, however, we must agree that Greece has an experienced labour scientific staff, has huge productive potential in the industrial and agricultural sectors, which can ensure popular prosperity, satisfying modern needs. However, these possibilities today remain untapped, because they are not, you see, comparative advantages, that is, they do not offer for the great and fast profit of capitalists. These possibilities are also undermined by EU restrictions and divisions. This is the country's main political problem and can, in our view, be solved with social property, with the central scientific design of the economy and services, with real labour participation in the management and power bodies, the release of imperialist alliances and equal cooperation in all areas with all the peoples, with all the countries of the world. This project is the only thing that really is of interest to the people, because it can satisfy these needs. For all these reasons, therefore, the JRC's parliamentary group, our MEPs, these days, the JRC, does not give a vote of confidence in this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u258	Mrs Fofi Gennimata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, is called at Step. Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the Prime Minister and the relevant government ministers chose to keep closed papers. However, for Greece to come out of the crisis definitively, clean answers and specific commitments are needed, Mr Mitsotakis. The country needs as much as ever a specific plan of Greek identity and property, through which it will be able to regain credibility, trust and ultimately its lost sovereignty, a plan from which the vast majority of the Greek people will benefit. In a country where people are really suffering from inequality, the theory of the end of ideologies does not fit. You told us that your policy had no meaning. It has - and you know - and it's deeply conservative, with a little bit of popular right. Every government, Prime Minister, is interested in efficiency. But what's your target? Should some people just increase their profits? Your policies are not independent of your ideology. Ideology and result for us go together, so that it is fair to distribute any result. The core of your speech was tax relief, horizontal and immediate. It is true that the taxes imposed by the SYRIZANEL Government are unbearable and have consecrated the economy in a lasting stagnation and, of course, have also led to high unemployment. Today we have your own financial announcements. And I would like to ask you three questions: First, where is your plan that the tax reductions you have announced - and it remains to be seen in the bills - lead to investment? You're doing tax evacuations. That's right, we agree that this must be done. The question, however, is that you have high targets for primary surpluses. So, finally, will there be the financial space necessary to implement your announcements, or will we in the next period have new cuts, new cuts and hospitals, which were brought to a collapse from the policies of SYRIZA and new drastic reductions in the Public Investment Programme, as well as of course new cuts in social expenditure in general, what the SYRIZANEL Government did in the previous period? Proceed without a convincing prediction of how to trigger long-hauled growth. I would like to point out, Mr Mitsotakis, that the President of the ESM, Mr Regling, in the past few days, has publicly warned that, in order to have an impact on the development of fiscal relaxation, the financial area that is being saved must go not only to tax relief - which must go - but also to investment. Do you have any proposal to strengthen public investment, infrastructure, export business and production, or are you just waiting for the miracle, such as taxes that you are warning growth to come in a magical way? How will you avoid, Prime Minister, the 2006 fiasco which the New Democracy has also reduced business tax and property tax, but which has not appeared? Only the corporate profits increased, the revenues decreased, and then we got the categorisation. The second question you left in his luck is the superstition. The SYRIZANEL government, which otherwise fights neoliberalism and the International Monetary Fund, imposed it by granting public property for ninety years to lenders. What exactly do you intend to do? Will you keep it as proof of your own compliance with lenders or will you change it? The character of the U.S.A. is dismantling and extremist, even in terms of colonialism. We need to take back the national control of the surplus fund and stop acting as a mortgage account for public property. The aim must be to develop it into a national property fund. Its income, not its assets, must be directed to three areas: one part to repayment of public debt, another part to investments in energy and climate change, and another part, an important part, to save as a dowry for the insurance system, for the future generations, for new children, that is, today, which will need a credible insurance system. Another great omission of you in your Programming Declarations is the complete absence of any care and care for the workers, not only for those who continue to work and have to see their wages improved - I will speak immediately after that - but also for those who lost their jobs during the crisis. Many of them remain unpaid, while the owners of the companies that went bankrupt and their property also enjoy their lives. Prime Minister, the phenomenon of the bankrupt rich is a challenge for the workers, for the unemployed and a great injustice for the firms concerned and responsible entrepreneurship. Only by strict allocation of responsibilities and confiscation of fraudulent assets can a responsible corporate framework be established, which is reliable and attractive to new initiatives and investments. In this respect, you have an obligation to put yourself on the table, and we will be watching and pressing all the time. Without the workers entitled to Greece, no serious development can be achieved. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We have not heard any plan to restore incomes. Very little has been heard of the workers, the unemployed, the pensioners and the disabled. I repeat the questions which have been left unanswered and uncovered by your ministers. Are you insisting on your announcements to circumvent sectoral agreements and remove labour rights? Will the binding and universal application of sectoral conventions be applied? Will the responsibility for determining the minimum wage increase be restored, yes or no, to the social partners, with the National General Labour Convention? What are your measures to get the unemployed to work? Will you take up our proposal on tax incentives for businesses? Will you adopt our proposal to support young children so that for three years, when they start their professional activity, they can be exempt from taxes and levies? Are your inadmissible statements made by your Members to convert the insurance system into a capitalisation system? It is a proposal that fully confers the public and social character of insurance. You have not even responded to the proposals made by the RESEMA. We are calling for specific commitments. It was back in government as well. After the small and flexible government with the fifty-five ministers, fifty-two Secretary-General were added by decision of the Prime Minister and after the reactions, another level of administration was added. Despite your declarations, it is clear that you support the customer state very well, because you are relying on it. You're starting wrong, Mr. Mitsotakis. Nothing will change in this country unless we break this abscess. It has been very little heard about self-government and decentralisation, although it is time to make a major revolution and a definitive division. Responsibilities should be transferred to the municipalities and regions pertaining to the daily life of the citizen, regions being given a development identity and a decisive role in development, as well as municipalities in social policy. We have serious reservations about what we will see in the next period, because your lineup was historical to all major areas and changes made in this area. I return to the transfer of prison responsibilities to the Ministry of Civil Protection, because it is not just a conservative regression. It is also against the European acquis, and especially against the 2006 European penitentiary rules of the Council of Europe, rules signed by our country, which explicitly stipulate that prisons are the responsibility of public authorities that are part of military and police investigation services. We have not heard any plan to reconstruct the social state. There's a lack of specialized health planning. The need for a substantial upgrading of public health is lost to the benefits of sub-financing and is limited, as we understand it, to a mere management of everyday life. But here we are highlighting the huge problem created in primary health care by the SYRIZA experiments, which have really led to bankruptcy at primary level and need to address the problem immediately. And an observation. Guaranteed social income is a key priority for social inclusion and cohesion and for tackling extreme poverty. It is not a New Democracy policy, as the Minister responsible has said. At least here are many people who know it was a policy of our prolongation, which Vassilis Kegeroglou carried out when he had the relevant competence. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Today, then, changes must be made so that it is not forbidden for people receiving an allowance, for legal work and, above all, for the CRL but also for the unemployment benefit to be converted into an occupational reintegration allowance in the private sector, social and self-government. We have not heard of the primary sector and the rural world. We have not heard any commitments to reduce taxation to 13%, for their insurance, for reducing production costs, for linking production to processing. However, primary production, our agricultural products are our main weapons of development, extroversion and, ultimately, exit from the crisis. I should also like to point out, Prime Minister, the main priority of the country in the European Union for the next few months, which is the negotiation of the new budget framework, including the revision of the CAP. We didn't hear a complete plan to rescue PPC. You will speak in the future from what I understand, after listening to the relevant consultants you will be recruiting. We are opposed to announcements of sale to private individuals of energy networks. And don't forget that the DEDEN is a monopoly and its networks ensure universal access for citizens to the public good of electricity. A comprehensive plan for PPC's rescue and resolution is needed, which will not lead to adventures for the simple consumer. We repeat this almost daily. Finally, we have heard nothing, Mr Mitsotakis, about the new national objectives. How will you handle national issues in progress? You said nothing about the Cyprus issue at all. For the revision of Turkey and the new challenges and threats, for the energy reserves in the Eastern Mediterranean and the new geopolitical importance of the region, you have told us nothing about climate change. There is no need for semi-metres and individual options here, but there is also an extensive restructuring of the production and consumption model. You said nothing about the declining demographic pattern of Hellenism, with the low fertility and widespread migration of young people, at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Vorides thinks that I will be disturbed because he called me "seasonaries" yesterday, he makes a big mistake. I will continue with great passion to defend the social state, labour rights, public goods, equal opportunities for all and the abolition of all discrimination and inequality... [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] ...because this is the legacy of our prolongation, because that is what our socialist ideology and the principles of political liberalism require. As we resisted exactly the populism of SYRIZA, so we will stand against the right and its right-wing components. We will have opposition to combat, programme and responsibility. We will have a fight against this, so that the voice of the workers, the retired, the small and medium-sized ones, the farmers, the women and the young people can actually be expressed, in order to speak out the policies with which we disagree and always defend in particular the weakest ones. We will have a programme opposition, with the visibility and the vindication of our own processed alternative positions and proposals, proposals and positions that have been discussed with the Greek society. They're not fragments. They are part of our integrated programme, the "Greek Plan". Finally, we will have a responsible opposition, because we do not hesitate to vote in favour of what is necessary for the country and the Greek people. We have proved this over the past period and we will continue on the same road, with faith in the need for national understanding on all the major issues of the country, on national issues, on negotiation with the partners - it is enough for you to see how we finally proceed with this negotiation and not go to the Greek bells - and, of course, on the completion of the constitutional review and see and how we will get to a fair and proportionate electoral system. We therefore expect to see your proposals. I repeat that a white check for nothing is going to be given. In conclusion, I would like to make a point - a warning in every direction, so that there are good accounts. Enough with the bullying in the Change Movement and its stalks. Enough with the steering centres and all those who do, who systematically slander the Change Movement and the positions that we have been expressing throughout this period. They're gonna have really bad business with us, because we're going to unravel them. And, Mr Mitsotakis, I suggest you take off the socket of Maximos, which you found there - from what I understand, it remained - because it still seems to be working even in the first days of your term of office. Today, the Change Movement is voting against, for all the reasons our parliamentary group has developed these days, the government's Programmatic Declarations. From tomorrow it begins for us a new day, a day with a new effort, for Greece and the Greeks, for the unity of the Greek people, because only so can we ensure dignity for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u260	Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Officerial Response and Chairman of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this three-day debate on the programming declarations is of particular interest, because we are watching a political dialogue take place in a completely different climate from what we used to be used to in the last four and a half years. And, usually, the political climate is exacerbated at the initiative of the opposition. We see, however, from the point of view of today's Members of the House and of the Ministers, a different climate - I must admit that - and a different attitude with regard to their political speech. Perhaps one could talk about a complete transformation for specific persons. We have been struck by the conversion of the insults and the cries into a institutional turbulence. I wish, gentlemen, of the ruling party, that your transformation is a sign of practical reciprocity and a turn in political culture. I see that, however, relatively difficult. Now, you know, I've been doing a lot with Mr. Chakaloto and he's taught me British sayings. One of them says: "You cannot teach an old dog new tricks". So I've been watching you these days. We're watching you, but we'll see on the way if this transformation is essential. But let me begin with a very substantial remark in relation to some of your interviews, Mr Mitsotakis, and your political speech here in this House, but above all in some of your interviews in an international media that you are constantly going out and saying that you have defeated populism and the extreme right. For the extreme right let me take it as a bad joke, with so many executives that you have next to the former People's Orthodox Alert. But I would like to say a few words about your constant reference to populism. I think it is worth standing a little longer, and I say this, because in this Chamber, but also outside it, we have heard it all for three and a half years. You have been asking for elections for three and a half consecutive years. Every time we fought critically abroad to close difficult reviews, you anticipated that we would fail. You turned right and left and said we were destroying the economy and throwing the country on the rocks, while you knew well that through a very difficult effort we made, we were putting in tracks a derailed economy. While you were aware that we have achieved the objectives, you have constantly distributed and predicted that there will be no suffering, that we will not catch the targets, that the surpluses will not come out, that it will be implemented - remember then - the notorious budget cut, which you denounced with passion. It has never been implemented, but later you have proposed that it be done in the Constitution of the country. Later, when you realised that our efforts were fruitful, and when you realised that we were coming out of the memorandum, you started the theory that not only will we not go out, but that we signed a fourth, then betting with absolute certainty that pensions would be cut. And when that didn't come out of you either, you started another theory that we'd never get out on the market. And not only did we come out, but we also have the lowest interest rate since the 10-year-old bond variability began to be recorded. Today I wanted to ask myself, because I hear you constantly talking about populism, populism, populism for political opponents, this: Have you ever thought about making your self-criticism about this kind of opposition that you have exercised? For four years you liars brought us up, liars downloaded us, deliberately overlooking that we were the only government in a period of memorials that put herself in the crisis of the Greek people in September 2015, with the agreement on the table and not under the table. You even accused us - and at this point, at the most extreme point of trembling - of the tragedy in Matti, but then you had no problem getting to your government the Chief of Police who handled the tragedy. The worst of all, though, is that you did not hesitate to embrace ethnicism, to become Macedonians of bad time, obviously adopting opinions you did not believe in them either. You prove it today and I'm happy about it. I'm not saying, I'm glad you don't believe them. Since you have succeeded in becoming Prime Minister, it is a pity that you did not believe them. Let's find them with the people you cheated on. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But this attitude proves that you did all this for voting reasons. You have been covering those days in nationalism, in division, in hatred, even against elected representatives of the Greek people and all that you have done for voting reasons. You have left nothing that you have not done as Head of the opposition. You have done almost everything and you are now coming to tell us that in this election campaign you have defeated populism. It's too much! I would therefore like to inform you that you have not defeated any populism. You have often fuelled populism and made it, especially in the last year with the Macedonian, driving force behind the prospect of your electoral prevalence. And this option will follow you, because they have collapsed everything you set up as a record in the past two years on the country's two key issues for the last four years, the economy and foreign policy, where we crashed, the ones with our things, you with the misunderstanding. But since I was particularly interested in your reference to Kipling the other day, let me refer to another favorite, also British writer, to understand our difference. So Orwell wrote that “in the moments of deception, telling the truth is revolutionary”. In a sense, therefore, our attitude in those days on a critical national issue has had a revolutionary character, as has our attitude today on economic issues. I want to start with the issues of the economy, so we can get things back in order. We since last September, immediately after the end, the country's exit from the memoranda, have put in place a plan for a new economic policy, based on support for growth and the reduction of burdens on medium-sized strata and public ranks. This plan had three phases. The first was at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition last September, with a package of reductions of about EUR 1 billion of permanent measures for 2018, which we voted on and implemented all. We voted together, you voted together. Revenue subsidy for three hundred thousand households, a reduction in contributions for freelance professionals, a 10% reduction in mid-weight HNPI, a hire of four and a half thousand in special education, three thousand in "Help at Home", abolition of a trade fee for cooperative farmers and agricultural cooperatives. Also, at the end of 2018, we paid EUR 1 billion for retrospective mandates, judiciary and university, special wages. We have also paid a social dividend of EUR 700 million and, on 1-1-2019, cancelled the pension cuts imposed by the International Monetary Fund of EUR 1.8 billion. The second package of reductions was the one we legislated in 2019, this year, EUR 1.14 billion: the reduction of value added tax in the focus from 24% to 13%, the reduction of energy VAT at the over-popular rate of 6%, the provision of about EUR 820 million Easter, in the form of a permanent tenth pension. The third package was 2020. The abolition of the tax which we have voted on here - you are absent, we have not voted together - from EUR 1-1-2020, EUR 1.8 billion, as well as the reductions for 2020 of EUR 1.4 billion. I would remind you what these reductions are: the reduction of tax advances from 100% to 50%, the abolition of the solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20,000 and a radical reduction in incomes of more than EUR 20,000, the increase in the investment depreciation rate to 150%, the subsidies for insurance companies and young workers, the reduction of VAT from 13% to 11%, tax reductions for island residents, the reduction of cooperatives' tax to 10%, the reduction in heating costs for mountain areas, the deduction from taxable income for housing loans. All this completely costly. If, therefore, we sum up all the measures that we have voted on and implemented, together with this 1.4 billion permanent measures announced for 2020, we have EUR 7 billion permanent relief measures for 2018, 2019 and 2020 and some 1,7 billion one-off payment at the end of 2018. Was that, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth memorandum? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The 7 billion permanent measures since we got out of the memos and 1.7 one-off payments? Obviously not. That was the very end of the memorials. Of course, of these 7 billion - I repeat - we have already voted and implemented them. How did you baptize all this? Obviously, you never recognized that we were out of the crisis or that we were able to get out of strict surveillance, that we were out of the memos, never. All you've done was baptize all these "sexuality". And you came the other day, I don't know if you understood it, and during your speech you confirmed what I said, that you have no chance of blaming this government - it would be funny - that you received burnt land and chaos, as we might have heard before. But you came back the other day and said you'd do the big twist, that's to say, do the fucking backwards. You know, sometimes when one watches rhythmic gymnastics, it doesn't matter if you move forward or backwards, but how you land. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So we have watched you try, almost celebrate why you are going - it says - the discount of HNVIA 300 million more than we had calculated for 2019, to ease the most wealthy. And then I'll say about it. Congratulations, we are. Hosanna! So we've already implemented 7 billion in less than a year and you've been telling us about a fourth memorandum and you've brought 300 million discounts, more than we've brought for the 2019 ENPY and you're about to set arches of triumph to pass underneath. But, let's see, you're going to pass under the arches, or are you finally going to go down that low cubit you've put in? Here we are to see it in a few months. Here we will be, and the citizens will judge you on the basis of your works and things, and not on the basis of pleasant reports of ideas. But allow me to stay a little longer explaining how we were able to achieve these reductions, how we managed instead of a fourth memorandum, which you were telling us, to create a framework that all Greek citizens today realise that the country is in a new reality. Why could we do that? Because we have managed to ensure fiscal stability, we have managed to achieve the objectives of the programme and we have created - the truth with the sacrifices of the Greek people - a liquidity pillow and the assistance of the ESM, of course, of almost 37 billion euros, which is our passport at the same time on the markets. The country returned to the markets with a regulated debt, with a historically low loan interest rate to a large extent thanks to this guarantee of 37 billion. So what did we do? In order to ensure that from 2020 onwards, not just will we have good management, to achieve goals and to have a big stack in public funds, but this will gradually begin to become a reality that the average Greek citizen feels in his pocket. What we did was take 5.5 billion out of 37, say that some of them will go first for the quick repayment of the IMF, about 3.6 billion, and 5.5 of them will go to a special account as a guarantee that from 2020 to 2022, the three more years that we have the high target of 3.5% - high, but much less than what you, Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos, 4,2 and 4.5 had signed - we will ensure that our creditors get their money, but that we will be able to have up to 2.5% target from 2020 onwards, without breaking the agreement. So, in fact, what we have done was to maintain a large stockpile, which is the pillow and the guarantee that we will continue to go out at a low interest rate on the markets, but at the same time at the same time to drive away from us the International Monetary Fund, the strictest partner, who has constantly insisted on the implementation of unnecessary measures, as has been the case, most of which are unpopular, and at the same time have the opportunity to substantially reduce the surpluses by 1% and bring them to 2.5% from 2020 onwards. You have rejected this plan, Mr Mitsotakis, before you even discussed it with our partners, before you even claim it, before they tell you whether or not they like it, and you have, you say, another plan, which we have not seen, nor obviously have you told the lenders, from what they see the light of publicity. So I asked you the day before yesterday in my first speech, and I repeat: do you really think there will be another time, after one and a half, after two and a half years, which will have a greater negotiating power towards the partners today than you have just been elected and with the opposition to support you in this claim? Unless you're not going to claim something and you're just saying air words today and you're mocking us. Here we will be, not in the distant future, here we will be in the autumn, because in the autumn you do not only have the obligation to bring the 2020 budget in, where we will see in whether there will be the permanent provision of the Easter gift, the thirteenth pension, whether there will be tax-free in 9%, which you say, from 8,600 or you will get it lower, whether there will be a given budgetary balance, the non-implementation/reduction of personal differences in pensions or whether you will put your hands on pensions. They are questions and they are questions that arise because, on the basis of the current data, if you do not take advantage of what we planned, it is a lot of money, it is 2.5 to 3 billion, the equivalent charges that you need to find in 2020. But you have not only to deposit the 2020 budget in the autumn, you also have to deposit in the medium term, which will show exactly what you are planning and adopting, not only for 2020, but also for 2021 and 2022. So what surplus will you calculate - in the fall you have to answer this, not in a year and a half - in 2021 and in 2022? We'll be right here. In short, however, what I mean to say is that lying has short feet. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Yes, you are laughing now, but you will probably not laugh in the fall, when you come here to vote for charges on a people who have been afflicted for eight years in a row of monumental policies. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And of course, then, for all of us there was - and it was not an excuse, it was a reality - the country's bankruptcy. When it's your choice, I don't know how much you're gonna laugh. We'll see. We'll be right here. But you should be aware that here we are not talking about a theoretical issue, because it is possible for the citizens who are listening to us in the debate on the surpluses to sound a little theoretical about economists. What we are actually talking about here is the immediate relief measures for the entire Greek society, which appear to be not data. So I do not know exactly when you will end up with what you will do with the surpluses, but you must immediately reply and answer specifically what we have voted on and what we have done with what we have started and announced. Will you cancel what we've legislated? Will you cancel what we announced in 2020? Will you bring new austerity measures to get 2020 targets - I repeat, on the basis of what the General Accounting Office predicts, not us - between 2.5 and 3 billion? Let's go down. ENVIRONMENT: We have all said that we have had our congratulations and congratulations, but to add 300 million more, I will not tell you what Mr Stournaras, the Governor of the Bank of Greece - when we voted a month and a half ago the measures for 2019, which said that there is no financial space and we will be derailed, now suddenly the things have changed, and Mr Stournaras has discovered that there is, but I will not criticise you on this - but I will make you critical of this: we would prefer these 300 million to give them to strengthen middle-stage real and weak, those affected by the crisis. What are you doing? Do you maintain our proposal, what we have voted on, for a 30% reduction in HISBIA in low-income assets, which means what, in other words, people understand? That a house in a popular neighborhood of value, for example, EUR 60,000 - you like it, and the West Athens that you put... but you said that Piraeus is West Athens, say in Keracini, which one might say is also Western - which, on the basis of which, therefore, this project pays EUR 60,000 EUR 224, this year will pay 157. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It will indeed have our own proposal and yours, after you keep it, EUR 77 discount. But what is innovation? With these 300 million added to the budget, a house in the Caucasus of two hundred and fifty square meters worth close to 1 million and that was to pay HISPIA 6,950 euros, will pay 6,250 euros, that is, 700 euros less. In short, 77 euros discount in Keratsini, 700 euros discount in Katali. That's your policy. You give a few people and a lot of them. A few and a lot of them! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And, of course, the few in many and many in few are a strategy that seems to have been announced, because you have also announced that HISPIA should go to the municipalities as a whole. There too, we have very serious reservations, first of all, because there is a question of constitutional seriousness, but beyond that and of substance. Because with this logic, two-speed municipalities will eventually be created, since the strong municipalities, the rich municipalities will have much higher revenues, despite the reductions that you will make to HNPH in these municipalities, and of course the popular districts will have much less revenue and therefore two-speed municipalities will be created. We, Mr Mitsotakis, therefore, consider that it is not a policy that unites the Greeks, it is not a fair fiscal policy, it is not a fair tax policy, and we believe, on the contrary, that you should see how you can all alleviate those who really need to be brought down first. I come to a second, very important, in my opinion, issue. You mentioned in your Programming Declarations the term ‘enlargement of the tax base’. You told us that you would do that, he says, through electronic transactions and the fight against tax evasion. All right, we're with you, I wish you could do it. We did it with plastic money - which, throughout Greece, transactions are now made with plastic money - and we have done so to a very large extent. I wish you could do more. But don't be foolish, broadening the tax base, especially for those who know how to communicate with the institutions all these years, means another thing, and, if you don't know it, you too now, let me tell you. For Mr Regling, your interlocutor, and many of them from the International Monetary Fund, as well as your colleagues, Mr Stagiora, in the Eurogroup on 12 September, the concept of broadening the tax base is linked to a measure, which the International Monetary Fund had proposed, and we voted not to apply from 1-1-2020, that is, duty-free, tax-free. I want to be clean with you in this regard. And I want you to be clean to us and to the Greek people. Because if your plan is to re-establish the reductions we have secured and bring new equivalent charges, by reintroducing the tax reduction from 2020, even if you intend to put 9%, but to reduce from 8,600 and bring it to 5,50, this will be a very great setback, which will not pass that way. The Greek people will understand it and the last Greek will understand it, because the reduction in duty will hit the weak, but all of them. All of them! I also heard your recruitment plan for special treatment. And I would also like to point out that you were kind enough to say that it started from us. Yeah, we voted for it. Four and a half thousand recruits were scheduled for special treatment. But I have not heard you say anything - and I say it in your closure - about the remaining ten thousand five hundred permanent staff employed in schools. You know, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, we are not honoured by a very large part of the teaching hours to be covered by alternates. This is not happening anywhere in Europe at such a large rate in any European country. We had therefore proceeded with a project for 15 000 recruitment in secondary education, four and a half thousand in special education and ten thousand in other fields, to other teachers. We need an answer for that. Also, I heard you announcing two thousand hirings to health. We had secured space for ten thousand health recruitments by 2022. I don't know exactly what I can imagine, that you're going to carry out this design, or you won't implement it, and you're only staying in two thousand? I would ask you to clarify this, because I believe that your answers are answers that the opposition is not only expecting. They wait with anguish doctors, nurses, teachers, teachers. They are very anxiously waiting for answers to these issues. And of course you will tell us whether you will implement what you have actually announced in the election, when you return to 1 to 5, on one in the intake for every five departures. Ladies and gentlemen, I have raised two more critical issues in my initial position, which I believe are still in need of answers. And I will insist, because the loose ends in these matters I believe it also affects the lives of each Greek family. The first is exactly what you're planning with PPC. Four years we kept PPC up, despite the difficulties, without increasing the electricity tariffs, without privatising IPTO, without selling 17% of PPC, without moving to the "small" project, which gave all the fillets and especially hydroelectricity to private individuals. But I repeat that for us the most important thing is that we did not increase tariffs, unlike what happened between 2011 and 2014, which the Samaras government had increased prices cumulatively 60%. I think you should clearly say what your plan is. We have delivered a reality, I am not saying that it is inappropriate, but I say that we have maintained publicity and prices. We are concerned to talk about the need to privatise the networks even the TEDO, the company's only profitable pole along with the hydroelectrics, which you also had in sight in the previous periods. And I ask: How much resources can one efficiently draw from PPC's only fortune, which pays EUR 350 million every year net EBITDA? Secondly, what does the privatization of a natural monopoly mean? What will be the next day for PPC and its lending without values and without property? Have you evaluated how the segregation and the transition of the ices with an undeemable value of EUR 3.5 billion can take place? I think that serious answers are needed here, and I really think that it is an anachronistic and short-sighted policy that says we should sell as much as, as much as, without new investments and without the Public Power Corporation holding the so-called 'fillets', they can produce profit in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u262	Excuse me, Mr. President. How much longer do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u263	Three minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u264	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u265	The second issue to which I shall ask you once again to give an answer, Mr Mitsotakis, is insurance. We hear your members talking, but I think you should give specific answers to the insurance, because a lot has been heard. Every pensioner and every employee in this place must know exactly what you intend to do. And allow me two further remarks on matters, which I consider to be important. First of all, the simple analogue. I've heard the Minister in charge. It is certain that one must have fought for the simple analogue to know how to demolish it! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, I want to tell you two things. The first is that you have not even let it apply in practice, in life, the new framework of the municipalities and you have reached conclusions, that they cannot function, that there will be insolence, that there will be no level of cooperation and understanding. We consider that there is a need for shocks and consensus and, above all, at local level. You, before you see the results, have come to a conclusion, because you obviously have allergy with the authentic representation of citizens. And I don't know if what you're planning is in accordance with the Constitution. However, as far as the simple analogues are concerned, i.e. the electoral law with which elections are to be held, I will tell you something. Look, first of all, what you were saying beforehand about the intergovernmental scenarios - because they would need three and four and five parties - the result of the elections itself disproves it. If you sit down, you will see that on the basis of the result of the elections New Democracy and KINAL - which before the elections said would vote for you, even if it did not participate in the government, it would support you - you would have 50 and two seats. In any case, because these issues are very serious institutional issues, if you want to know what the electoral system will be, we are here to talk. But toys of institutional stunts with the Constitution not to attempt, Mr Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I'm so sorry for those who suggest it to you! Finally, with regard to the vote of Greeks abroad, on the legislative initiative of our government, a committee has been set up that has come up with a specific proposal. This committee was with very serious scientists. Bring this proposal as a basis for discussion. Bring this proposal, however, and we will be here to discuss it. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the President of SYRIZA is ringing.]] I would therefore like to close by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that you must open your papers with less perception and more awareness, Mr Mitsotakis - and that is my last word, Mr President - that no Prime Minister, nor you, nor you, is the permanent resident of the executive. The permanent owner is the Greek people and judges us all and will judge you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You know, it does consider us strictly, indeed, if we disprove his expectations, but much more strictly if he realizes that we do not even claim, if he realizes that we are not even fighting to confirm these expectations, perhaps believing that there is no mistake in the removal from the fund. So I warn you not to attempt this. In any case, we'll be here and see how you go. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA is voting against the Programming Declarations and why we disagree on the substance with what has been directly said, but above all because we are deeply concerned about what has been diligently hidden, about what has not been diligently said in this sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u266	The Minister of State Mr George Gerapetritis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I would like to thank the House. I wanted to point out in my first speech as a member of the new government that I feel particularly honored and thrilled to be in this sacred area of democracy and to point out that the purpose of current governance will be to upgrade the institutions as a whole so that democracy can find a modern footprint. To highlight from the outset the fact that current governance has acted in a way that has no precedent. The speed at which the state political mechanism was carried out, the speed at which the necessary decrees and decisions were adopted, so that the administration can function on the first day, is a unique phenomenon in Migration. In fifteen days, actions were completed, which took six or more months in previous governments. And, of course, I should like to point out that there is an absolute readiness and maturity so that the necessary legislative texts can be tabled so that the country can function. Already before the closure of the Parliament, which is scheduled for 10 August, three bills will be submitted, concerning the final state, the tax administration and arrangements concerning the local government agencies and other urgent provisions, so that this institutional reopening can take place. The first, in particular, bill, which symbolically chose the current government to be about the organization of the state and the state, is a piece of legislation that did not exist, was missing from Greek public life. For the first time an overall governance legislation is introduced, a governance manual, which is based on three axes. These are: we change the government, we trust the administration and we update the House as a whole. As far as the government is concerned, we're changing the management model as a whole. Unfortunately, the Ministerial Council, as it did in Post-Population, was nothing different from a collective instrument for legitimising previous decisions. It was not the constitutional role it has played and entrusted to it, which is the production of public policies. It will therefore be restored to the nature of the Ministerial Council as a key policy forum by collective procedures, by means of an organisational plan, which will operate within the government. And this programme, which will be produced by the Ministerial Council and which will function at regular intervals and will have a specific mandate each time, will be monitored by a central system of governance, so that any project undergoes can be monitored at any time, to see if there are any delays and to have the necessary coordination of the government work. These are innovative tools, which in foreign legal classes, advanced, are self-evident, but unfortunately in Greece they have been delayed for decades. Of course, for the first time - and this is one of the paradoxes of Greek political life - they will be introduced at the level of the Minister, the Deputy Secretary-General, the Secretary-General as a whole, a web of rules of impartiality so that all these political positions will be blocked and incompatible at the time the post is held and proactively, after the end of the government service. We trust the administration! Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with interest to what has been said by the opposition about the administration's politicisation and partyisation operation. With all due respect, you will allow me to say that the exact opposite is true. And that I reserve to demonstrate by depositing the draft law on the final state. The first question was raised in connection with the alleged abolition of the secretaries-general. Law No.4369/2016, a law brought about by previous governance, provided for a procedure, which basically brought the AACC to propose three candidates and, ultimately, the Minister chose the Secretary-General. What was the fate of this process? A single Secretary-General was appointed for three years. Who was that secretary General? The one who previously held the post as a appointed Secretary-General. A system that failed. Instead, the final state will have a new arrangement, which introduces a uniform degree of secretary-general, that is to say a secretary from the administration itself, a public career employee, who will have all the administration, the economy and coordination and will come under the procedures of the IASC, working procedures provided for by the Boards of Directors under an impartial procedure and will, of course, be subject to the Public Service Code. This is a complete depopulation and this - you will allow me to say that - in my humble opinion is the greatest innovation, which will come to Greek public life, as a critical mass of administrative material is transferred from political leadership to service administration. How's that gonna happen? It will be done as follows: In principle, all administrative acts of a specific nature, which so far have reached the level of the Minister or the State Secretary, will now be adopted as a rule at the level of the administration. In other words, the Director-General, who comes from the administration, who will express the continuity of the administration and will not be subject to changes from any political treaty, will finally decide on the adoption of the act by his signature. Imagine what economy this means from the point of view of the bureaucracy and the time that it will take. The decisions will be taken by the administration. We trust publicity. I have heard with real and genuine questions that we are supposed to abolish control mechanisms, i.e. the Economic Crime Corps, the Labour Inspectors' College and the Environment and Energy Inspectors' Corps. I wondered why he was completely untrue. And I was amazed to hear this because this is precisely the follow-up to what the previous government started, which was governed by Law No.4336/2015, then the current government itself, with the agreement of the then opposition and current government majority, transferred all tax controls from the political leadership to the tax administration. What he has done at that time, we are extending it today as follows: Instead of all the control bodies being subject to a political chief, who is the Special Secretary or the Secretary-General, he will instead be subject to the management of careers, to the Director-General. All the audit bodies will no longer receive a political mandate, but will only have an administrative hierarchy. That's the genuine demilitarization. Of course, we are introducing a system which is very strong, in the standards of the English administrative system, with a single transparency authority, which controls the entire administration with guarantees of full independence and impartiality. Finally, we are introducing a prospect of upgrading the House. Ladies and gentlemen, my own short story, particularly academic, is based on the support of the representative system and Parliament. It is what I have dealt with for twenty years and for which I feel I am accountable to both society and my students. It's a personal bet. I'm the one with my favourite channels. I've got Parliament's channel. I am one of the few who watched it, and today I will have the honour of being part of this process, but it is our bet that the upgrading of the House and I already feel that we have taken a step. At the Prime Minister's initiative, the parliamentary practice of all post-population has changed. On the first day of the Programming Declarations, instead of having a sterile reading of the Programming Declarations by the Prime Minister, what did we have? We had a genuine extensive dialogue, which was the Prime Minister and the entire opposition. But he did so consciously because this consultation promotes parliamentary work. In addition, what is true is that we will fight to the extent that we are allowed to combat this pathology, what we call'major parliamentaryism'. We will never come to Parliament to say that we are right, because we are more. We will not. We will come to give rights to opposition and will be able through this productive dialogue to reach the best legislature. Our writing samples are very specific. We have proposed in the Constitutional Review - and it has been widely accepted - that the committees of inquiry can also be convened by the opposition individually. This is a great concession, which comes from our conscious choice. And, of course, what is true is that there will be a wide-ranging grid of codifications and simplifications of existing legislation and very strict rules for good legislature. All this will be reflected in the constitutional review process, which is due to begin shortly, because our conviction is that there should be, even in the limited context set by the proposed Parliament, a very substantial constitutional revision. We will not accept the phenomena of a constitutional express review, as happened in the previous House, with only eighteen meetings of the parliamentary committee and two meetings in plenary. We will, hopefully, have a full consultation. Finally, Mr President, allow me one final reference to the ancient Greek secretariat. Plutarchus said that there are two categories of people involved in public life: there are demagogues and politicians. It is the demagogues who are addressing those who will vote in the next election and may put measures only to mock their ears a few days before the elections. And there are politicians who think and express, not only today's generation but also next generations. I would like to assure you, as far as I am concerned, that we will be the voice of today, but above all of the next generations in our opinion and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u268	The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stagiras, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, on 7 July the citizens decided. They decided on a political change. They gave a strong command for governance to the New Democracy with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The Prime Minister assigned me the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance. From this position I thank him for the honour, as well as I thank the citizens of Fthiotis for their own long-term confidence. It's a great honor, but it's also a great responsibility. I promise I will work honestly and hard to honor this trust! Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is an integral and active member of the European Union, the West, the international community. Its economy works in a global environment characterised by liquidity, geopolitical correlations, trade protectionism movements, volatility in financial markets. Its economy operates in a European environment characterised by structural deficiencies, weaker growth forecasts, massive population movements, demographic challenges, a gap of innovation and entrepreneurship, increased populism. This external environment, on the one hand, poses uncertainties, risks and threats, on the other hand, gives the Greek economy opportunities and the Greek economy, which, on the basis of the global financial crisis, was surrounded both by time-consuming pathogens that suffered as well as endogenous and exogenous errors, was led to the support mechanism. For ten years it has been on a dry acne at high social and economic cost. From these ten years, in the last four and a half because of creative ambiguity, illusions and ideas, valuable time has been lost and the effort of previous years has been undermined. And because Mr. Tsipras talked about things, yes, to talk about things. Away from delusional. To speak away from drawings on paper that were never written to the lenders. To speak frankly, indeed, because it has been mentioned in the tax reductions that the government itself has voted for. To talk about the tax-free, the tax-free that the government itself voted for and, in fact, took back. Not to talk about the first reduction in duty on SYRIZA and who had said that if that were the case, they would resign. Let's put aside the past. There's evidence here. Today, however, the Greek economy is - and this is true - under the enhanced supervision of its lenders and we are the only country that has come out of the programmes and is under enhanced supervision. Her growth records low flights. Unemployment is still high. Budgets are at a volatile balance. Competitiveness disappears. Real production capacity shrinks. Private debt is growing every month. Non-performing loans remain high. The country has not returned to an investment grade. The liquidity of public bodies, including PPC, has deteriorated. The public's obligations have not been cleared. The Public Investment Programme is undermined and the capital restrictions remain. Ten years are long and returning to normality is still a matter of urgency. However, despite all its weak points, mistakes, omissions, delays, the Greek economy still has quite strong points. The Prime Minister, the Government and the financial staff with the strategic plan for the country are trying, on the one hand, to maximise the comparative advantages of the internal and external environment and, on the other hand, to minimise the weaknesses of the internal and external environment. There is an irresponsible will to bear the heavy burden of the history of this fact for an equal, active and reliable participation of the country in developments. Our aim is for Greece to become a fully normal European country. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know the problem of the economy, and we are all experiencing it. The citizens' crisis is still fresh. We detect wrong policies, errors and omissions and plan to correct them. For my part, I will give weight to the present and the future. I will pursue the best possible political, social and parliamentary convergences, compositions and consents. I'll act with responsibility and respect. I will discuss without prejudice, within and outside Parliament, the design and implementation of best policies, to strengthen the available income of all citizens, especially the economically weaker people. The financial staff in all the policies they are planning and will implement has as a guide the constant quest for a balance between efficiency and equality, between economic efficiency and social sensitivity. Our primary goal of growth. Growth at a higher rate, with healthy public finances, with a stable banking sector, covering the investment gap, with outward orientation, with digital footprints, with ever-increasing full-time jobs, with a fairer distribution of the wealth produced, with prosperity for all and all. In particular, firstly, the growth rate of the economy. It is assumed that the economy after falling after the positive pace of 2014 into a recession for two years, has been in a growth process, but at anemic rate, below the estimates. In the first quarter of 2019 real GDP increased by just 1.3% compared to that of last year, while international organisations, all international organisations, are reviewing their estimates for the year downwards. Our programming commitment is to increase and maintain at high levels the growth rate of the Greek economy. It is to improve the connection of wealth with an emphasis on investment and extroversion. It's his fairest distribution. All our policies, fiscal, structural and institutional, will be oriented towards achieving these objectives. Secondly, public spending. Our programme commitment is to assess public spending, investment, projects and policies. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. It is the definition and implementation of realistic expenditure ceilings in all ministries. It is the promotion of accounting reform. It is the implementation of the Public Investment Programme. I would like to point out that the debt of all the general government bodies is to fully respect their budgets. And, Mr Varoufakis, the recruitment we have said is within the budget. They're set. Third, tax system. This, it is a fact, over time, has weaknesses. However, the government which has come forward has used it, through the overtaxation of households and businesses, as a tool to achieve unnecessarily overcrowded surpluses. The result? The result is to increase private debt and not achieve development goals over the years. Citizens' tax debts are currently at EUR 104 billion, increased by 46% from the end of 2014. Our programme commitment is a new tax policy with a development dimension and social concern, without jeopardising the fiscal stability of the country. To this end, the first tax bill of the new government, which has three priorities, is immediately submitted: Priority: The immediate and significant reduction of HISPIA. The first dose in September will be reduced by 22%. No one is excluded from the tax reduction, but it is not a horizontal one, Mrs Gennamas and Mr Varoufakis. Particular care is taken for our weakest fellow citizens and the middle class. For small property up to 60,000 euros the relief will be 30%. From EUR 60,000 to EUR 70,000 it will be 27%, from EUR 70,000 to EUR 80,000 it will be 25%, from EUR 80,000 to EUR 1,000,000 it will be 20% and for the very large estates it will be 10%. And this is where the populism of the officer's opposition begins, which Mr. Tsipras said to forget. How many are over 1,000,000 euros? There are fourteen thousand eight hundred forty, one taxpayer in seven million three hundred thousand taxpayers. You're referring to them. And how much is the benefit? It will be EUR 22 million at EUR 465 million. And you're saying we give a lot to a few? It is EUR 22 million at EUR 465 million. All the help is at low incomes and in the middle class, which you have ignored for four years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So we immediately relieve millions of owners and stimulate the purchase of real estate. And all of this - I stress it - in terms of portability and proportionality. In addition, to understand it, the New Democracy is the fact that over time and in effect represents the people's forces. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Second priority: Improving and extending the existing institutional framework for the regulation of 20 instalments. The minimum monthly payment is reduced from EUR 30 to EUR 20, so that more debtors can be consistent with the arrangement. The rate currently borne by households and businesses is reduced from 5% to 3%, both in order to avoid a great burden on the debtor and on grounds of equality with public debt. The regulation is widened by subjecting to it all legal persons having a basic debt of up to EUR 1,000 000. For those who are part of and remain in the arrangement, seizures and enforcement measures shall be suspended. Third priority: The cultivation of tax compliance. This extremely favourable regulation which will be voted on will be the last. I repeat, it will be the last. After it expires there will be a permanently reasonable and fair system of fixed arrangements that prevents the need to resort to exceptional arrangements. After our first tax bill, our programme commitment is to deposit a new, with a four-year implementation horizon, not in 2019 as you said, Mr Varoufakis. A stable fiscal framework, which will constitute an extensive and coherent reform, a reform that will simplify tax legislation by incorporating all the legislative changes that have taken place in recent years through the secondary legislation of the tax administration, the circulars and the jurisprudence of higher courts. It will provide for a gradual reduction in household and business tax rates, including a reduction in business tax from 28% to 24% for 2019 income. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It will incorporate the scattered tax incentives, including those to rebuild the real estate market and investing in research and innovation, mentioned by Mrs Gennamas. Will it strengthen corporate social responsibility initiatives and include measures that increase the income available - who? - workers. It will favour economies of scale for synergies, especially in the primary sector. It will increase transparency and predictability. It will clarify the concept of tax residence. It will strengthen the status of attraction of non-residents in Greece. Our programme commitment is a structured legislative intervention to buy games with emphasis on online betting. Finally, yes, our programme commitment is to extend the tax base by strengthening electronic transactions, by imposing mandatory electronic invoicing, by keeping electronic books, by electronicising income tax statements, by strengthening and collecting audit mechanisms, such as the ILO. A post of Director-General is hereby established which will be head of this audit authority, which will be chosen with absolute transparency and integrity by the hierarchy of the public administration and which will not be appointed by the government in question. Mr. Tsipras, it goes very much to move the finger to this government, when in your Program Declarations in 2015 you declared that you would receive moderately, as you said, 3 billion euros the first year of the fight against tax evasion, smuggling and black money. And finally, instead of 3 billion euros in one year, you received 400 million euros in four years. Well, cut off the hints when the actions are off the line. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, yes, Mrs Gennamas, in fact, tax reduction can also lead to more public revenue, because tax evasion will be reduced. When the government in 2014 reduced a number of tax rates, the gap from VAT, i.e. tax evasion from VAT, reached the lowest point for memorandum years, to regain your reporting for days. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, yes, lower tax rates may lead to more public revenues by reducing tax evasion. We, by adopting realistic expenditure ceilings, by assessing expenditure, by strengthening electronic transactions, by promoting public-private partnerships, by correct implementation of the framework of arrangements for late payments to private individuals, with the highest growth in the economy, having completely removed the capital restrictions, will create a financial space for further reductions from 2020 in taxes, a financial area, as the former Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, argued yesterday, has been exhausted by the government that has come to light. Fourthly: banking system. Unfortunately, in the summer of 2015, for reasons that we all know, there has been a third unnecessary recapitalisation, with which costs have been added to the public sector, the ownership structure of credit institutions has changed and the taxpayers have lost huge sums. Today, the banking system gradually recovers. But the challenges remain. Our programme commitment is that banks will be a re-engineering lever, through the relaunch of funding in a healthy way, of businesses and households. This will be done by strengthening the bank's assets. The key to this is to address the problem of red loans, which now amount to 45% of all of them. Thus, in addition to the objectives already set for credit institutions and which they must comply with, the Government will proceed both systemic projects drawn up by the Financial Stability Fund and the Bank of Greece. At the same time, however, we will also strengthen the passiveness of the banks. The implementation of our economic policy will restore the confidence of savers in credit institutions, prompting the return of deposits and the raising of funds from international markets. Already, the first samples are encouraging. Fifth: privatizations. In recent years, valuable time has been wasted and the country's credibility has been tested. Our programme is to speed up the agreed privatisation programme, but a programme, which will be part of a national development strategy, which will, among other things, strengthen the social footprint. We believe that militarisations can contribute to the development of the country when they are part of a national plan, are carried out under conditions of absolute transparency and incorporate social recompense. Not only do we regard them as a means of increasing public revenue, but above all as a catalyst for improving the competitiveness of the economy, for strengthening regional and local development, for creating many, good, quality jobs. Six: real estate. Private real estate has been devalued because of institutional intervention by the government, while in the field of public real estate, not only did it not achieve its best use, but even its reliable registration and management. Our programming commitment is to regain the value of each Greek property. Four are the pillars of intervention: firstly, a reduction in tax burdens to increase households' available income and a renovation of the market. Secondly, a reduction in administrative burdens to combat bureaucracy. Thirdly, we need to take institutional armouring measures for the property market in order to mature and upgrade it to the eyes of the investment community. Fourthly, an indication of the value of the public property through the best use of inert and devalued assets. Finally, seventhly, our relations with international capital markets. The cornerstone of our programming commitments is the upgrading of the Greek economy to investment grades, as well as the systematic, qualitative and low-cost loaning cost of the country from the markets, as was done last week with the successful issue of the seven-year bond, published, Mr. Tsipras, at the lowest interest rate since the country entered the euro, half of the corresponding 2018 issue. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As the Executive Director of the European Support Facility stated, this version - in introductory form -'recommends confidence' of the markets in the new government's economic policies. At the same time, we will also proceed with the procedures that you have explicitly initiated for the repayment of loans from the International Monetary Fund. This virtuous cycle with low borrowing costs, with the implementation of structural interventions, with increased investments, with an increase in liquidity, at a higher rate of growth will continuously strengthen the country's credibility. All of this will help to improve the sustainability of public debt, leading to the possibility of reducing primary surpluses. So, what we have said in an election today, both within and outside Greece and in a step - we are taking it seriously, documentation and self-confidence. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is clear that the sustainable recovery of the economy and the promotion of social and individual prosperity presupposes acceleration in order to cover the lost ground. But they all presuppose that we all show seriousness and credibility away from demagogues and populism, responsibility and insight, away from horror and opportunism. They require determination, confidence and efficiency, away from blind political games, ideologies and illusions. They require modesty and modesty, far from arrogance and arrogantness. They presuppose political morality and decency, away from meaningless slogans and political outrages. The road that we have been on for years remains awkward and upward. Easy solutions do not exist. Magic recipes don't exist. With responsibility, I invite you to work methodically, smartly and hardly. The debt to the homeland, the Hellenism and the younger generations requires us to walk the road towards the future, all together with national confidence, with a plan, hard work. I am realistically optimistic that we will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u270	Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u271	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this evening the three-day debate on the government's programming declarations is ending, a process open, democratic and certainly rich in reflection, which - let me conclude - went a step forward in the quality of the dialogue in the national Parliament. And that was for two reasons: firstly, because, for the first time in recent years, so many Members have spoken, but also the plenary sitting - because I have had the opportunity to follow the debate for a long time - was quite full. And that's comforting for the next House. The debate was indeed a three-day one, instead of a two-day one. And we gave the opportunity on the first day, instead of there being just one of the Prime Minister's monologues, to hear the views and positions of the other political leaders. Of course, we also watched the ministers and several of the State Secretarys present their planning by government. The climate, Mr. Tsipras, Mrs. Genemas, Mr. Chiefs, was indeed mild. I welcome this manifestation of a parliamentary political culture. We are here to discuss, to disagree, where necessary - and I am sure that we will disagree on many - but not against and certainly not on personal grounds. The many barren controversies have gone missing. A few miserable opposition paradoxes have been, but I cannot start by not making a first comment about the position of Chief of Officer Response. Mr. Tsipras, I'm going to ask you to enter the time machine and land on today. On 7 July there were elections and you lost them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And because you have made a reference to a series of public positions that I have argued about the end of populism in Greece, at least in this election cycle, I have to tell you that liars and populists do not tell you, the majority of the Greek people, who were put in their vote on 7 July. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And it's good, you know, now that you've changed your role, you change your spelling, because if you did everything as well as you present it, I imagine that the result of the elections would be different. A little self-awareness does not harm when you have suffered three election defeats within six weeks. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, I return to the political climate that has been shaped in this Chamber for three days. I have said many times, too, as Head of Representation, that our aim must be for politics to regain its right place in the conscience of the citizen. Above all, however, we all have a duty to give all the Members of the government a signal of optimism that something is finally changing in this country. Because now is the time to make a reality of the 21st century's self-powered Greece. Unified we can do it and we'll do it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This House must become the mirror of a country that is changing, a country that leaves behind the age of anger, pessimism, desperation and goes through the era of hope and creation. Let me also have a personal report. I am 15 years of MP, but for the first time I felt in this Chamber a different, more positive climate. And that is a duty for all of us, not just for the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, to support it. Yes, the people trusted us with their fates in our hands. Our responsibility and responsibility for my own personal responsibility are heavy. We are, however, fully aware of the importance of our mission. We will not deny citizens' expectations. Mistakes will be made, but dedication to the central objective will never be called into question. And I will not personally allow myself to spend a single day on which I will not make use of the power that the citizens have given me to make the lives of the Greeks better. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, since my first place, reading the schedule statements on Saturday, I was clear. I explained that I prefer actions to many words. I avoided the tradition of extremely long Programmatic Declarations, not because I had little to say, but because today the projects count much more than words. However, I am sure that the key message that has been sent out of this Chamber in this three-day debate has arrived in society and that, regardless of whether we were selected in the 7 July elections, we are following the concrete steps we are taking to implement our programme. Step one: The country gains stability internally and credible abroad and the constitutional review shields, further strengthens democratic normality and a new electoral law offers proportionality and governance. Yes, Mr Tsipras, when a party takes 40% it is justified to have an absolute majority in Parliament! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The Greek people's mandate may be for four years, but we know and I think we have proved it in the first 15 days that we do not have a day to lose. Step two: Since the time of taxes and poverty, we have gone to investment and jobs for everyone, to produce new wealth for everyone's benefit. ENVIRONMENT shall be reduced immediately. The relevant bill is passed as an urgent one next week. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And here, Mr Tsipras, I must tell you that you have surprised me with your argument that you were supposed to reduce burdens on the rich, the inhabitants of Ekali. Look at you, Mr. Tsipras, when we lighten HISVIA by 20% for all assets from 80,000 to 1,000,000, in which most are in the range of 80,000 to 250,000, we are not referring to the rich of Ekali. We are talking about the middle class, which you have done with your policy. And this middle class will be supported, because that is the command we have received from the Greek people! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And because you were particularly concerned about our negotiating strategy, about how to move forward, about the need to reduce the surpluses, which I would remind you that I was the first to raise in my speech at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki in 2016, so I repeat what I had said in the election because in our case you will see absolute consistency of words and works. I said, therefore, in an election, Mr Tsipras, that the reduction of surpluses will be possible when we effectively demonstrate our reformist potential. That is what we said in the election, and that is what we are insisting on today. And because you will hurry to give negotiation advice, I will remind you of something else. The story thus brought them, Mr. Tsipras, so that in this Chamber there are also the leaders of different groups, the twin of the destruction of the first half of 2015, you and Mr. Varoufakis! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] And you will give us advice on the negotiations, when in the first half of 2015, we combine the impartiality, arrogance and unprecedented inability, the complete contempt for the European institutions to lead the country to the edge of the cliff, to close the banks, to bring a third memorandum and finally to do under the pressure of the conditions an impressive piece of shit and the New Democracy is standing to keep the country in Europe. So, please, negotiating advice from you and Mr Varoufakis is not accepting this. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] Third step in our plan: Our state is changing and I consider it extremely important that our first bill relates to the state of the end and to the way in which we understand the functioning of the public administration. We will have the opportunity in the next two weeks to discuss the great innovations that this bill introduces, which you have rushed to deceive without even seeing it. So I ask you, and I ask you and Mrs Gennimata, which has restored the debate about allegedly partisan in public administration, as if her party had no past in this case: What better proof is there that we trust, Mr Gennimata, civil servants than to give to the directors-general who are chosen by merital procedures - which you have started, Mr Tsipras - the right to sign for individual acts? This is the real decoupling. This is the essential confidence in the public administration's yearbook, the directors-general, who will now be able to take responsibility for their actions instead of all ending up with the Minister, who adds his signature, without any substantial added value, only to often put his own political filter on an administrative decision. Step four of our plan. Education and health become absolute priorities, the first to bring young people to know and work, and the second to become a shield mainly of the weakest. That's why they're starting in there recruiting, along with the recruits we've announced in security. You referred to the four and a half thousand specialists. Indeed, I recognised in my first speech that you started these recruitments, except that you delivered them to us incompletely. There should be a huge road race from the Ministry of Education and from the ASP, so that these teachers can be in their seats when the school year begins. With regard to the recruitment of teachers' regular staff, the ten thousand five hundred, there is not a single euro entered in the budget. So it is very easy to announce recruitment when you knew you would lose the election, much more difficult for us to implement. We will, however, give absolute priority - as I have said in my protology, but you have obviously not noticed - in dealing with the problem of substitute teachers and in the long term this issue will be dealt with, because it is incomprehensible today that there should be substitute teachers who serve public education for ten, twelve, fifteen years and continue to live with the uncertainty of the annual renewal of their employment relationship. Step 5, for which you did not have much to say and have not been very critical. Neighbourhoods return to their residents, police officers return to the streets and, yes, prisons are being held again, because you have been criticised for the fact that the jurisdiction of penitentiary policy passes from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection, as if you didn't know for so long what is going on in the prisons, as if you didn't know how many people have been murdered in the Greek prisons, as if you didn't know that organized crime is actually being guided through prisons. Yes, we are forced to take this measure, because we are going to step on lawlessness in prisons, because for us security is an absolute political priority not negotiated and we will do what is necessary to ensure that Greek citizens feel safe. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, students and teachers are recovering from universities. The asylum of illegality, molotovs and narcotics is immediately abolished. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am very curious - because such an arrangement existed in Law 4009, which was voted on at the time by PASOK and New Democracy - what will KINAL now do, because I hear a number of things that you are supposed to think about changing your position on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u272	You're listening to your monitor, Prime Minister. Listen to what we in this House say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u273	I wish that this great section, which will allow universities to return to students, teachers and workers again, at least you will have allies. Step 6, Greece becomes strong and reliable in Europe and in the world. Because I have heard from a number of Members a criticism of the issue of the Prespecies Agreement and a alleged change of attitude, listen: it is good to get used to the fact that from now on in this Chamber there will be consistency between pre-election and post-election. I had said from this the Stepma that the Prespecies Agreement was a bad and harmful agreement. I had warned, however, from this moment on, that once it has been ratified it does not change unilaterally. We must strive to alleviate its negative consequences, taking advantage of the Skopje accession process as a lever to the European Union, supporting our Macedonian products, which you have left to their fate... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...and implementing a major, global communication campaign for genuine Macedonia. That's what I said and that's what I'm gonna do! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If, Mr. Tsipras, you don't want to put your back on, because you think the agreement you signed is so great, we'll do it ourselves. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, all this is nothing but the six programming truths I have spoken about in my prototype. They are being launched with ten bills, which will become laws of the state by the end of the year. The first three are the bills for the final state. The reduction of the ETUC and the hundred and twenty doses and the restoration of the smooth administration of the municipalities will have been submitted to the national Parliament within the next 10 days and will have been voted on by 10 August. The last bill will also include the abolition of illegality in universities. Our legislative initiative, however, is framed by all five flagship projects, which I spoke about two days ago, which are as follows: The unification and extension of the Archaeological Museum with the Metsovio Polytechnics and the historical Archaeological School. I stress at this point that we are discussing an extension of the museum without relocation of the Archaeological School. Besides, the proximity of the two institutions is an advantage. And for this particular project, we will work with the Republican authorities. The demolition of Korydallos prisons, in order to transform the area into a model altar, a breath for the entire region. I have already given directions to the Ministry of Citizen Protection to seek land within Attica, near the main roads, in which a new prison can be built, which will also welcome the prisoners of Korydallos. The development of the former Tatoi palaces as an area of culture, tourism and sport. The transformation of the old Drapetsona fertilizers into a green park and innovation. Finally, the overall upgrade of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, so that Thessaloniki will become a commercial, cultural, economic centre throughout the year. Ladies and gentlemen, with an active part in this three-day process I have seen - I imagine many others have found it - a relative discomfort in terms of counter-population. The honourable Members have raised a number of questions and it is quite reasonable to ask questions. I believe that both the ministers and I personally responded to what we could. Besides, don't worry. I intend to make use of the Prime Minister's time so that I can answer questions asked by the political leaders, but also by individual Members. I do not have the time to answer all the additional questions raised by the political leaders in their dentistry. However, I would like to focus on a specific issue, which concerns the Public Power Corporation. Mr. Tsipras, when you received PPC, it had a capitalisation of 1.7 billion. You handed it over by capitalisation, which was a little more than 300 million. And because people will rush around to say, like Mr. Tsakalotos or Mr. Varoufakis, that the capitalisation of a company is not necessarily an indication of its economic viability, of course I do not know many companies lose 80% of their capitalisation if they go brightly...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u274	Without IPTO, they were two companies in one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u275	If all this had happened, I imagine, Mr. Chakalote...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u276	Is IPTO not working?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u277	I imagine you would know the report by the independent auditor, who in his report states that the financial data of the company suggest the existence of material uncertainty, which might raise a significant doubt about the company and the group's ability to continue their activities. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the PPC which you have given us, Mr Tsipras, Mr Tsakalotes and the relevant ministers. And you have a huge responsibility to destroy the value of the largest Greek business! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Be more enthusiastic, then, in your questions and a little more self-critic about PPC’s mess, which you delivered to us in this tragic position! I am also committed, therefore, by this step, as the Minister responsible has done, to do what is necessary to save the business and protect jobs, and that will be without increasing the electricity tariffs for consumers! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And if it is necessary to sell some assets to save the company, we will do it, because otherwise it will go bankrupt and the workers will be unemployed and the energy system will collapse and it will be your fault! [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Take good care, then, when you talk about PPC. Because behind this incredible disaster, which you have caused, many responsibilities lie behind it. I don't have to say anything more. Several Members have spoken without even having heard what I had said, having ready-made speeches, without even taking into account my position and the tuna that I wanted to give to the debate. And some, few are, MPs wanted to invest their objections on so-called ideological criteria. So, class policies have again been remembered, they have resurrected the so-called neoliberalism of technocrats. They fell out. They were the same arguments that you used before the elections on 7 July and the citizens crushed them in the poll. The New Democracy of 2019 recommends to the Greeks a really progressive path for the future of the country and that is now our role. The people's mandate 15 days ago was a clear and mature one, to change course with the past and leave the management of misery behind, because the times have changed and the ideological differences are obviously not abolished. Under pressure, however, their borders are shifting. Because reality is becoming more and more complex, especially in countries that have been left behind for a long time, like ours. For example, at times the issue of security has indeed been an argument to impose the winners on the losers. Indeed, there have been times in Greek history that has been the pretext of power to consolidate itself against democracy. Today, however, the same subject has changed to a central demand of the daily citizen and, indeed, the weakest citizen, the oldest woman who wants to go around her neighborhood, the merchant in the center of Athens, who wants his shop not to be the raid of robbers, the student who wants to study freely at his school and the retired person who just wants to sleep in peace every night at home. The same dramatic changes are happening in the economy. No-one, centre-right, centre-left, liberal, socialist is questioning the need for a fair redistribution of the national product, and prosperity must be for everyone and not just a few. However, there is a good argument that there should be some sort of reductions in legislation in order to get there somewhere. The problem of the country is how to produce much more new wealth, so that it can then be distributed fairly. The growth, therefore, is strong growth as the new limit between maintenance and progress. Because, with stagnation, there are always the established interests, namely those who want to maintain their position of power and their prerogatives in new circumstances. In other words, Greece is changing, changing from below, society itself. And the New Democracy comes along with currents that are now clear majority in Greek society, to become the dominant political expression of those who are asking to make a bold leap in the future, to give substance to the term "progressive". And to those who rush to learn ideological controversy from the past centuries, I suggest attention. Their word is in danger of echoing as an echo from a time when it has passed unreturned. They're in danger of no one listening anymore. We are not in front of our times when we talk about technological revolution, about climate change. Just some others stayed behind and didn't get it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, this must be the perspective of the new Greece, a view in which they bury the doctrines of the past and clearly highlight the crucial issue of the times, and that is just one, the tangible result. History, after all, teaches that when the Greeks assembled around such a great goal, we were magnified. It is the liberal modernization, which Eleftherios Venizelos served first, a regeneration current that will eventually highlight the good side of each of us. And that is the concept of the New Government's Programmatic Declarations: Unity, plan, rules, work and, above all, practical solutions. To conclude, I would like to explain this last report, with a specific timely one, but also tragically painful ones. Tomorrow's one year from the national tragedy in Matty. Our state then proved not only incapable of protecting so many lives and property, it turns out, unfortunately, that it is unable even now to heal some of the major wounds. EUR 37.8 million has been deposited in the special firefighting account so far by two thousand seven hundred natural or legal persons. One year later, however, 31 million are pouring - yes, they are ponding - with the first few days of disbursement being made before the elections. At the same time, of the four hundred seventy-five buildings to be demolished, only sixty-one were demolished and this was on the initiative of construction companies. Many of the affected want to buy another real estate, but they cannot, because the demolition must be completed in order to receive the aid. The deforestation of asbestos, the cleaning of land in New Buja and the projects of the region other than the anti-corrosions that have gone ahead, as well as many projects of the central administration. Of the two thousand four hundred thirty rehabilitation applications, only four hundred forty were issued. We already have a full picture of the situation, a picture of which, of course, cannot be prided by anyone who had power up to two weeks ago. Our answer wants to honor the memory of the hundreds of victims, give a substantial hand to help the affected and yes, learn from the mistakes of the past, but above all send a message that the state can function differently. We can raise our heads, we can bring results, we can be better. Therefore, firstly, by means of a legislative act, immediately after today's vote, the central administration is able to intervene in circumstances of natural disasters. And this will allow direct high-policy moves, using the special account's money, with the first move to clean up this land in which a huge amount of fuel has been collected... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ... for which the General Secretariat of the Government has already contacted all major construction companies and has asked them to clean up the relevant plot without any charge for the Greek State, under corporate social responsibility. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In the same legislative act, it is set up as a new body, a non-profit-making company. It participates with their representatives, first of all, the great volunteers of local society, whom I salute and thank from the heart for their devotion to their work. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The Court of Auditors, the General Accounting Office of the State, the Bank of Greece, the Technical Chamber, the Ministry of the Environment and Infrastructure and the General Secretariat of the Government shall participate. And the mission of this new body will be to draw up an action plan to restore the area in Matti, New Buja and Kineta - we have forgotten about it, because it has also been affected - and the suggestions made by this body will constitute the operational renewal plan for the area that will enter into force immediately. And yes, we trust the local community in the area's livelihood in Matti to point to us where the donor's money should be directed. That means change from below up. That means trusting the citizens who, above all, know their own problems. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thirdly, the Ministry of Health has already ensured that our fellow citizens, with heavy burns, do not only have access to medicines - they already had access to them - but also to any other medical provision, which, unfortunately, was not covered by the EEA regulation. We're talking about 50 and eight of our fellow citizens. Many practically saved the teeth. For many intensified people it was certain that they would not survive, yet, they were able to live and live today their own separate drama. They don't just have burns that will accompany them all their lives, they have great scars in their souls. And the least we can do is, with some simple moves, stand by them and tell them that they have the right to hope that they will rebuild their lives. And fourthly, we are entrusting the TEI with the priority of a new pilot project for integration in the region in order to solve problems of decades. Under normal circumstances, that would take from three to five years. I request that it be done within a year and completed before the second black anniversary of the tragedy in Matty. Ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen to close my speech not by general declarations, as usual, but by talking about something very specific, speaking about Matty. Because that is precisely what symbolizes the way to rectify, with the participation of all of us on the basis of a planned plan. This is the way Greece is being called today to follow, with a catalyst's role, which will effectively and dynamically trigger all the creative forces of the country. The country is facing a huge challenge today, overcoming outdated beliefs and uniting itself in a large flow of democracy, development and modernisation, in a wave of creation and regeneration in the name of its own future. And it is up to all of us, in the hands of all our citizens, to be able to achieve this, so that we ourselves can write our own history, starting from today, in voting for the government's programming declarations. I am convinced that we will succeed for the bright Greece that we all deserve! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Budget Declarations of the Government is adjourned and I would remind the House that, in accordance with Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure, a roll-call vote will be followed by a roll-call vote to give Parliament's confidence in the government to be held in accordance with Rules 72 and 72A of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The government's vote of confidence, after their name has been spoken, responds "NEI". Refusing a vote of confidence in the government, following the expression of their name, responds "OUP". Refusing votes shall declare ‘APPROVAL’. Parliamentary Thesprotia of the New Democracy Mr. Vassilios Yoyakas and MP Evros of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Anastasia Gara are on the list. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u279	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Bureau has received a letter from Mr Georgios Koumoutsakos, who is on a mission from the Government abroad, stating his vote. This vote, in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, will be taken into account in the following account. That letter will be entered in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House of the outcome of a roll-call vote on the Programming Declarations of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis to give a vote of confidence in it. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter the roll-calling protocol page 552a]] A total of 300 Members voted. They voted for the government's vote of confidence, i.e. 'NAH', 158 MPs. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] They refused to give a vote of confidence, i.e. they voted 'OH', 142 Members. No one voted for ‘PARTS’ in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u282	The government therefore had the vote of confidence in Parliament, as provided for in Rules 84 of the Constitution and 141 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u283	The House has given the mandate requested. I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that, with the completion of the debate on the Schedule Declarations and the vote on the vote on the confidence vote, some statistics have emerged. These, Prime Minister, deserve the proposal you made for the literal three-day meeting. The debate lasted three days, 20, 21 and 22 July. They spoke a hundred and eight MPs, while in the 2015 programming statements both times we had programmed, they had spoken, seventy-four and ninety-nine MPs respectively. They spoke with six parliamentary representatives, two former Members of Parliament, thirty three ministers and twice the six Presidents of the parliamentary groups. In other words, they spoke a hundred and fifty-five speakers in total. Total time: thirty one hours. The previous debate on programme statements lasted twenty-nine hours. The average duration of the eighteen debates on programme statements carried out post-populationally and unfolded within the three days was about twenty hours. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-22-S1-commons.u284	It is with the consent of the House that the sitting is closed. End time: 22.34 ́.
