ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that two topical questions will be discussed today. But let me begin first with the announcement of a number of questions which will not be discussed, because there is also a colleague who wants to speak. Eleventh Question No 429/19-3-2019 by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of Parliament, on the subject of "To deal directly with the problems caused by traditional wine growing and traditional distillation", will not be discussed due to irresponsibility. The Ministry of Finance is responsible. The tenth under No 449/26-32019 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Dangerous working conditions of employees of distributors" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The first under No 466/1-4-2019 topical question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary I Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "What is the policy of managing resources from the cultural heritage?", will not be discussed due to an impediment by Mrs. The third, with number 443/26-3-2019, topical question for the second cycle of MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Compensatory benefits for the regions in the administrative limits of which the reservoirs/frames of Mornos and Evnos are located, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzi, due to a workload. The fourth question under number 446/26-32019 is the second question of the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the flooding phenomena and disasters in the Docos - Agia Eleousa - Liani Ammos - Outside Panagitsa in Chalkida, will not be discussed due to an obstacle of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzi, due to a workload. The fifth question, under number 434/22-32019, is a topical question for the second cycle of the Member of the Thessaloniki Association, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, on the subject: "The supply of seven hundred 50 buses for urban transport - three hundred fifty for Thessaloniki", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzi, due to a workload. The seventh question under number 447/26-3-2019 of the Second Cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the Special School of Zakynthos and the delay in the completion of the new building, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Spirtzi, due to a workload. Also, the eighth under No 445/26-3-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Dangerous "hot" in Apostelemi in Gouves - Hersonissos", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzi, due to a workload. Finally, the ninth under No 448/26-32019 topical question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the damage caused to Chania by the catastrophic floods, compensation for all the injured" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzi, due to a workload. Mr Synthraki, I will give you the floor for one minute to substantiate your objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Let me burn down and denounce at the same time the second postponement of my debate on the disasters in Chania, by Mr Spirtzis who invokes a workload. He's done this before. He had annulled a corresponding debate on grounds of lack of competence, as he said, a month and a half ago about the first disasters that Crete had suffered. I do not understand the point of 'dutyload' when such serious issues arise. We had five dead. We have houses that are still locked up. They don't have water. They don't have power. They don't have a phone. Dozens of villages, houses, have suffered cracks. The majority of both rural roads and the provincial network are damaged. So who takes this responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleagues, I would not like us to go into the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u5	I must, however, give the people who have been following us right now and who are waiting for the Minister to give very specific answers to them, and above all for the basic bridge whose destruction has been blocked by two provinces for a month, and people cannot move, go to their jobs, take the children to school. And instead of carrying the Bailey Bridge, people were forced to build an improvised way to go. And it forbids them, instead of taking steps to bring the bridge or move on to the process to build a new bridge. And monuments have been damaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Colleague, that's understandable. Your objection has been recorded. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u7	Is it possible with such severe catastrophes that the Minister and the Greek Parliament ignored and, above all, the people waiting for answers to be given? That is why we denounce and call on the Minister to take a position and not to evade. So does the district chief. Mayors do the same. And one takes responsibility to each other. Finally, stop this game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. Your objections have been recorded. They'll be transferred to the Ministry for sure. We are now moving on to the two topical questions that will be discussed today. The first of the two will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis. It will therefore be debated first under number 465/1-4-2019, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Restoration of the cotton producers of Evros and Rhodopes of the associated aid'. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, last Thursday, the government showed you that it does not support the cotton producers of Evros and Rhodope. Last year, total damage was suffered because of extreme weather conditions, because of the worm disease, which you know. Unfortunately you did not have the sensitivity, both you and the other leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, to come to Evros and Rhodope to carry out an autopsy to understand the extent of the damage. You promised that you would abolish the cap as far as the related aid was concerned. Unfortunately we saw that a thousand seven hundred cotton producers in the country, of which seven hundred and seventy in Evros and Rhodope, were not included in the payment of the associated aid. A meeting was held on Monday at the Dumotich and a resolution on this subject was adopted, which I am presenting to you, and I am tabling it in the Minutes of this House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastasios Prussakis, presents for the minutes this resolution, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Your own Members preferred, as always, the escape and did not attend this meeting, which was particularly useful and informative. In the statement issued by the Minister for Rural Development, following the pressure of the speaker, as well as other factors in Evros, he said that the technical problems that have arisen between OPECE and ELGA will be resolved. Who is responsible, Minister, for this situation? Shouldn't you have predicted? In any case, I think that the timely question has been tabled to answer us and to see how you will deal with this problem which has arisen almost throughout Thrace, which, unfortunately, you have recurred them on several occasions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, give me a few seconds before you answer, to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-three students and students and two teachers attending from the 6th Municipal School of Vyron. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform you that the reason why you are currently seeing a few colleagues is because there is parliamentary scrutiny and the procedure for the topical and urgent questions, during which each Member has the right to ask the Minister responsible for a topical matter and to have this debate held within Parliament. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr Kokalis will at this moment answer a question from a Member of the New Republic concerning rural development. Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Parliament, indeed on 28 March, paid EUR 176 million to cotton producers throughout the country for the special aid, for the linked aid. The purpose of this aid is to produce quality cotton. Thousands of seven hundred seventy-four cotton producers throughout Greece have not been paid, several of them in your region. I now come to the essence of the question. First of all, I read in the question that you say 'automatically the OPEKEPE reduced the cap' and 'Present the OPEKEPE automatically'. There's nothing to be imported automatically, Your Honour. At the request of the Ministry of Rural Development, the plaque was reduced. In fact, this county has suffered serious damage, other damage covered, other uncovered. In the earliest noises of damage, since summer, we have also informed the DAG and all producers, especially for the green or pomegranate worm, to take measures to prove by the producers that they have shown a great deal of care and diligence in the treatment of the disease. What do I mean? Presentation of invoices and others to be included in the related aid. We also had drought, as well as floods. We did have damage. How many were paid and what about the others? EPC Evros: EUR 6 million in a thousand three hundred eighty-eighty farmers from the thousand five hundred ninety, 87.3%. MRLs of Orestiad: 13,798,000 euros in two thousand two hundred fifty nine farmers from the two thousand eight hundred fifty eight. In the Regional Unit of Evros there are now seventy-four farmers who have not given up any cotton, and six hundred other eighty-eight farmers who have handed over but do not catch the cap. What did the services do in time, Mr Papoutsis? They have translated the law and regulations into the word "multi-violence", in order to cover a large proportion of cotton producers, that they have suffered damage. This is a broad interpretation of the laws and regulations, which is why you refer to your topical question 'automatically OPEKEPE'. Nothing has been done 'automatically'. It all happened in time, appropriately, but always according to the law. In these days, at least the majority of the remaining ones are considered to be paid to the associated one, always according to an opinion from the ELGA, with a broad interpretation I insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u13	Minister, we had discussed cotton crops and, in general, compensation, here in the House, in a similar timely question, with your Minister. Because the damage caused was not only in cotton, but it was also in cereals, it was also in sunflower. And you've said it before in detail. Just because of the weather phenomena, this disease was developed and those who did not deliver to their fields have a total destruction. That's why they didn't deliver a pound. However, the Minister had promised that he would give answers to the meetings held in his office with the institutional actors of Evros and the stakeholders, that he would give the answer by submitting the budget. I ask you: have you made a document to the Minister of Finance and asked for a code for this compensation? If you made a document, please submit it to Parliament's minutes. Secondly, because he did not answer the budget, I would like you to tell us whether you will retrospectively ask for compensation to be included in the State budget, in addition. Because the damage is not, Mr President, only in respect of the non-payment of the associated aid to these people. The damage is total, they've lost their income. At the moment, most of the fields in central and northern Evros, as the farmers themselves say and as I see it, will not be cultivated. And you know why? Because they cannot obtain funding in terms of supplies, either from their own fund or from any other financial instrument available to the Greek State and the Ministry of Rural Development. You will be responsible for this matter, which I am telling you today. So we ask: Will you compensate them for a loss of income through the de minimis aid? That is what they need to be able to stand on their feet. Have you asked the European Union to activate the Climate Change Fund, as did Germany for its farmers? If you have requested and sent a document, please submit it to the Minutes of the House. You have also now committed yourself to considering the request we are discussing today. I am sure you will come to Evros and will announce that you will include the loss of farmers' incomes in the so-called ESDPs - which are not effective, they do not solve the problem today, but perhaps after three, four years - and you will refer their problem to the future. That is why we want, Mr President, two things. Firstly, the payment of the associated aid to all those who had grown their fields with cotton and secondly, we want the de minimis aid to all these people for the loss of income or through a European Union financial instrument as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u15	Mr Papoutsis, the people have indeed suffered damage. But let's get things straight. In the end, you asked for something that is bleak and contradicts: Or will we compensate de minimis producers who have suffered damage - the cotton producers I always mean, for them you ask - or will the related damage be paid. Are you both asking for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u16	Of course both. One more, the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u17	No, Your Honour, I've answered you. Listen to me. To a large extent, the cotton producers of Evros have been covered because of the interpretation made by OPEKEPE and ELGA services of the damage they suffered. Indeed, they have suffered and a large proportion has been paid and a small percentage has been left. I have answered and answered you as clearly as possible that in these days at least the vast majority of the remaining cotton producers are being considered for damage, such as rosy worm, green worm, flooding, drought. We hung up on that. Secondly, with regard to de minimis and because you said that we are making a document on this compensation, on what compensation? Are you asking about de minimis? It's a rhetorical question. Are you referring to specific compensation for a particular product? Because in the second question you are talking about excluding the county from the de minimis. No, of course not. All requests are dealt with. But, Mr President, the de minimis compensation for damages, but also the payment of non-hazardous damages, both for the same generic reason, I have the impression that they do not exist. To conclude, I would like to say that these days - from the day before yesterday - the two agencies are already working together to cover the other cotton producers in the prefecture, for which you have put the timely question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u19	Can I have the floor for a moment, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Purchass, the question is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u21	Wait a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u22	No, it's not a point of order. We must move on with the list of topical and urgent questions. Please. The sixth question, under number 436/22-32019, of the Second Cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The Harmonization of the age of admission to Creative Employment Centers (CIDS) with the age of membership in compulsory education", will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr.Theanos Fotou, due to a workload. The second question, under No 459/1-4-2019, is the first question of the Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopjes show their wines as Macedonian in an international wine fair", will not be discussed. The twelfth under number 330/4-2-2019 topical question by the Independent MEP, Evia Nikolaos Michou, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Continuance of persecution of Greek minority members in Albania", will not be discussed. The thirteenth, with number 284/21-1-2019, is a topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: “Albanian street developments of “Greek Albania””, will not be discussed. The fourteenth under number 280/17-1-2019 topical question for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The co-management of the Aegean is being promoted by the Government", will not be discussed. The Fifteenth, with number 260/9-1-2019, is a topical question for the second cycle of MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways”, will not be discussed. The sixteenth, under number 261/9-1-2019, a topical question for the second cycle of Congressman I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Museum of Macedonian Struggle and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. The seventeenth under number 263/9-1-2019 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the state of Skopje" will not be discussed. There is also a letter from the Government Secretariat about the timely questions that will not be discussed. We shall now proceed to the last debate on a topical and urgent question. It is the second under No 456/29-32019 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Article 68 of Law 3863/2010 (as amended and in force today by Article 39 of Law 4488/2017)’. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mrs Ahtsoglou. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, since I thank you, I would ask you for your time tolerance. Let me begin with an introductory preamble to the designation that you have given me, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the designation of the 'independent' MEP. I don't feel and I'm not an independent MP. I did not leave the Movement of Independent Greeks, to which I belong, nor were they deleted from it. I therefore declare that I am a Member of the Independent Greeks and as a Member of the Independent Greeks I am presenting the timely question to the Minister, hoping for a positive answer. The question concerns the amendment of the second part of Article 39 of Law 4488/2017, which was introduced by the Ministry of Labour and by the SYRIZA Government. With regard to the possibility, Minister, of participating in public tenders of service companies, the provisions of this Article 39 in the first part provide for deprivation of the possibility of such service companies being involved, since fines have been issued against those companies for infringements detected by the Labour Inspectorate and which have acquired final and binding effect. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask you to have your time tolerance, Mr President. Since, therefore, the procedural provisions and appeals are found to be void by a higher court to the detriment of those companies, if those infringements are well founded, the contracting authorities shall exclude those companies from their participation in a tendering procedure and, of course, from the conclusion of contracts for which the contract was intended. However, an amendment - and I come to the argument - of the second part of this article, namely Article 39, introduced an unfair and contrary to the principle of equal treatment for cleaning and storage companies vis-à-vis all other service providers. Subsequently, Article 107 of Law 4497/2017 sealed that distinction, as the legislature explicitly states that it is not for cleaning and storage companies specifically for that purpose that fines must have a final and binding effect in order for contracting authorities to exclude them from procurement and tendering procedures. This disproportionate measure aims at specific companies and forms an unequal treatment between all service companies. The provision of that article - in breach of Article 20 of the Constitution - circumvents their right to legal protection, not recognising their possibility of appeal to the courts responsible, in order to challenge the sanctioning act imposing a fine. Even if there are serious indications that these transactions will collapse and will never become effective and binding, companies will be excluded from their participation in a tender. Taking into account the fact that fines are being imposed very easily, as the audits of the relevant bodies of the Labour Inspectorate have been targeted at the expense of cleaning and storage companies, you realise that you are putting these companies at risk of being viable. In the context of proportionality, Minister, you should review the architecture of fines and exclusions so as to ensure transparency and a sense of law for citizens. And I conclude with the question to you, Minister: why does Article 39 of Law 4478/2017 discriminate between cleaning and even keeping companies and other service companies involved in public procurement procedures? I also ask you, Minister, why you do not recognise the legal and constitutionally guaranteed right of clean-up and/or storage companies to be addressed to the competent courts, questioning the instrument of ratification by the competent institutions. Finally, I ask you why you are depriving the cleaning and storage companies solely of the right to provide legal protection in breach of Article 20 of the Constitution. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. Madam Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u25	Mr Katsiki, you will allow me to begin by saying that the fight against infringement of the labour market is an absolutely non-negotiable objective for the present Government and for the Ministry of Labour. This practically means two things, firstly, that no company enjoys immunity, all businesses are controlled, all punishable and all imposed fines, when they violate the rules of labour law and, secondly, that no business can base its competitive advantage on the rest of the business on the basis of breaching the rules of labour law or the compelling of labour rights, in order to reduce its labour costs and make it more competitive. In order to serve this objective, we have been following a very specific strategy at the outset, which says that, on the one hand, we are strengthening the legislative framework, namely, where there were blind points in the system, so that companies can circumvent the framework of work protection, we are laying down stricter rules and, on the other, we are strengthening the control action of the Labour Inspectorate. And the results are already visible, as you know during this four-year period undeclared work has been reduced by more than ten percentage points thanks to this very targeted action by the Labour Inspectorate. Among the other rules that we have in fact introduced, we have actually extended a framework that was already in existence - there was specifically for clean-up and storage companies, we have extended it in general - and we have predicted that no undertaking that has a pile of breaches of labour law will be able to take state money, that is to say, it can take money, participate in public tenders and take money and actually subsidise against the rest of the companies that comply with the rules of labour law. In particular, we predicted that if within two years prior to the proposal, before the submission of the tender, the company has received fines - three fines - for infringements of labour legislation characterised as high or too high or has received fines because it has been found twice with undeclared workers, this operation will be excluded from public money and from the public tender. You ask me why there is a stricter framework especially for cleaning and storage companies. There is because cleaning and storage companies are indeed saying that they are excluded from public money once the fine is imposed on them. The place of contractors in cleaning and guarding is characterized by high infractionality over time and this is not an impression, it is not an image. Unfortunately, it's a tangible reality. I will tell you certain details: In 2015-2018 the APRC carried out three thousand three hundred checks on security and cleanliness companies and there were infringements that led to eight hundred ninety fines for infringements of labour law. Attention: I am only talking about infringements of labour law, not undeclared workers being examined separately, I am talking about these eight hundred fifty fines of EUR 4.3 million. Separately, three hundred undeclared workers were identified in such enterprises, in cleaning and storage contractors, which led to a fine of EUR 3.5 million. In total, during this four-year period, the infringements found in these clean-up and storage operations have been extreme both in terms of non-compliance with labour law and in respect of undeclared work, which have led to fines totalling EUR 7.9 million. It is, therefore, clear that there is a need for a more specific - more stringent framework for these companies, because - to give it to you in percentage terms - these companies have employed the APRD in labour disputes by 8%, that is 8% of the labour gaps were exclusively for such companies, when these enterprises employ only 2% of the workforce. We are talking, in other words, about enterprises which, unfortunately, are extreme infringements, and that is why, in my opinion, it needs a very specific - more specific - framework for the protection of labour law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katsiki, you have the floor for your dentistry and I would ask you to be in time because you spoke about six minutes in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I will try to be very brief. Madam Minister, I am very surprised that in the reply you gave me, which I have listened very carefully, I have found, without getting away from the attention I was listening to, that you have had a very contradictory reason. You say on the one hand that you are unnegotiable and want to tighten up the legal framework that determines the penalties for these companies, and on the other hand, you do not explain why you are making this great distinction between unequal treatment and other service companies. You say, on the one hand, it's only 2%. But they have very few employees, but you are punishing them so that you can shut them down and do not give them the right on equal terms until the decision of the competent courts to which they have appealed has been finalised and you have not given any information as to how many such decisions have been justified by such companies. And you say it's only 2%. And on the other hand, you're glad that you fought against black work - how? (ii) to eliminate firms employing only 2% of workers. I sincerely regret and there are other elements that prove your contradictory reason and the irreversible policy with which you are legislating. But I don't have much time to be able to analyse them. I can only tell you that within four years, Minister, the well-advertised left-wing rule has succeeded in transforming the moral advantage - which the Left has the theory - into an analgesia. Why else would your obsessed approach be characterised as a matter involving hundreds of companies and thousands of workers? Your targeting of an unjust and exterior device is sincerely inadvertent. You, the main expressionors of workers' law, how will you capitalize this paradox? Honestly, I wonder, and I ask you: is this resentment of your words and works really novelty? And if I want to be perfectly precise, it's rather nightmareous. One of the top provisions laying down the Charter of the Fundamental Rights of Citizens in the modern Greek state is Article 20 of the Constitution, Minister, which without having a broad interpretation ensures that every citizen is entitled to legal protection and order, which you are relentlessly taking, remove, deprive them of. He wants art to do that, you know. I don't know, of course, what this art is called, because I never personally served. But it could also be called a political atrocity. Remember, Minister, that the dominance of the first and the present practices, tactics and positions has devoured the dampening of hopes of the first century. You should know that when the marvelous we put into faces and situations swallows, then it becomes perfect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u29	Mr Katsiki, you obviously did not understand the answer because I don't think there was the slightest contradiction in it. I said, firstly, that these businesses, although they are employing a small part of the workforce, are particularly bad business, and that is proof of this by the Labour Inspectorate and the audits carried out. So, indeed, for these businesses, a stricter protection framework is needed, so that - if anything - there is a stimulus to continue doing these violations. Secondly, because you have often claimed that this is a violation of the principle of equality of the Constitution - that the principle of equality in the Constitution speaks of a similar treatment of similar situations and of unequal treatment of situations. There would be a problem with the principle of equality if, for example, we were to discriminate between companies in the same sector, not if we were to determine that the same rules would apply to everyone within the same sector. There is a problem with the principle of equality, on the contrary, in cases where an undertaking which violates labour law may be involved under the same conditions as another undertaking that does not violate labour law in the same tender for cleanliness and storage. That would be a problem with the principle of equality, that would be problematic discrimination with the principle of equality and not by imposing that the same rules apply to everyone within the same sector. I should like to say to you this: an undertaking is violating labour law, receives a fine for undeclared workers - two times - and it is three years before the case is dealt with in the administrative courts - so much is the period of convicting cases - and in the meantime, since the law's limit says that 'I do not want a breach within two years of the submission of the proposal', it wins more time, it wins another competition, it gains more public money. And what happens after all? It acquires this breaching undertaking a competitive advantage vis-à-vis other undertakings which respect labour legislation. There, therefore, is the problem of equality. In your last argument about infringement of Article 20 of the Constitution, it is clear that no one precludes or prohibits such undertakings from appealing to justice and from questioning the fine. No one has put a barrier like that. No one forbids these businesses from resorting to justice. However, since you are asking me how many of them are entitled to the courts, I will tell you that 95% of the appeals are judged in favour of the Greek State, which means that at least 95% of the fines they enter have rightly entered. And I think that is, if anything, an unspeakable argument that these businesses should be excluded or should, anyway, take a lesson in order to be more consistent. If nothing else, we should be fair to all those businesses that respect labour legislation and comply with the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Minister of State: 'Recommendation, establishment and responsibilities of the Central Codification Committee and other provisions'. I propose that the draft law should be debated at a sitting, uniform in principle, on the articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u32	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u34	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u35	We fully agree with what you said. We voted in favour of the Rules of Procedure. But there is a very serious problem and the Minister must be here before the process begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u36	The Minister's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u37	Before the process begins, as a Democratic Association, we are calling for the withdrawal of Chapter II of the draft law, after the resignation of the President of the National Commission for Human Rights, Mr Stavropoulos, whose text I am presenting right now. [[At this point, Mr Andreas Loverdos presents for the minutes the text of the resignation mentioned above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, a letter was sent - which I will also present - to the Prime Minister by the President of the European Network for Human Rights Institutions, as in each of these states have been structured - the ECHR, in this case - which calls on the Prime Minister to withdraw Chapter B, because his statement was made without prior consultation and without the Paris authorities having complied with, as this letter says in particular. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have also made this observation - Mr Karras is here - and other parties in the process of preparing the draft law. However, after this letter, which calls on the Greek Prime Minister to withdraw the capital, in order to discuss in detail the specific part of the draft law, and in the Paris authorities, I call on the Minister who is now here to withdraw this section. Otherwise we have a debate outside the human rights framework and it is quite wrong for Greece to send such a message.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mrs Kozobol, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u39	No, Mr. President! So, is our request rejected? The Minister is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u40	The Minister has not asked why to answer. We're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u41	That is to say, our request is rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u42	I can't reject it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, we have made a request on the basis of a document I have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Loverdos, I cannot reject the request. The Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u45	You have reached the majority rapporteur in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u46	Since the Minister didn't ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u47	If the Minister doesn't mean anything, well. But let's know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u49	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u50	I think we're not starting well. There is no reason for this kind of political controversy. We better discuss issues relating to the Paris authorities and their observance in detail during the normal parliamentary procedure. I'd like to make one, two preliminary comments. I will tell you this, Mr President: there has been a number of invoicing by the Paris authorities and in the process of discussing the bill at the time of its preparation. The Paris authorities say something very simple: the composition of the committee must be determined either by constitutional or legislative provision. Why are the Paris authorities asking for this? Because we need a guarantee of independence and a sufficient guarantee of independence is the fact that the composition of the committee is not determined by a decision of the administration, the government, but goes through the normal parliamentary procedure. So anyone who reads, even at the same time, the Paris authorities will understand that at no point, the procedure followed does not violate them. It's simple and clean. If we want to make political confrontation, let us make it essential and not procedural, that is to say not to use legal arguments to create political impressions. There is another thing about legal interpretations and the real political disagreements that may exist on the proposal to extend the National Committee on Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u51	Mr. President, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Loverdo, let's not start a conversation right now. If ever possible! Here, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u53	The one minute you give me is enough. In the 1990s I have been a member of this committee. I am well aware of what I am talking about, and I would be the last person to try to make a political confrontation on such a matter. Our objections, of course, Mr Karras expressed them, will be repeated and I shall speak likewise. However, that is not what I am talking about. I am not discussing what has been discussed in the Standing Committee. I'm saying something new. Nor is it a constitutional issue nor is it a domestic policy. There is the letter to the Prime Minister from the President responsible on these matters. It is a European institution, a network which monitors the efforts of the Member States and says: 'Take back this chapter, because it is contrary to the Paris authorities'. I am not saying this to be answered by the Minister or the majority rapporteur. It's not an internal dialogue. It is a text that comes from Europe, from those responsible to see how the Member States operate in the context of human rights and suggests and suggests the withdrawal of Chapter II. If that doesn't work out, we don't speak the same language.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u55	You have the floor, Mr. Lappa, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u56	If I understood correctly, Mr Loverdos conveys the President's opinion - now I have been informed that he is on resignation - invoking the Paris authorities. I have before me the text of the Paris authorities. Basic rule, the main rule, the core of the Paris authorities is one: to have a pluralist composition of the institution for individual rights. That's exactly what the bill does. It expands pluralistly, involving more and more expressions of individual rights in this committee. If there are any aristocratic perceptions of a committee from some of the institutional factors, it is theirs. The political authority, however, and we as a parliament have a duty to respect the Paris authorities, but above all the rights of groups that are discriminated against and insulted. That's what the bill does.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u57	It's clear. Mrs. Kozobol, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. The problem of pluralism and multi-educational legislation from many different sources is not only a technical problem, it is not a problem that delays the management of citizens' affairs and their suffering, not a problem that really makes it difficult for a country to develop. It's a question of democracy. Walls are built around - around and the citizen is left outside, so that he cannot intervene, so that his affairs cannot be dealt with. The grid of laws, which often overlap, scattered provisions, often contradictory to each other or repeated, create high walls that leave the citizen out, unable to act. This isn't a wheel discovery. This pathogen has already been pointed out since the early 1950s, when Union law did not exist, which, when it was incorporated, created further problems. In the resolution of these problems, it comes to contribute to the draft law, which is now being introduced or better to say is being redesigned - because it has already been set up - the Central Coding Committee, which, firstly, was set up under Law No.3133/2003, but then with Law No. 4048/2012, was abolished and another scheme was envisaged, the Committee on Codification and Reform of Law, known as the EMCDDA, is also known as the EMCDDA, to abolish the NRP with Law 4012/2013, which was re-established by the Central Committee on Codifications. The new design of the Central Coding Committee shall take into account the principles of good legislation as set out in Article 2 of Law 4048/2012, namely, the need to legislate, proportionality, suitability, reasonable relationship between the instrument and the purpose by adopting the least burdensome measure, the simplicity and clarity of the content of the arrangements, the avoidance of divergences in the case of general policy or contradictory arrangements, efficiency and efficiency, transparency, subsidiarity and accountability by identifying regulatory bodies, legal certainty, accessibility to regulation and electronically, democratic legitimacy. Of course, you will tell me that the Central Committee on Coding does not legislate, but the principles of good legislation also apply when simplifying the procedure of legislation by amending or repealing provisions, reforming and codifying, as well as in incorporating Community law. And that is what the Central Committee on Coding does, a procedure in which existing legislation is codified and reformed, in the sense of reform, as defined in Article 11 of Law 4048/2012. In other words, we are not giving a new concept to the principle of reform, because this has also been the case for the committee. As characteristic of this provision is mentioned, the reform aims at limiting the plurality, updating and clarifying existing legislation, so that the remaining rules are sound, functional and more understandable or accessible. The reform shall include, on a case-by-case basis, simplifying, repealing obsolete provisions and including in a single text of laws, regulations and decisions and their abolition as autonomous provisions. The new design of the Central Coding Committee is based on the above principles and concepts, acting on a legislative codification that is different, both from the administrative codification and the codification provided for in the Constitution under Article 76. Because administrative codification composes legislative texts, as they may be, on a database such as legal information banks, a project which has already begun in the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, which, once it has been completed, will enable all citizens to have free access to legislation in a manner equivalent to that offered by legal information banks. And, of course, the legislative codification I have mentioned is also different, based on Article 76 of the Constitution. Here, then, we say that the Central Committee on Codings does not just make an administrative record of the provisions in force and delete those that have been abolished. There is a procedure in which the provisions are set in a reasonable order, not to interfere with the concept of the law, but to settle the provisions on the basis of the branches, capital, special interests, the specific provisions and the specific objectives of the law. It is therefore proposed, in the draft law before us, that the redesign of the Government Secretariat and the upgrading of the Central Coding Committee, which, as has been said, and the President of Mrs Symsonides, should also be heard during the hearing of the bodies in the committee responsible, is already in existence and functioning. Upgrading and improving the effectiveness of the Central Committee on Codifications is a matter, because, as mentioned above, interventions and legislative initiatives have also been in the past, but the problem remains and is being gigantic, I would say. The bet is, therefore, the upgrading, improvement and effectiveness of the committee. And I consider this to be the fact that this committee is now part of the national strategy for the Encoding and Reform of Greek legislation, as this strategy was established by Article 40 of Law No.4369/2013, your well-known KAEN, that is, it is part of this overall strategic plan. And here I think it is the difference that makes us hope that this initiative will be more effective. The national strategy shall include principles, guidelines, frameworks, actions and sources of funding to promote integrated procedures for restoring internal cohesion of law, improving the quality of legislative and regulatory provisions and its systematic integration into sets of law. The new KEC, the new Central Coding Committee, consists of thirteen members, more than they are today, which are seven, nominated by the Prime Minister and who are judges. Judiciary officers are chosen, in the context of the separation of powers, by the body itself who will be to represent, members of the Board of Law of the State, members of teaching staff of the universities. It is thus upgraded to a specialised scientific body in the form of a permanent legislative committee, which undertakes work and substantial processing of legislative material and is called upon to address the problems of pluralism, malpractice and also to highlight any gaps in the regulatory field. The proposed arrangements recognise a presumption of competence of the Central Committee for the Encoding of Legislation in order to ensure centralised coordination and compliance with uniform rules. The possibilities for intervention in the field of the reform of law, in the sense mentioned above, and as the reform refers to Article 11 of Law 4048, are widened. The role of the Central Coding Committee, the responsibilities, the way in which it operates and the procedure for codification within the framework of the national coding strategy is defined. It controls and delivers an opinion on draft codes of other committees, it intervenes more drastically and directly in the codification of legislation. It should be noted that the Central Committee for Coding has already completed the drafting of an updated guideline for the codification and reform of the law. This manual is provided for in the current draft law by Article 1(5), which describes the methodology and general legislative rules to be applied during codification. In order to assist its work, the CEC may invite members of the Legal Council of the State, Directors-General of the Ministries and to exchange and receive advisory opinions. It shall also draw up and submit to the Secretary-General of the Government within the first quarter of each calendar year a report assessing its work on the Internet. Here too, I see a very important addition to the general CEC regulation, because it is very important that there should always be a clear assessment and evaluation of the work of any committee. Finally, the compensation of the members of the CVT is laid down, whereas the previous law, Law No.3133/2003, which regulates the committee concerned, is repealed, in a sign of good legislature, so that there is no parallel law with each other. It will continue to function with its upgraded role in its current composition, as, as has been explained to the committee by the relevant Minister, there is no intention of changing its composition from the present government. The objections raised in respect of new appointments and customer relations are thus rejected. I am now going to the last article of the specific draft law we are discussing today, which is being voted on. It's Article 10. It is in itself a chapter, Chapter II, proposing that the National Committee on Human Rights be enlarged. The committee was set up in 1998. By law, Law No.2667/1998 was established in implementation of the Paris authorities, i.e. rules adopted by the United Nations General Assembly and is an independent advisory body of the State on human rights matters and a member of the Prime Minister. Its composition is defined in Article 2 of Law 2667/1998. Its members are the chairman of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency without the right to vote, representatives who designate four non-governmental organisations, collectives that promote and defend human rights. Today it is: Magatopoulou Foundation, Association for Women's Rights, Greek Union for Human Rights, Greek Council for Refugees, Citizens' Counselor, Personal Data Protection Authority, Representative of the GSEU, ADEDY, RESEA, Greek Department of International Amnesty, Pan-Hellenic Federation of Roma Associations and persons of unknown prestige. The current Government - and I would like to stress this - with amendments to the founding law in 2015, 2016 and 2017 has greatly upgraded the role of the National Commission for Human Rights. What did he do? It ensured the independence of the committee, by removing the right to vote from representatives of the ministries and by prohibiting the appointment as members of parliament. What better could be done than that in particular? We all agree on the independence of the committee and it is something very specific that this government has done. What else did he do with the legislation I mentioned? It has established the impunity of Members for their opinions - a vote they have given, it has obtained separate appropriations. Until the present government there were no separate appropriations, no matter what they are, less or more. That is always a question. However, it provided separate appropriations for the ECHR. It has integrated its staff into the single mobility system so that its needs can be met and has generally widened its responsibilities in order to strengthen its mission. Given that the protection of human rights continues to be a primary concern of the state, as inextricably linked to the democratic state and the rule of law, but also to the implementation of the Paris authorities - which many have invoked and invoked today, but I do not know whether they believe it - the current legislation should provide for the composition and responsibilities of the national institution, ensuring a broad representation of the social forces. In this spirit, therefore, it is considered appropriate - and this is what Article 10 of the current draft law makes - to adapt the existing legislative framework in order to achieve the representation of additional social groups in the ECHR. According to the above, it is proposed that additional persons designated by non-governmental organisations active in the field of human rights and the fight against discrimination who directly represent specific groups that are socially excluded should participate in the composition of the ECHR. In particular, it is proposed that the organizations Pan-Hellenic Confederation of Greek Roma "ELLAN PASE", the Inter-System Support Union, the "Athens Proud Festival", the "Hosexual and Lesbian Community of Greece", the COLOUR YOUTH - Youth Community of Athens, the "Hellenic Roma Action" and the "Hellenic Roma Action". I have listened very carefully to the objections raised during the hearing by the President and Vice-President of the National Representation of the NRA, the National Committee on Human Rights. I must say that I cannot understand how the Committee's proposed enlargement will degrade it and damage its authority. Although questions have been asked, Mr Stavropoulos has been present, and the Vice-President has generally spoken of abusing prestige, for difficulty in taking decisions. However, it has not really been justified why this enlargement will bring about these problems. I believe that this committee, the ECHR, which is supposed to defend and promote human rights, supports discrimination and exclusion and has shown it in practice during the twenty years of its operation, cannot exclude groups from specific areas of claim. And Mr. Stavropoulou is president today, but also a great representation is founded by the Magatopoulou Foundation, by the Association for Women's Rights, where the late Alice Magatopoulou took the lead in establishing it. If he were here today, I am sure he would agree with this enlargement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Kozobol. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, nineteen Belgian students and five educational attendants from Karel de Grote University College. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We have a licence application, too. The Member, Mr Geramos Balauras, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 4 April to 6 April 2019 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u60	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mrs Vulture, rapporteur from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honourable Member, did you say that the Members of Parliament are not taking part in the committee? Is that what you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u62	They don't have the right to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u63	Oh, they don't have the right to vote. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in the committee has not convinced us that what prevents the Central Committee on Codings from doing its job is the absence of another law and, indeed, of a law such as that which you are bringing to plenary today. On the contrary, following today's resignation of the President of the National Committee for Human Rights and the letter that the European Network of National Human Rights Commissions sent to Prime Minister Tsipras, we understand that you are bringing the provision for the Central Committee on Codifications only to use as wrapping paper to abolish the National Committee on Human Rights. As I had the opportunity to tell you, there were laws. The Conservative Law of the Coding Committee is 2003. It followed a series of laws on your own governments, and you have finally reached the point of a central committee, which has already been inactivated by your own government, because you govern four and go to five years and nothing has happened these years. The only development that took place was to appoint a new committee with new composition just in September 2018. You know very well that until July 2015 we had codifications. They have been officially six since 2003 and they have become eight others. The five are done. You never brought them here for ratification. The three were not completed because they were not paid, as Professor Sionides told us, the compensation money to the members of the committee. So, six plus eight of us are doing fourteen by 2015 and the one that happened in 2015, I don't think you would have done it in the first half of Varoufakis. It was, in other words, prepared by our own government, the previous government. So on the basis of the evidence provided by Mr. Symsonides, the committee was fine. On average, he had a time coding. He told us it took up to five months for small velvet codings and up to three years for long. So we are not talking about whether the committee was inactivated. She was inactivated in the government of SYRIZA - ANEL. I want you to tell me what has happened - I did not receive an answer to the committee - almost five years in which you are running. You have brought nothing to ratification and it is not convincing that the work was not done, because the presumption of competence was lacking or the assurance of the Central Committee on Codification was lacking. In other words, if a committee called the Central Committee on Coding has been set up by many laws - it has been established by law and followed by others - has no presumption of competence and credibility, then there is a problem and I tell you again that you are no longer virginity. You have simply done nothing, because you had to apply the laws on good law, which you refer to in the explanatory statement and bring in a number of amendments. And today you don't even hold the pretexts, even this bill to leave it alone, to show what it means to be a good law invoked by you. You are bringing unnecessarily amendments, while you yourself are writing in means that there should not be any amendments. So that's why you let it spend all these years. You arrived in September 2008 to put a new mandate to commit the next government. You are now bringing a new amendment, which you will be including, as you say, in this bill, because the purpose is to prevent the legislative work of the next government, the Government of New Democracy, because you are abolishing the 2003 Act, you are repeating the provisions of all other laws in a selective and fragmentary way, and you are confusing them. And now, with this amendment, you are also entrusting new tasks to this committee, and we have told you that we have concerns about the powers to reform law. And we have concerns with regard to the legislative work of the next government, because it is certain that when it has more powers, we will be involved in the legislative work of the next government. And now you are bringing the amendment by which you are updating a 2005 Presidential Decree - you have remembered it - on codifying government and governmental legislation. Certainly, there is no doubt that there is confusion in terms of the reform of law, mainly because you call on Mr. 4048/2012, but he says that the reform of the law is the re-regulation of a field of relations and issues, which has been the subject of legislative or regulatory intervention. So you want to intervene by now appointing a committee with a three-year term of office. So I come now to the second chapter, which is, as we have understood from the developments and the substance of this piece of legislation, which essentially seeks to intervene in an unacceptable way in the independence of the National Committee on Human Rights, which is an independent advisory body of the State, substantially amending its founding law in 1998 based on the Paris authorities. You have already provoked the resignation of the President from the "Marchakopoulos Foundation" and is not in the New Democracy. You have already provoked the Vice-President's reaction within the committee, which comes from the 'Women's Rights League' and is not in the New Democracy. Finally, you have also made a reaction at European level to the President of the European Network and complaints are raining. The committee asked you to withdraw the order. You have been alarmed by the danger, because this unacceptable government intervention substantially alters the composition of the committee, abolishes the principles of equality and representativeness, violates the Paris authorities, according to which these committees decide themselves on their composition. Obviously, at some point, when it was first set up, it was decided by law who would be involved, but then there is an independence that should allow these committees to decide how it will be extended and with which members. In fact, I'm surprised. It is terrible that the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights should resign and blame you, Mr Minister, for arrogance, authoritarianism and insulting teaching, because we remember what happened within the committee. They told you there would be malfunctional problems because there would be no quorum. Already, with twenty-five members and 50+1 have no quorum. In fact, the committee will be strangled through a so-called democratic enlargement and will, of course, lose, as it turns out, evaluation I, which our committee has taken so hard on behalf of Greece. In fact, you are suddenly causing for some reasons that you know, an imbalance, an anomaly, adding new members, while just now, on 18 March 2019, the Prime Minister appointed the members of the committee. I'll give it to you for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, while there was already a Roma organisation, for example, you come to add two more Roma organisations and five LGBTQ organisations. Not to mention them now, this is the Interracial Support Association, the pride festival, etc. We are talking about five LGBTKI and three Roma organizations, at the same time as only one women's organisation, the 'Women's Rights Association', while the disabled movement has only one vote, while there are no critical ministries, such as Health and the Environment. Of course, Mr Pappas' digital policy could obviously not be missing. Well, now I imagine Mr. Poppas could at other times, if it hadn't happened, put a representative of Manolos in committee to represent him. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Don't get bored. That's the situation. With Petsite you went to Cesarean, with Petsite you took the government, with Petsite you went to the referendum. Don't be unconscious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u64	It's like Petsite's the people!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u65	No serious arguments!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u66	What arguments I use, ma'am, is my point and the Greek people judge it, as you will judge. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u67	Luckily he's intelligent!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u68	So you didn't care anything else than I understood. You wanted to abolish the principle of equality and put eight votes in two categories only, while the same committee had expanded and put in place an organisation by the Roma and had set up a special advisory network with forty-six organisations, involving the LGBTIs and other groups, whose rights must be protected against racism and behaviour, but not as an advisory body. You could, if you'd like, put it in a draw. It could alternately have such a vote. But you don't do that. Try to change the composition of the committee to ensure the favor of certain social groups for purely voting reasons. However, the National Committee on Human Rights is not the place to make your transactions and to win the votes of the particular social groups, which is your purpose, without, of course, being absolutely certain that you will gain in what you are doing. You are literally concerned about the rights of much larger population groups, although they have different issues and problems. Not all disabled people, for example, have the same problems. Why didn't you add their different categories to their different problems? It is also very outrageous that women who are not a social group, but who are more than half of the population, have only one vote in committee, as you want to create it from the outset. Of course, you have received the answer to the unprecedented attack on the President and Vice-President of the Committee on Human Rights. You targeted them, Minister, and you accused them of not realizing their role. You have essentially politicised the issue, speaking of a different ideological position. And you went on to say that the scientific staff, which on the basis of international standards, must be permanent, expresses concrete views, that is to say, different views. In other words, the staff must also be chosen on the basis of their ideology. Then you told us a wisdom, namely that rights do not conflict with each other and have equal value. Apparently they are of equal value. But when they vote? Isn't there a equality of vote there? Obviously, the value of every right is self-evident, but the principle of equality requires that everyone be treated in the same way, with equality. Why should the rights of a social group with different problems not be disgusted, but can the rights of other groups be disgusted, which also have different problems? So women don't have any different problems? Aren't there those who support one parental families making them have one vote? Aren't there those who support multiple families? And those rights may be violated. Are there no women who are working or working households at the same time? Let everyone vote, be a general assembly, never a quorum. Well, that's not just us. I want to submit all the documents here: I would like to submit the resignation of the chairman of the National Commission for Human Rights. I would like to present, Mr President, the CSR communication calling for withdrawal. I would like to present the comments made to you by the ECHR on December 6, 2018, asking for consultation, which you did not make. I would like to put forward the communication from the National Committee on Human Rights, which. He also disagrees. I want to submit the GSC announcement. And finally, I want to submit the informal translation - you know, Minister of State, you are, has received a letter from the Prime Minister - about what you are doing today and ask you to come back after consultation, as foreseen by the Paris authorities. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I conclude by telling you that with this initiative you are also showing that you are no longer addressing the whole of society, but in your panic you are only talking to those who you imagine will come to support you in the elections. You are, in fact, trying to deceive them by sharing them with committees. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why I am telling you, Minister, that we will certainly be voting against your legislation. As far as the amendment on forestry and the register are concerned, which is the result of your own oligopolys - you said that it is a very easy job, which you would do at 'fair-out' - we will be positive, because it is suffering too much people in the way in which you manage the matter. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Buddhism. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and three educational attendants from the 5th Chalkida School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the system of documents has been closed. Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to remind you that I have closed my position in committee yesterday, saying: 'I am afraid we do not need the bill and I fear that it will not be necessary both in the first part and in the second part, unless matters which have already been raised before our committee are resolved'. That was my last proposal in the preparation of the bill. Today, of course, I have to say that in the debate in plenary the items which were put to committee are progressing in a crisis situation. And why am I saying that? I do not judge the resignation of the chairman of the National Committee on Human Rights. It was his choice. That was his right. However, I am most opposed to the international body, the UN, which came from the Paris step, calling for the withdrawal of the second part of the bill, which concerns the composition and functioning of the National Commission. The following questions have been asked automatically: When the government leads to such a crisis an institution which, even if supervised, formally falls under the Prime Minister, has the characteristics of independence, has the characteristics of an association with the UN and with all the efforts of the UN on human rights, the insistence - or insistence - that a new composition of the committee should be established today, despite the objections of those who are aware of their work through them, what does it show? It shows that we are leading to a discount on the protection of rights. And I have to say that. This is what someone understands when there are objections, reactions, objections to such a category of issues, such as human rights issues. At this point too, and from this point of view, I can only applaud the functioning of the committee, which has carried out work in critical areas. If one goes to open her website and see the exhibitions posted, it has work in every direction. So insistence - I shall also use this condition, Mr President - to change today - even after the end of this term - the composition of the committee, in a way which is not understood as what would serve most, is something that is concerned. Of course I will accept that when the institutions are more personal, there is a fermentation, there is a dialogue. But when the representatives of these organisations are invited to vote, there is no possibility of forming a quorum. I do not see that the government, which insists on the maintenance of the bill before the House, has put it to the vote. But I have to say something else, something crucial, which I was well aware of during the debate in the committees, and now it is very clear to me. When I see the committee, the Parliamentary Scientific Service - which I understand it for its work, for its legal self-sufficiency and for the democratic way in which it is placed in the bills - hitting the alarm and saying - and if you want me to read it out - 'In the light of the above it is clear that we need to maintain tiers of accreditation and therefore exercise that competence, which must demonstrate its independence and before international organisations', I understand that it puts a parameter at the moment and tells us this: 'Beware of government interventions. It may formally have the right under law...’. I have expressed my opinion - and I also support it - that, if we were to extend the composition of the committee, we should have expressly given the competence - the advisory committee, the advisory committee - before any legislative initiative is taken by the government and especially the crucial issue of expanding the composition, in which case also the extension of its powers. I do not want to turn the committee into a legislature, but a simple opinion would always lead to a synthesis of views and, in the end, would also lead to a convergence of divergent differences. That's not even what happened. I, too, and the Democratic Integration during the debate in committees in favour of the bill. Today, however, in the light of new developments, we are obliged to vote against the bill as a whole. We must also vote against it for the second part - I have already mentioned a five-minute question in my speech - but also in the first part concerning codification, the codification process, bureaucracy, if you like, the codification as it is introduced so that it cannot be denounced that we accept this policy, which has been carried out. And I want to remind you of something else. The committee was criticised by my dear colleague - I will not say who he is, he is present in the Chamber - because, he says, we are voting against codification. We do not vote against codification. We are voting against the craftsmanship and the inappropriate way in which a bill is introduced, which is referred to under the false title 'in codification' and which we had explained. I explained it myself, ladies and gentlemen. I said that. There is the Law on Good Legislation, Law 4048.’ Of course, since it was voted, I have not understood that neither of those who voted for it nor those who have been called upon to implement it in the last four years. And we are all witnessing how to legislate, with unnecessary amendments, with interventions, etc. So I said, yes, coding is good. The oldest lawyers have experience of private codifications that were useful to us both in the exercise of the profession or in the performance of justice. So we already have a Central Coding Committee today since 2003. I saw doubtfully, I saw a few results all along. Eight new codes if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u71	Six.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u72	Six have been voted on?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u73	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u74	Yes, six. What will a new legislation now provide for speeding up codification? Greece has a disadvantage. It has many times unnecessary legislative work. And I am not only talking about the work of the House, I am not only talking about the formal law, but about the regulatory frameworks on the basis of existing powers. No law comes full, but it always has powers, so that it stays in public administration and the Minister of State, of course, to say it better, the decisive authority. I have insisted and become tiring from now on: we are talking about a committee on codification and reforming law. He gave some explanation and said: 'Reform, you know, it's clearing, it's what's true, what's not true'. But this is for me to restructure the law. Restructuring of a law when we do, we change the order of articles, paragraphs, we do not include codification, those which have been tacitly or explicitly abolished. This is therefore the concept of restructuring. But the concept of review is now legal...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u75	The reform.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u76	The reform, excuse me. The concept of reform is now legal. We have a definition of the concept given to n. It says: 'Reforming law is the reregulation of a field of relations and matters which has been the subject of legislative or regulatory intervention'. Reform is therefore an essential legislative initiative. How will this be done within the framework of a committee - centralised even - codification, but also the intervention of a strategic interministerial committee? Because we found this on the way that he's voted on and I'll tell you right away, I'll invoke the law, so you won't be empty. With the n. 4369 the Mobility Act was established...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u77	2016?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u78	Yes, of 2016. A National Council for the Codification and Reform of Greek legislation was set up. That's a nice thing to hear. Of course, there is also a constitutional problem which is not here because the Secretary of Parliament is also represented. I do not know whether these two bodies between executive and legislative power can coexist with such administrative committees. I'm putting that aside. So it comes up and says we have a National Strategy Council on Legislation, Codification and Reform. We don't have much anymore? How will these work? Encoding has an easy way, if you want. I'm tired, I repeat myself many times and you'll forgive me. Today with the electronic information banks, with two new partners who have a duty to codify, you will immediately locate the existing provisions, you will classify them, put them in capital, have a small cost, and that matters. Why am I talking about cost? Because from the past we have had a bad experience of codification, supposedly, which was commissioned by ministries to friends possibly with some millions. That is what I see as risky of repeating now, because we are talking about a national portal for the codification and reform of Greek legislation. As I understand it, it is an ESDP programme, which will also be financed from national funds. As I understand it, what's the point? To create, I would not say private, an administrative codification of the framework text. So I heard yesterday that it's not worth much, it's cheap, it's 143,000. I think you mentioned, Minister, a number. I read here and I see other numbers. I see 1,255,000. It doesn't matter the amount. Let us say that it is necessary to set up a national codification portal. What's the date? It's 5-3-2019. Is it starting now? Since the law of 2016, which has been in place since the beginning of 2016 and has been talking about a national strategy, it has already been three years and now we are making a full integration of the act. That's not over. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We see, in other words, uncoordinated, unconnected and many dangerous. In the reform I will be staying, Mr President, for this reason. When I have a legislative definition of the reform of law, if the government wants to give serious support to the first part of the bill, it must also amend Law 4048 to remove that point in the definition that reform is reregulation. Stay in the codings. Of course I'll hear the answer from the Minister later. You know, it says, when we have a code, those issues that need a normal procedure in Parliament, they won't go under the code procedure. Yes, they won't go in the code process, but do you know, when three hundred or four hundred articles, hundreds of general articles come in, is Parliament able to carry them out? It will either accept them or reject them. We do not promote legislation or the economy. Because it has been said that codification will generate income, that it will increase, if I am not mistaken, by 0.3% or 0.4% of the country's GDP. Don't consider the number perfectly accurate, I don't have a full picture in mind. But all this deserves to be discussed, as is the case today, because there should already be a result of the Central Codification Committee, so as to say that it is a useful institution. There is no result until today. We are convinced that the legislations as they come to these categories simply give an alibi of inertia. We are talking about an alibi of inertia, because that is why we see the four, five or ten years of inertia of a respective committee, we give an alibi, an asylum, and we say that we will start today. Shall we start today? When are we going to end up? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end with this, Mr President, in relation to the second part, because you see that I have already overturned the order of legislation today, to refer to the developments in the National Committee on Human Rights, for which we have already placed ourselves in a negative position. You understand that it does not automatically involve our negative vote in the first part, because we have also justified our position on it. So that a large part of the committee should not be transferred from this House to committees and, in particular, to an administrative committee, as I would call it this codification committee. There's no independence, there's nothing to justify this pompous title. Do not move. They're capable of the ministries. They're giving assent, as I heard, for codification. The chairman of the codification committee said so. It says "we also have contractors". If we have contractors, we obviously follow the public procurement procedure. When a ministry finds that it has to codify legislation, when the government considers in general that it has to codify a particular sector of law, since, in any case, it will end up with contractors, and the central committee will be, supposedly, the expedited agency, what do we need from central committees or from national strategic committees? All this enriches bureaucracy. They may give a gigantic piece of legislation. But it is not good to legislate in this way, and so that I do not repeat what I have said so far, we have a negative vote in the whole bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Carras. I would like to inform the House that seven colleagues have been registered to speak. I'm telling you, to calculate your time. Mr Helios, a special speaker from the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Today's bill consists of eleven overall articles. The first nine concern the establishment, establishment and responsibilities of the Central Coding Committee and constitute the SYRIZA Government's attempt to serve in good cooperation with the PASOK old-fashioned committee. The government's experience with the old PASOK officials who no doubt led the country to the cliff, and their obvious absorption by the SYRIZA congress is the confirmation that nothing has changed in the political life of the country. In this respect, it is appropriate to mention the commonly accepted view that the legal framework in force in Greece, as established in the last few decades, is characterised as a demonstrable legal framework. As a result of this situation, there are many ambiguities and interpretative difficulties in the application of laws and in the administration of justice. We have said many times that we have no lack of laws. In the application of the laws we are lagging behind here in Greece. The alleged purpose of the draft law is to amend the provisions of d.d.32/2004, under which the Central Consolidation Committee was established. Its purpose was to systemify and generalise the work of codifying legislation. As it emerged from the hearing of the bodies and in particular John Symonides, the chairman of the Central Coding Committee, the Coding Committee exists and seems to operate for at least fifteen years when it was set up by Law 3133/2003. As a result of this draft law, you do not, of course, introduce the setting up of a new committee responsible for codification. On the contrary, you are trying, in a hard way, to pass a new law under which you will make the CEC a body of political power. And when the next government comes, it will very well be possible to make the relevant amendments to the law, to adopt the relevant prime decisions and to re-establish the codification committee. Of course, since 2013, the Central Coding Committee has not been working - and what is it working in that state? - and he didn't produce any substantial coding work. And this highlights another pathogen of the State's dazzling organizational mechanism. They could not have missed your government's bill, of course, and the predictions of joining people and various reasonings - we will see them later - in the National Committee on Human Rights and the National Committee on Bioethics. Another inequality against the Greeks! At the theoretical level, the codification of existing legislation is one of the key procedures for good legislature, since it contributes substantially to dealing with pluralism and to the system of the legal order. In doing so, conflicts between provisions with similar content are resolved, and it is facilitated to identify what is ultimately in place with a direct consequence of the achievement of legal certainty. This important task was undertaken by the Central Coding Committee as a response to the chronic Greek problem of pluralism. The codes it undertakes to draw up are distinguished by codes of formal law, which are ratified by the House as provided for in Article 76 of the Constitution, and by codes of regulatory decrees and administrative decisions adopted by a Presidential Decree on a proposal from the competent authorities - depending, of course, on the subject of the Code - Ministers. The overall regulatory framework of the JRC shows that the codification work requires legal scientific training. It is therefore explicitly foreseen that almost exclusively qualified people from the field of legal science should participate in this composition. But why did you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, decide on the appointment of the members of the JV following a decision of the Prime Minister, as expressly provided for in Article 1(3) of the bill? Tell us what this provision serves, and why you do not introduce a special accelerated procedure for selecting the members of the committee from the institutions to which they belong. The answer is obvious, and it is, of course, about your intention to create relationships between the Central Committee on Codification and the Government for as long as you still manage power. Turning now to the objective of the JRC, we must denounce that the need for codification arises from the codification of the directives and regulations imposed by the European Union. The production of domestic law has been limited, in particular, to provisions arising from the memorandum contracts, and it is allegedly tending to make the environment favourable for implementing, allegedly, reforms. Our justice system is suffering. He suffers from the incoherent provisions, suffers from the rough legacy, suffers from your inability to serve the interest of the Greek people. Going to Article 10 of the bill - on membership of the National Committee on Human Rights, but also in the Bioethics Committee - we have to observe this clearly. The introduction of a provision on legality and the introduction of participation in the National Committee on Human Rights and in the National Committee on Bioethics from organisations of transgender, homosexual, lesbians and so on could not be missed. You have put five such organisations in order to have five votes in the Human Rights Committee. As we know, it is a amendment to Law 2667/1998, which introduced the functioning of the committees mentioned earlier. It is worth wondering what the participation of so many people - those in particular - will serve to highlight the issues of bioethics and human rights. Ideas, political integration of social minorities and, of course, settlement of party obligations against the components of the ruling party! The amendment of Article 2 of Law 2667/1998 on the possibility of establishing a number of NGOs the persons who wish to serve these committees proves to be quite true that what we have been denounced for years about the official relations of the left in the various NGOs is absolutely true. Here, too, we can see that there is a provision for the appointment of alternate members, in surplus, with what this means to the State budget. The representative of the ECHR has supported the government's initiative on the proposed amendments and said that, unfortunately, the recent legislative initiative finds the National Commission on Human Rights completely contrary to what he contains and to what he is ignoring. This committee, of course, and the appointment of the members - those you have chosen to add - is a very great debate, which we could have done for hours, for what you are looking for. Because it has happened to be rapporteur in other relevant bills, in all the bills that this government legislates, always the LGBTKI and all these various mysterious guys have priority. They are prioritised against the normal Greeks, they are prioritised against the families, the Greeks having families, the Greek mothers. All these people who represent and represent in Greece 0.001% of the Greek population, for you, have priority. You have never thought about how a Greek family is going through, you have never thought about the Greek mother who should work two and three jobs and at the same time take care of and raise her children. You have not considered the single parent families, the multiple families who have suffered from your own measures all these years, and the analgesia of a state that actually does not see them. There are no these people for you. However, 0.001% of the Greek population must enjoy all the privileges, have more rights than any other Greek. Because that is not equality and human rights. This is inequality against the rest of the normal. Because you realize that this is all rather than nature. Nature has not created these people that you stand up for with so strong. These have been done along the way, based on the models of societies that you create. That is why I am telling you that it takes hours for this debate. You create standards - all over the world, not only here in Greece - against the family. Institute, legislate this whole framework, so that people can finally become and appear and substantially alter the social fabric of our country. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] We believe in the Greek family. We are very clear against all of this. We think every family and every child should have their mother and father. It's so simple to understand. And you should understand it, but you have these blinds of your ideas. However, we must stress it in here. The normality must be stressed here, in the Greek Parliament, because normal for you no longer has priority, you don't give him any meaning, it doesn't matter. We will stress and say that the Greek family, the Greeks must have their mom and dad. So simple! We have said that to the previous governments, we will also tell your government, but we will also tell all those governments who will come, because we will be here for many years - we will support the Greek family. We believe in homeland, we believe in religion, and we believe in the family.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u81	The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. The question of the concentration of legislation, as we have pointed out in the debate on the draft legislation before the committees, so that everyone can know safely and easily what happens every time on a specific subject, sector - if you wish - which concerns them, is really necessary. As noted in the explanatory memorandum, the bill is a Memorandum of Understanding in the light of the country's reform priorities, as resulting from Act No.4336, the third Memorandum, which was adopted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, New Democracy, PASOK and Potami. It is planned that funds should be made available to this end under the Operational Programme ‘Reform of the Public Sector’ and the Central Coding Committee is reconstituted by a decision of the Prime Minister. So the bill we are discussing is part of the changes that are being promoted and which concern the necessary adaptation of the urban state to the modern conditions and needs of capitalist development, to the armoring of, that is, the profitability and power of business groups, with the ever greater foundation of the entire legislative framework that they have in their hands and are consistently strengthening on their behalf all the urban governments as they are today. The main issue for the Communist Party of Greece is the legislation that needs to be codified, codified. We are talking about an increasingly anti-popular, anti-popular legislation with the hundreds of memorandum laws that apply, about legislation that incorporates the reactionary euro-union directives and decisions, which provides continuous facilities and privileges to the large business groups. And precisely in this respect, no other party has referred to it, nor has it mentioned any other aspect - and also the debate in the committees, but even so far on the speeches made by the rapporteurs - but they have been confined to procedural matters. Of course, the responsibility for the situation created by the large number of legislative provisions, where it is difficult for the law-makers themselves to pull aside, lies with the governments themselves by constantly adapting Greek legislation to the Euro-Union law, through the constant transposition of the European Union directives and decisions, by the systematic introduction of all such emblems and amendments to unrelated bills in breach of the Constitution. And that's what's happening today. Let me not go back to the past, which examples are too much for the present government and for the previous ones. Last time at the beginning of plenary we have an unrelated amendment from the Ministry of Shipping to an unrelated bill. But in this direction too, the truth is that the current government, which blamed the previous government, has overrun it greatly in the implementation of this unacceptable practice. So, in fact, the codification that is being attempted is intended to contribute, on the one hand, to the more systematic state and governmental control of the application of this anti-Fragian legislation, to the identification of gaps and contradictions that need to be covered and resolved, while, on the other, it is the vehicle to simulate all the improper anti-Fragatory laws and to deepen the anti-Fragian arsenal that was voted for the benefit of the capital in the course of the three series of memoranda, and that is another characteristic proof that the end of the memoranda and return to the normality that the government is making, is another propaganda myth. On the other hand, the codification is intended to contribute to the service of large business groups, both domestic and foreign, so that it is clearer, simplified and easily accessible to them in which they can operate and make investments for their profits. That is what they constantly demand at all times through safe legal rules, removal of all sorts of bureaucratic obstacles, simplification of procedures and so on. These, together with other interventions demanded by business groups, are also those implied by slogans such as the need to have legal certainty and stable - a legislative framework in order to speed up the implementation of business plans for their profitability. This is not reflected in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, that is, the reference to adverse effects for individuals and their rights and goes by saying? At the same time, through these changes, the government aims to close any cracks in the confidence of the workers of the people in urban areas, but also in more active integration and campaigning the people into the objectives of capital, which is seen as one of the main prerequisites for the stability that capital needs. This is behind the reference also made in the explanatory statement to the unfavourable consequences of the pluralism that exists for civil relations with the state. And, precisely in order to serve these basic objectives, the bill proposes to strengthen the composition and function of the Central Coding Committee, as well as to extend the powers of the Coding Committee which already exists. At this level too, there are problematic provisions which we have put forward in the committee as well, such as, for example, the serious role, of course, to be played by the Central Committee on Codification, not only in itself, but also in the reform of the law. But where we focused and put our objections, our objections, our concerns, our concerns, were the criteria on which this reform would be implemented. If you see the amendment you have tabled, which comes to complete this bill as regards the part of Chapter I, the CEC, speaks of the abolition of laws and paragraphs by means of codification. So you leave the room for intervention through the so-called'reform'. Is it or isn't it? Furthermore, the Central Committee for Coding as a permanent and permanent instrument, whose members will be appointed by a decision of the Prime Minister, serve the priorities of the respective government. Furthermore, the provision on compensation for the members of the Central Coding Committee will be laid down by a decision of the Prime Minister himself by way of derogation from any special provision. We also have the delegation of preparatory actions to third persons through assignments. As far as Chapter II of the bill on the amendment of the composition of the National Committee on Human Rights, as we have stressed in committee, this provision is in a negative direction. We asked the committee and the debate on the first and second readings, on Tuesday, on the withdrawal of this provision, this article, in order to have an integrated and effective debate and debate with the Committee on Human Rights on the issues of its composition. Of course, on the basis of the information we had some time ago, there is also a negative development with the resignation of the President of the National Commission for Human Rights in our country. Our objection is not to the involvement of organisations from groups of people - such as those designated or designated, or designated, that have been proposed, if you like, that is, the so-called LGBTQ community of people with a different sexual orientation, or the Roma - but to their disproportionately large number. For example, instead of being one of each LGBTK representative of homosexuals, one from transsexuals and goes by saying, in other words, a total of five, could not be one, for example, representative from this community? For example - and this has been discussed in committee too - what about other vulnerable groups? We set the example of people with disabilities. What's gonna happen? Disabled people's organisations with many problems, of course, there are dozens not to say any more. What's gonna happen? We therefore say that balanced participation in the bodies represented in the Committee on Human Rights will be altered, and their excessive growth will lead to its malfunctioning. Alongside the debate in the committee, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection took place and the major problems in its operation were not addressed, such as job insecurity with industrial relations - project contracts, contracts of every type of scientific staff - that overtime is not paid and the request for conversion into existing contracts of employment in indefinite time. This was also the proposal tabled by the resignation chairman to the committee. And, obviously, they have raised it and have in the past claimed this request, this issue, if you like. Also, the fact that no overtime is paid, the issues of the committee's housing, the issue of reduced funds, the reduced, incomplete budget as they have been submitted to us in the committee, and the fact that the promotion of this article in the bill comes into addition to a number of acts or omissions which hamper the effective functioning of the EMCDDA, such as the significant delay of months in the adoption of an act of the appointment of the members of the new national Commission by the Prime Minister, which has made it difficult to involve the National Commission in international bodies, as well as failure to comply with the regulations on the status of its staff. Apart from the debate on this provision, however, let me refer to human rights issues. In our view, the big question is the test of the act. We, the JRC, feel and commit ourselves to striving before all else to eliminate the cause, the first source from which the violation of human rights begins, which is the exploitation of human labour, the concentration of wealth and the ownership of wealth resulting from the over-treatment of people. We oppose all forms of human exploitation and violation of human rights, particularly those that separate people according to ethnicity, religion, race and gender. We believe that the Greek people are able to see the substance that separates the typical Declaration of Human Rights and their proclamation. On the basis of all the above, we are voting against the bill in principle. Mr President, I shall refer to a ministerial amendment tabled to the committee, which was incorporated into the bill as an article. It is the amendment with a general number of 2069 and a special 5 to extend the submission of objections to forest maps. In addition to the extension given by the amendment to those who wish to object, we say that the length of the extension is small. We say that it is as necessary as necessary for all the objections to be raised. In fact, when we discussed this in the respective bill - and that is what I have just said before and what I am about to say - we had tabled it, we had made a statement and had requested it to be implemented, regardless of whether it had not been done. That's first. Secondly, all the procedures for exercising the objections should be done without financial burdens on the parties concerned, of course with responsibility for the respective state services and with the responsibility of the State to cover the costs of such objections. That's what I'm closing down with, Mr. President. We shall have the opportunity, because there are three other ministerial amendments, to put them in second place, even soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u83	We shall proceed with the last special speaker, Mr Ioannis Saridis, from the Central Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Central Association will vote against today's bill and this is not the result of the resignation of the President of the independent authority. It has to do with the hypocrisy that we always see in this Chamber. It's about this theatrical scenery that exists. Sometime it'll have to end. Eight and a half years we've been inside the memoirs. We destroyed everything in this Chamber. And we are now coming to talk about laws of good legislature eight months after our famous exit from the memorials. I shall begin with my introduction with a reference to the recent statement by the anticipated Roman Catholic Church, according to which the Prime Minister of our country deserves to be awarded with Nobel, mainly because he believes - the Prime Minister of our country - that human rights are above international agreements. In a Europe that continues to plunge into division, in Greece which is facing all sorts of consequences and the refugee crisis and increasing migration flows, the expression of this view that we must, that is, put human rights above the international treaties, is, indeed, a courageous act. However, let us see whether the distance between the words and the works is small or if it is large, and whether it is such a distance to justify the optimism of those who believe that Greece is taking the lead in defending human rights. Since October 2015, the Greek Government has not even taken into account the opinions of the National Commission for Human Rights once. That's the truth. Once the committee was not informed in time of the Government's intentions. Not once has it been fully informed of the legislative initiatives taken by any ministry, even when these clearly concerned human rights. The most important thing is that even once its observations, its proposals and its opinions have not been taken advantage of. And not only of the very principle of this principle but also of other bodies, associations that came into this Chamber to tell us their opinion. As has already been said, Greece, under the leadership of a Prime Minister who is aware of the value of defending human rights, is making sure that it offers the huge amount of EUR 140,000 for the operation of a national and independent advisory body, which aims to strengthen the effort that every organised democracy, every favoured state, is committed to safeguarding and defending the famous Paris authorities. One hundred and forty thousand euros and three rooms. That is what our country gives us for human rights. That is what this committee is worth, that is to say, for the current government. We do not need to make special references to what money we give to, to whom and to whom, for unrelated and indifferent purposes - they are spent right and left - so that we can effectively highlight the enormous depreciation and great indifference shown by the budget for the functioning of this committee. So it costs 140,000 euros in the organised state, the operation of the Committee on Human Rights. The papers spent on a ministry cost far more than the 140,000 euros we give this committee. I am very sorry, but if you think that the constant and difficult fight to defend human rights in Greece is in any way reinforced by the Government's legislative initiative under discussion by adding to the committee's plenary three votes of representatives of the Roma and five votes of representatives of the LGBTKI community, you are making a big mistake, very much wrong. What we should be discussing today is exactly how and how our legislative initiatives will have better documentation in the direction of defending human rights and how we will manage to strengthen the work of those people who have a heavy responsibility to identify the best ways of improving the laws in our country, with an incentive and a view to safeguarding and defending human rights. To be clear, when in a committee which does not give it any importance, which you do not take into account, that you do not support it either economically or in any other practical way, you go and add to its composition some more members, this does not prove that you are going to better, that you suddenly understand the value of this committee, and in some way you are trying to strengthen its function or, of course, your sincere concern for human rights seems somewhere. The only thing that proves this move, namely the increase in members, is the extent of the mockery shown by the government to the same who adds one position and one vote to the committee concerned. What can we do to increase the members of a committee that no one respects? What should we do with it? The first to react, in the view of the Centro Association, are the same ones that have become the proposal to participate. What is the respect for this committee, in other words? They themselves, both the Roma and the representatives of the transgenders, should wonder what their presence in this committee will have. Will something change from the way the committee is dealing with its work, because there will be additional representatives of the Roma community, additional representatives of the LGBTQ community? Suddenly, will the ministries, if the composition of this committee changes and in this direction, make sure that they ask, fully inform and respect the Committee on Human Rights, because the three representatives of the Roma and the five representatives of the LGBTK community are involved from now on? Will it work more effectively, be more useful? So her views on human rights will change? Will the government take these views into account now because they will be of greater importance? Will this committee be able to work effectively if we continue to give it EUR 140,000 and three documents, because we changed its composition and added six more members so that they do not fit in the meetings' offices? I repeat that the first ones who, in my opinion, should react to this mockery are the same ones to which, on its own initiative today, the government offers its position in these committees and it is very simple: because they are chairs without feet, they are seats without any opposition and votes on which, as has been proved, no one is interested. If, indeed, what we would like to achieve was to strengthen the fight to defend human rights in an institutional and democratic way, then we would not discuss in the framework of just one article, Article 10, in an irrelevant bill of human rights. This debate should follow on from an exhaustive public consultation on human rights and an entire, autonomous and autonomous draft law, which, once it had solved the committee's practical and operational problems first, would also be useful. In particular, in our legislative work it would look to increase the representativeness of its wholeheartedness. In short, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what you are doing today is cutting off tickets to a train that will never start from the station. So let those who live, let them go up even those who don't fit in it. It makes no difference, because the train is not going to start at the station, because it has no fuel, because it has no driver, because it has no tracks, because we have not taken care of all this to start this train. That is why I spoke at the beginning of my suggestion of hypocrisy in this Chamber, the mockery. If, in fact, we were interested in human rights here in Greece, then, ladies and gentlemen, Moria would not be in this situation, our prisons would not be in this situation, Greek society itself, if we were interested in human rights, would not be in this situation. If you would like to increase the representativeness of the committee, then you would not favour the division - because that is what you are doing - of the Roma community or of the LGBTQ community, but you would have to cooperate with them. They should work together! Do you know what that expression means? To cooperate and defend their rights together. Why three representatives of the Roma? Why? Do they have different rights? Why five representatives? Do they have different rights? Don't they all have the same rights? Not all Greek citizens have the same rights? Other rights for transsexuals and other rights for homosexuals? For us all Greek citizens have the same rights and face the same risks. Only micro-groups, therefore, serve the multitude of social groups. Because I have spoken of hypocrisy and before I close my comment on the current government's legislative initiative, you will allow me to apologize to Karaggiozis. A comment, therefore, on the attempt to codify the chaos of Greek laws, a comment on your so-called legislative initiative to better legislate in the Greek Parliament. Carrots, ladies and gentlemen. That's the word that fits your effort. And I am very sorry to say that from this step in this Chamber. I'm so sorry about the thinking. I'm very sorry about how to deal with it. I'm sorry about the mocking, the continuing mocking. I'm sorry about the lie and I'm mad. I am angry that nothing has changed, that the suffering has not been taught, it has not been understood that we are in the Greek Parliament, it has not been understood that you are the government of all Greeks. With this approach not to ask the Greek people why the road is long and difficult, the one we all have to do together from whatever position we are, from a position of responsibility, irresponsibleness, from a position that the people are judging on the sidewalks about what is going on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We drive him on this road. Politicians are opening the way to the Greek people. Citizens follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u85	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u86	We are voting against the government's legislative initiative as a whole. However, we shall be voting in favour of the amendment brought by the Ministry of the Environment on the extension to forest maps, as well as the amendment by the Ministry of Health and the amendment by the Ministry of Shipping, and we shall vote against the amendment - a continuation of the legislative effort of the relevant Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory forty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th High School of Chalkida (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed as follows: I shall give the floor from five minutes to the two Ministers, Mr Polakis and Mr Santorini, to present their amendment. Then, Minister, I would like you to tell me whether you will be given the floor now or after all the seven Members have spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u88	Let them speak two or three Members, and then I shall take the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u89	Good. You will then speak after the Members, because the parliamentary representatives want to hear you and take the floor. Unless they want earlier, as they have the right. But they usually want to talk after the Minister. Here, Mr Polakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is the amendment with a general number of 2073 and a special number of 9. In essence, with this amendment, we are resolving a problem created by the implementation of the new Single Health Regulation of the EEA, which concerns the organisation of the electronic systems that have now been fully implemented. In the medium term, however, there has been a failure to submit a number of requests through the contracts that we have with the providers and, in fact, with the amendment, we allow up to 30-6-2019 individual requests to be compensated, in addition to compensation for the providers who offer these services. In particular, the problem still exists is with special treatment and optics, where we allow both systems to coexist by 30 July in order to be compensated for the individual demands made by the insured, because they do so to providers who refuse to sign a contract with the EEA. We solve this problem, hoping that optics will slowly be persuaded, but also specialists. In special lawsuits, a number of centers have been awarded. To make all contracts so that patients receiving these services do not pre-pay these services, either to the optics or to the specialists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u91	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. [[The above-mentioned legislative improvement is submitted for the Minutes and is as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[TAKE PAGE 116]] This is the amendment with a general number of 2074 and a special number of 10. The amendment concerns extending the application of the transport equivalent after the pilot run, where we have seen some problems that exist. As we all know, the negative aspects of insularity include, on the one hand, the weather conditions and, on the other hand, the great amount of time needed to make passenger transport. This is why it is added to the eligible transport opportunities of islanders and air transport, which is vital for vulnerable population groups, such as elderly people, such as patients and others. Let me make it clear here that the subsidy will be made on the basis of the grant made to maritime transport and will not exceed this subsidy. I would also like to clarify that we are not subsidising planes and boats, but we are subsidising the islanders themselves. We also add new beneficiaries, because we see that there are people in need of this benefit and who cannot receive, for example, the members of the higher education establishments on the islands and the members of the Security Councils, the members of the Armed Forces who are serving there. I would say that it is a minimum compensation for the work that they provide to our islands. Already, as you know, it applies to assistant teachers, but also to subsidiary doctors. Also, after a lot of consultation, which took place here in Parliament as well as with the Region of Crete and the municipalities of Crete and the Chambers of Commerce, are part of a series of business activities in Crete for the transport of products to and from Crete, because we have found that there is additional transport costs due to ferry transport. We therefore give the opportunity to include certain business activities. This is why a study is being carried out by the University of Piraeus on the mandate of the Chambers of Crete and the Region of Crete and we are waiting for the results to be finalised by the joint ministerial decision. Also, at long coastline distances, it was found that islanders need to take a bed to sleep. So far, we have only paid the financial position. That is why this reference to the economic position is repealed and essentially through the joint ministerial decision the bed is subsidised for distances of more than 80 miles. Finally, I would like to say that the pilot implementation of fuel is extended for a further six months, because it expired in the summer, in June, and so we could not have enough data based on the tourist season. That is why we are extending the application. At this point, I would like to inform the House that the joint ministerial decision has been adopted, it has taken FEK and the petrol stations are already starting to subsidise up to 19.5 minutes per litre. This means that long before Easter we will see a significant reduction in fuel costs on the islands included in pilot implementation. Two hundred thousand tickets have already been subsidized. Nine and a half thousand applications for financing have already been handled. The transport costs of enterprises have been reduced by an average of 43%. Transport equivalent is an institution that has been embraced by islanders, embraced by island businesses, and with these improvements we move towards making even more useful for our islanders. We are here to make further changes, as long as we see that this helps the island territory. I also want to make a legislative improvement in the amendment. In Article 1 after the words "from mainland Greece to the island" the words "or island to the island" are added, so that there are no misinterpretations. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u94	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u95	Don't go, Minister. Only detailed questions will be asked by colleagues. Mr. Amyras first raised his hand. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, we must say that it is a good thing to extend the transport equivalent to the air travel of the islands. The truth, of course, is that nothing is offered from scratch, so that the islanders enjoy it. You've been reducing or trying to reduce the landslide to the islands' households since you increased the VAT and took it to the islands from 6% to 23% -24%. However, Minister, I would like to point out to you that transport-equivalent receptors, as you have said, are the categories of permanent civil servants, but in the essence of teachers. Deputy teachers, of course, take the transport equivalent. A permanent teacher appointed, for example, in Folegandros, who is from Serres and will stay in Folegandros for three or four years to have the transport equivalent, will have to make a transfer of his DU from the place of his original residence, that is, from Serres to Folegandros. Every two or three years, therefore, if from there, from Folegandros, then transferred to Sikino, then transferred to New York, then transferred to Kalymnos, this permanent teacher should transfer his DWO from island to island. At the same time, however, the principle of equality is being violated, since a permanent police officer, a permanent porter, a permanent doctor who serves on the same island, in Folegandros, enjoys this possibility of transport equivalent. So I ask you to restore and equate the position of the permanent teacher with the assistant teacher, who has the equivalent of transport without carrying any DUs, as well as with the other categories of civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you will answer all the questions in total. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. The question to the Minister for Maritime Affairs is this: Good, there is also a micro-relief on the basis of implementation of this measure, but also on compensation, that is to say, increased VAT and so on. And, of course, with this amendment, the Ministry, the Minister, proposes to increase, to extend - if you like - the beneficiaries. So far, that's understandable. After reading the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, at the end of the year, the last paragraph refers to the heading already budgeted for 2019, which is EUR 156 million, as referred to in instruments. On the basis, then, of the amendment and of the increase in beneficiaries, the sum that has been allocated with other data, with another number - let me say the term - beneficiaries in the previous period - in 2018 - will it be sufficient to cover the new beneficiaries, which is a number of categories that have been mentioned and we do not need to say them? That is the question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u99	Minister, you have three minutes to answer both colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u100	Yes, I won't need any more time, Mr. President. As far as the reduced VAT rates are concerned, we have said and said so many times again: the equivalent of VAT has not come as a counterbalance for the abolition of reduced VAT rates. After all, the next speaker will say that, in Kos, Lero, Samos, Chios and Lesvos, where the reduced rates of VAT have not been abolished, not only does the transport equivalent apply, but it has also started with pilot implementation. Therefore, do not confuse a consistent request for for forty years of islands with another measure, because there has actually been a problem in the islands as a result of the abolition of reduced VAT rates. It's two different things, clearly. Secondly, you are right to some extent for teachers. I have no problem looking into it, but when someone's permanent somewhere, it doesn't go for three years first on an island, it goes for about ten years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u101	Five is the highest in most grades, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u102	All right, now we're not having a debate on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u103	However, when a person is permanent somewhere, he can very simply transfer his DUI to transfer the seat of the DUI. There is no particular bureaucratic difficulty and automatically becomes eligible. Now, as far as the sum you have said is concerned, I am given the opportunity to say something. Because, as you know, there is a certain number of eligible tickets for each beneficiary, in this number of tickets are also covered by the flight tickets. So there's no increase in ticket eligibility, you just can do it either by plane or by ship. Okay? In terms of the number of beneficiaries of the Security Councils and of the universities, he is too small to influence the overall budget, because most of those serving in the Security Body are already islands, so they are already beneficiaries. We cover certain cases of staff who are not islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u104	At this point I will announce the names of colleagues who will speak. Those who aren't in the Chamber come in. It is Mr. Kamaeros, Mr. Gülekas, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, Mr. Amyras, Mr. Papaliou, Mr. Voridis and Mr. Syrigos. As we have said, the Minister, the parliamentary representatives, and then those of the rapporteurs and speakers who want a second word, will have it and will be closed by the Minister. Here, Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Let me be forgiven by the Minister of State, whose bill we are debating, who will not be left in the bill as much as in the amendment we have just heard, tabled by the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, because for us it is very important. I do not know, perhaps because some people believed and said that this measure will never apply, that it is inappropriate, that they are either trying to degrade it or cancel it. So let me just say two words. Today, with this amendment, the implementation of the transport equivalent is to be extended and improved. He's got six new settings. Let's see them, if not all, some of them as much as I can grow. Do you know what it means to cover the transport equivalent and return to the islander the cost difference it would have had if they were moved to the land, to the mainland, covering it even in a cabin? To speak with numbers: From Kos to Piraeus the ticket is 55 euros. Take note: 20 euros are being returned, that is, it has been quite a large percentage so far, which no one could imagine that it could be achieved. And now what's coming up and done? With the cabin is around 65 euros. EUR 35 will be reimbursed, i.e. over 50%. Not to tell you on speedboats, where there's an even bigger difference. On a journey that one can pay 23 euros, 25 euros, they can return 18 euros to him, 19 euros. I mean, it can reach 60% and 70% the return. And you understand that this varies from island to island because of distance and everything. I ask you: within this crisis, in this fiscal unity, who dared to talk about such reductions and transport costs? Because it's not just in tickets, it's in merchandise. Do you know that in the transport of goods discounts most of the time exceed 50%? Why do we want to hide it? A second arrangement - very important - which comes today is that it also covers flight tickets. Do you know what this means back in the middle? Because you know that ticket prices vary greatly, may be very low from offers and may be too high. For example, from an island it can be the one way away from 50 euros and up to 170 euros. If this EUR 35 is returned to the specific example I told you before, at an average price, EUR 70, 80, do you know what a reduction that is? In other words, in the middle of the day, we can estimate that we have a reduction in airplane tickets on the islands, for islanders more than 30%. Do we realize what we have voted on, what we are implementing and what improvements are made? And not to mention the rest of the security bodies, yes, there are other groups, such as the professors said by Mr Amyras, there are other, civil servants in general, not only the teachers. But you are giving me the opportunity to tell you this: now the transport equivalent has been started and against all those who said it cannot be implemented. I said it before. Even though the six months have passed pilots, it's almost pilot. Anyone who reads the study on the application of the transport equivalent will see in the last chapter proposals on what needs to be done to complete it, really to be a development measure, to apply to all, to the islands. So through this extension we won't have any such problems, including him, including the other one. This can soon be done if the efforts of the Ministry - especially the Secretariat of the Island Policy and the Deputy Minister - go ahead with linking the transport equivalent to an overall redesign of the coastline, for which a study is being carried out, if we relate it to the categorisation of the islands, if we link it to the requirements that the country has to have and to the changes that the country must have in order to achieve in the European Union, in terms of its policies on maritime transport and island policy. Of course - let me quote - we do not expect it to be done with another government, except with the Government of SYRIZA. You understand that. Let me give you the time left to reply on the subject of VAT. The Minister said so, let me repeat it: we want transport equivalent and VAT for our islands. The transport equivalent - and that is why we have given particular weight - is the main measure which comes to respond to the first reason for the isolation of the islands, which is the difficulties in transport. This is the first reason for isolation of the islands. From that point on, other measures are needed: tax, health, education and services. If you don't have any special policies for the islands, you're not going to remove the differences that exist. VAT is therefore one of these measures and will be included in the context of tax measures. However, because I like to say examples of the Minutes, to give you the following: as the Minister said, in the islands where we have a reduced VAT rate at the moment - and it was not 6%, Mr Amyras, 30% is the reduced rate in all categories - on the five islands of migrants, which have reduced VAT rates, we have increased prices in products. What do I mean by that? The benefit from the transport equivalent goes directly to the islander, goes to his account. The application of the reduced VAT rate to date has been distorted and it needs corrections, rationalisation. That's how we need to see it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. With what I told you before, it turns out he doesn't go to the islander, he doesn't go to the consumer. And do you know what the main argument of all business is? That they have increased transport. Now, with the equivalent transport, why do they tell us why they have increased prices, since the transport of goods has de facto been equated? I must end with this, Mr President - we must also see the application of the equivalent to fuel. Who could suspect or dare to say that fuel on the islands can be reduced and almost have the same price as fuel in Attica? However, this is the case with the transport equivalent, which is applied by pilots to the thirty three islands. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to reiterate - because this is the important point - that transport is in progress. It's gonna get better all the time. Today with six improvements, tomorrow, with more and more in the second four years of SYRIZA with much more, so that we can get to the point where the islanders' opportunities are the same as our other compatriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Giulekas, Member of the Greek Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I have previously seen the government headquarters. They have taken the floor to support two governmental amendments, Mr Paulakis and Mr Santorini. I heard the issues they raised. No relation to this bill. No matter what. Of course I wonder: Such political hypocrisy? Mr Minister, in the explanatory statement to the draft legislation you have tabled, it is stated that we must at last eliminate this evil which has been the case with the amendments and the mislegislation. You, in the same bill that is being discussed precisely to fight this pathogen, you come with your colleagues in the government and you support unnecessarily these amendments. What's that called, ladies and gentlemen? Political hypocrisy. What is that called, when you suddenly said - and indeed the President of Parliament - that the legislative acts are juntas with parliamentary cloaks and have taken over the previous governments in the first few years, let me say politically you have left nothing that you have not done with political acts? And then you have replaced it with amendments and you have brought the amendments to a firm stand in all the bills, while you said that all the diseases of the old political system you come to correct. Minister, you cannot disagree. Indeed, what you say in the explanatory statement on pluralism, on ambiguity, does exist. There is a need for codification in Greek legislation. Don't be fooled in here. That is why I spoke about political hypocrisy. You had all said that 'absolute' at the beginning. Mr Tsipras here turned the Step back and said to us: 'You know, we had deceitful'. We call it something else: political deception. It was a political fraud. For what you have said, you have done exactly the opposite. Let me remind you so very quickly: you would tear the memorials. Two or two of you were voting for them. You would have done away with HISPIA. You raised him. You would have restored the pensions. You ruined them. You were going to raise the basic salary to 751 euros. You took him to 350 euros. The “generation of 350 euros”, the proud generation of SYRIZA, ANEL and Alexis Tsipras! And now you are suddenly coming back to legislate and says in the explanatory statement - listen - that polynomialism, overlapping, ambiguities, etc. They heavyly cast their shadows on legal certainty. Sure. But what do we do now? You are re-establishing a codification committee, because it is necessary. Of course I do. But there was? There was. When did he get together? In 2003. In fact, by law in 2004, she was assigned powers to nineteen sectors, and then by law in 2012, the Committee on Codification and Law Reform was set up. By law of 2013, we returned to the CEC. So you are now coming to set up a codification committee, which existed. But note, ladies and gentlemen, the present government, which is four and a half years old, has not made a single codification. The Encoding of 2015 had made it on issues that had been decided earlier. She found her ready, i.e., and she just voted for her. All the codings that have been done have been done before this government. And the government is coming today and sees the need - of course, at the end of its political life - to say that we need to set up a codification committee. And not just that. The terrible thing is that you have now taken care, on your departure, to appoint the members of this committee since September in order to get the next government ready. If that's possible! If these are not called political hypocrisy, then what is really called political hypocrisy? And the worst part of all is that you yourself had redeemed. Mr.4336/2015, what did he predict? The creation of a long-term codification plan for the main legislations. It's your law. It didn't apply. Then came another law, n.4396/2016. What did he predict? Draw up a draft national strategy for the internal cohesion of law. That's not it either. Finally, the Central Coding Committee was reconstructed in 2018 by a decision of the Prime Minister as of July 2018. And you come now and say that it is urgent to redesign this Central Coding Committee. You obviously want to be acknowledged that you are doing this because of political consistency. That's why I talked about political deception. Also, in the second chapter of the bill, that is where you can figure out exactly what you are thinking and what you are trying to do. You are blatantly violating the rights of a committee set up to ensure human rights. You come and you change the composition of the committee without having that right. In fact, the President himself resigns from protesting about this raw intervention and even says that this is contrary to the Paris authorities, according to which this National Committee for Human Rights was founded in 1998. Of course, don't rush to say that the Qualified Opposition is conspiring against you again. It is not the chairman or the vice-chairman of the committee who is attending the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received the resignation letter from the chairman of the committee. It has a date 4-4-2019. It made me a terrible impression. Hear what he says: "Your government, in wanting to alter the composition of the committee, but also to make it very dysfunctional to fully inertia, goes unilaterally on to an inappropriate and inextricable addition of five members." And after that, what does it say? 'Legislation proceeded without public consultation, without the Government ever informing the committee in particular.' [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in thirty seconds. And, of course, listen to how the chairman of the committee concludes: "The arrogance of executive power", the SYRIZA Government, namely, "the authoritarianism in decision-making and implementation and an insulting teaching has left behind. My resignation is now a dignified reaction, and so on. etc. And as if that wasn't enough, it came to us and a glimpse from abroad. The President of the European network of National Institutions of Human Rights is addressed to the Prime Minister of the country, Alexis Tsipras, and says: "An issue raised to us by the Greek National Commission... I understand that the Minister of State is talking about you, Mr. - "... introduced a new law to the House on 26 March which amends..." - and so on - "We are concerned, however, that the procedure followed is not compatible with the principles of Paris of the United Nations." So, what are you doing? You are violating these principles, you have created a rally, the chairman of the committee resigns and a letter comes from abroad, which really shows how we legislate in Greece. If that is what you call social sensitivity, let us not take it. For these reasons, Minister, we of course have to vote against this bill. We fully agree, I repeat, at the beginning that codification is needed. But I'm afraid what you're doing will need a law to codify their own coding laws. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u108	We shall now proceed with my colleague Mrs Christophilopoulou, then with Mr Amyras, Mr Papaliou and Mr Syrigos. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today I fear that it 'collects Glaukas in Athens'. In other words, this is a bill which most of the provisions had already been legislated, and as our rapporteur, Mr Carras, said, could not be discussed at the moment. I would like for a moment, before going through the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment which I would like to speak about, to address the issue of the National Committee on Human Rights, because, Minister, the mechanisms for protecting human rights are primarily aimed at safeguarding societies against state power. Under the primary version of the status negativus, individual rights include an area of freedom to the State and especially to the executive. Any attempt, therefore, to limit the institutionalised mechanisms for protecting these rights is obviously inconceivable in the spirit of the relevant constitutional provisions and certainly undermines the protection provided. Minister, today's resignation of the President of the National Commission is a resignation of a trick, and we really call on you to withdraw this arrangement. You will now allow me to pass on to the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment, which is the main purpose of my speech and which we shall vote on. This amendment extends the deadline for submission - yet another extension - of objections to areas where forest maps have been placed. In the explanatory memorandum to the amendment, however, there is a reference which is falsified, referring to Eye and Kineta, areas affected by the fire of 23 July, with the words that the provision is allegedly being promoted to facilitate firefighting. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to the same point, which has to be solved and which does not solve the amendment - to be extended, but does not solve something - you will allow me to say the following: on the issue of the demolition of those buildings which are red and which have to be demolished, I would like to say that while it has started at a certain rate - and away from me at the moment every micro-group of purposes and you will see it because it is suddenly stopping. The same happened with the collection of asbestos that, if it were here, the Minister for the Environment would tell everyone how large a bomb environmentally it is for people's health. So did the collection of asbestos stop, and "but without them, not even the generation of the dominions"? Oh, no! Not just because the state would have to prioritise - and the state at first gave some money - but because there is the bank account for the firemen. And a few months ago, a few months ago, Mr. Voutsis, on the occasion of our own question, asked by the Change Movement, on the question of the use of these resources, and the President of Parliament himself referred to the use of these funds for demolitions and for the collection of asbestos. But I am going to go to the next topic which is just as important, zeon and burning. The special spatial plan is ignored in the midwifes of the co-responsible ministries. It is a ghost, it was announced, and it is promptly delaying and removing any hope of rational urbanization. And when Parliament's control is unequivocal, that is, what service has initiated the drafting process, when the timetable is expected to be completed, if consultation has been made - because we know from the residents' committees that there has been no consultation so far, there is no answer to it! And I now come to the amendment on repair permits. It's a pressing problem. Minister, the dead cannot be brought back, but we must help people, institutions and businesses who have lost their assets and who have remained at the place to regain their string of life and activity. And we, as a movement of change, in this spirit, also make the present and the questions that we have made and my position and we will continue. In the case of repair permits, therefore, which are sometimes small and can quickly enter the home with a small repair - the issue is delaying those who have a problem with the forest office. And precisely because the amendment merely extends and does not solve the problem institutionally and radically, I would like to inform the Greek Parliament that the Change Movement and through its President, Mrs Gennamas, has proposed institutional solutions for consultation with all the parties in the constitutional arch of Parliament and of course with the Government. I have had the opportunity in committee, Minister, to discuss this with Mr Famello for a while. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I just want more than just a minute from the person to explain. And because the Minister of State also has a coordinating role, but he is also a legal person as far as I know, I will quickly say that there are three alternatives which, with our legal services and with the cooperation here, could be strengthened, which would solve the problem. And I come to the first, and she's probably more radical. It has been applied in other countries, it is the return to the status quo ante. Here, because we have force majeure, obviously, and because some urban and spatial legislation may be violated, it is therefore justified to recognise the possibility of restoring the situation on terms and conditions - we say it in the media - I do not want to waste time - but also to retain all legitimate rights of the public. The second solution, in which we could go, is as follows. We have urbanly settled so-called legalised properties. In these cases we could say that there is no need for office paper for those citizens who have settled their property either by the 2013 Act or by the recent Act that you voted in 2017. And the third solution is a legal plasma solution, it has also been applied in cases of force majeure, strict plasma energy conditions, a certificate, if the deadline laid down by the law is exceeded. I am referring to these three, and I conclude, Minister, to say that it is not enough to vote on this amendment, which gives a slight extension of the objections to forest maps. We need to bend on the problem fast now. I say again that we and the government and all the parties are at the disposal of us to discuss radical solutions so that people can get into their homes as quickly as possible and to bring life back to those regions that have been affected and so hurt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u110	We're moving on with Mr. Georgios Amyras. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a first comment on the transport equivalent and its extension. Clearly, it is a positive measure, but we have to think that island Greece is facing enormous transport difficulties, especially in winter, and when there is a problem with transport, there will also be health, there will also be development, there will also be services. All I have to say is that last weekend I went to Folegandros. From Piraeus to Folegandros, then, the ship did twelve hours - nor a cruise! - and another twelve to go back, a total of twenty-four hours. The islanders are also constantly facing this during their winter life particularly intensely. So the islands do well to remember them in winter, not just in summers. I now come to the issue of the amendment, which I have tabled, and I would like to say that, on the way to the European elections of 26 May, it is important to consider how European we want Greece. Do we want a European participation of our country à la carte? Of course not. No way. Therefore, today's amendment, with a general number of 2070 and a special 6, is a small European mark for our country's progress within Europe. Austria, France, Belgium, Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, Germany, before us, have regulated a question of family law, namely the conspiracy of children by their parents, when parents have been divorced. Here in Greece, unfortunately, we are too far back. So the amendment I have tabled has the following characteristics. Its content is as follows. Firstly, parents will be absolutely and equally responsible for raising their child and after divorce and will have the same rights to the child. That's self-evident. Also, no parent - especially the father - will alienate from his child. I'll explain why I mention the father next. The child will have an early-determined residence requiring notice and consent of the other parent or court decision. Equally distribution of the child's time with his parents. I think that's one of the most basics. The child's psychosomatic health is the important one. Simulate children in and out of marriage after their judicial or voluntary recognition. And finally, the most important thing, the child's interest is to grow with the model of both his parents. So the legislative proposal that I tabled is the euphoria, happiness and psychosomatic health of the child. The self-evident need to grow in a healthy environment, having both parents at his side, is a decisive factor in building a healthy and comprehensive personality. So far, the government with the Legislative Committee, which since February 2018 has been constantly extending and we still haven't seen its results, I think it sends the ball to the platform. In the consultation of the draft of the new Criminal Code, we see that the Government abolishes or proposes the abolition of the second paragraph of Article 358 on the violation of the child's obligation to communicate in the context of consent. Why would that happen? The violation of the agreement, which is even clothed with the type of notarial document, why should it no longer be punished when it is violated? The second, and even more so, is the second paragraph of Article 105 on the home-made creation of the sentence. What's he saying there? That the beneficial provisions of the law apply only to mothers who have the custody of children under the age of eight. What about fathers who, even in a small percentage, have custody? Why are we forgetting them? The principle of equality and equal treatment of men and women must have a dominant position in family law. In 2015, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted Resolution 2079 whereby the Member States of the European Union are invited, inter alia, to remove from their legislation any difference between parents who have recognised their child and to ensure that each parent has the right to be informed and actively involved in raising up his child. However, it is equally important to secure the home where the child is staying. It has been observed in many cases that mothers basically have diligently changed city or even country, completely alienating the other parent from his child. For this reason, the child's residence must be fully guaranteed and determined in advance and possibly altered by the explicit consent of the other parent or by a judicial decision. Finally, it should be ensured and that the time of the child with each of his parents should be equivalent and we should leave that forced and mandatory as a Maximum, that one of the two parents can spend only one weekend in the month or Christmas or a few days in Easter with his children. Both parents should be actively involved in the daily life of their child. I hope the government accepts this amendment. It's the second time in two years I'm filing it. The first time, in fact, I had tabled it with Mr Loverdos and Mr Katsantonis, from the Centroon Union at that time. In any case, we have mentioned the issue several times. The Justice Ministers - and Mr Kalogerou and the before him, Mr. Kontonis and Mr. Paraskevi - had said that they would accept the thinking and that it is time to take a step ahead of family law. Children cannot be alienated from their parents and divorce to be a toxic bomb within the foundations of any family, first victims of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u113	We'll give the Minister the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u114	I want to talk about the subject of the previous placement. I will then place myself on the whole debate that has taken place. I would like to say this. The Ministry of Justice informed me that the Legislative Committee on Family Law has completed its work. Within a few days, she will transmit the results of her work to the Minister of Justice. It is precisely in these amendments that he proposes for family law that he also resolves the issues of custody, which are extremely important. However, I think we would be unfair if there had not been an extended debate without a consultation and given the fact that the Legislative Committee would propose solutions for a problem, which we all recognise and all think is extremely important, this amendment was accepted today. I believe that we will have the possibility, in very short time, of discussing all the amendments, which need to be made to family law, which is obviously also about the issues of custody that you have raised today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u116	Don't open a word. You'll be placed when you start talking. We'll have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u117	The Minister, nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u118	Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u119	It's a lot. Minister, I'm happy for what you're saying. However, I've heard it from the season of Friday around four times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u120	You've asked a topical question. I remember being presiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u121	I remember. And I remember that you welcomed it, Mr. Kaklamani. Listen. Of course, Mr. Kontonis did not agree. Now you're saying it's over...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u122	On 31 March I told you that the consultation was completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u123	This means that it will enter the consultation and that, from what you said, I understand - I do not know, Mr Amyras - that it is the regulation or such a regulation. Because this is a code, according to Article 76(6) of the Constitution, it comes here and we take it as it is or we vote against it, I would ask you to commit yourself to a debate. Don't come here to the House and then we can't intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u124	Okay, but now the Minister cannot commit himself to another minister. But it can pass on the request, which we have all heard and you are right. But committing himself is not possible. We are moving on with the last two colleagues, Mr. Papaliou and Mr. Syragos. Then the Minister will take the floor and we will continue in turn, unless Mr Lappas wants to close the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u125	I shall speak last, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is about an object which I would say is central to the country's own progress: the codification of existing legislation. In this context, the organisation, operation and responsibilities of the Central Coding Committee, which need to be adapted to the new data, data, formatted data, or to those which are under way - international and European sources of legislation, new technologies, etc. It is commonplace that codification, concentration by field of living relations under existing legislation, is necessary in order to address, in particular, the difficulty of finding the applicable provisions, where appropriate. The difficulty is linked to the insecurity of law by the existence of a variety of laws and regulations, spread over unrelated legislation on the same subject matter, lawlessness and opacity in the movements and actions of the administration, as well as the creation of a deterrent environment for economic activities and attracting investment. In addition, codification is appropriate, in order to remove the lack of confidence among the citizens in the action of the administration, the inability of the administration and of the citizens to identify existing legislation and regulations, the lack of coordination and long-term consumption in the completion of the administration's action, as well as the burden - time and economic - of economic activity, due to bureaucracy and the delay in the administration of justice. These pathogens are due to pluralism, the existence, for the same subject matter, of many regulations, often resulting from different sources of regulation production and found in legislation with completely irrelevant and different main regulated content. Also, it's because of the evil. Maligration in the Greek legal order is mainly manifested by the existence of regulations in vague and legal deficient terms, whether fragmentary or contradictory, as well as by the introduction of new provisions on a specific subject, without explicit or dubious abolition of earlier existing provisions, with repeated and overlapping with previous regulations, but also with the repeated frequent and radical changes in arrangements, even before the earlier arrangements are implemented. Even with the adoption of regulations of other legal orders, which do not either fit ours or are not assimilated by it. All of this creates uncertainty as to the applicable law. The concentration of existing legislation, the simplification and its inclusion in single or single texts, is therefore intended to achieve greater clarity in the content of the regulations, easier access of the business and legal world and of citizens to the legislation in force, better find the institution responsible for action and the rule of law applicable, and thus reduce the time of action of the administration. Furthermore, they aim to increase transparency, democratic legitimacy, legal certainty and the sense of trust of citizens towards the State, to avoid the introduction of new rules of law on the subject, which have already been regulated by other rules of law, which are dispersed in various inconsistent legislations, to clarify the law in force, which will be achieved by highlighting the existence of conflicts between regulations on the same subject or provisions, which have been explicitly abolished or for which it is undeniably interpreted as having been abolished implicitly, but also to restore, in this context, the internal cohesion of the law. They also aim to update legislation and bring the regulatory field into line with new data in the technological and economic field, to create a safer framework for facilitating and approximating economic and development activities, and finally to speed up the administration of justice. Of course, all of this can be achieved with the support of electronic media, the creation of an electronic portal and an information bank, so that there can be access by all stakeholders to current law. This ensures that the public interest is served, that the economic indicators are increased and that the competitiveness of the economy is improved, since they are directly dependent on the quality of the legislative material, as is manifested primarily by the legislator and are implemented secondaryly through regulatory rationalisation. On the basis of all the above, therefore, the care to respect good legislation, which is the main instrument of which is codification, and in this context, reform and - I would say - the restructuring of law - since we must be careful in formulating, using terms, because the term reform is likely to create problems of interpretation - must be aimed at every favoured state. It is not an end in itself and a question of legal aesthetics, but a prerequisite for the effectiveness of public policies and the building of relations of confidence between public authorities, civil society and economic players, that is, those who are active in economic activity. All this, ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that they will be judged in practice. However, there is a need for a comprehensive legal framework for this subject, namely the codification of legislation, which is not a condition for the economic development of the country and, ultimately, the country's progress towards the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theories twenty-four students and two attendants from the International Centre for Greek and Mediterranean Studies. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We close our colleagues' speeches with the last speaker, Mr Antony Syrigo. Then the Minister will take the floor. Mr. Syragos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. I will say a few words about the bill, and I will finally be wandering into the Ministry of Shipping's amendment to the transport equivalent. I shall begin by trying to describe the context of the discussion of the draft law, which we are discussing today. We have, first of all, the constitutional provisions of Article 76(6) and (7) which speak of codification. These must be combined with the paragraphs of Articles 2 and 1 and 25(1) (a) and finally with international and Union conventions. This is the supreme institutional framework, the over-legislative one on which we rely. This always concerns not only the way, but also the objective of the codifications, which can be said to be a matter of legal certainty, of information and knowledge, and of the legitimate expectations of the citizen in the state and, finally, the principle of good legislature. That is why I am surprised that on these issues, to which this bill aims, there is a strong reaction, because there are clearly objections. That is why we are discussing it, and that is why we have also discussed it in committee. So the issue is a specific one. Furthermore, there is already a sufficient legal route for this matter, starting from 1959. I remember Law 3133/2003 and then Law 4048/2012, which also has the title: ‘Regulatory Governance’. Let us look at the 'Government', something that the current legislature has taken into account in its proposal. "Government" is more than just management. It's giving directions. That is where the codification, which the CEC should carry out, is also aimed at. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention - and so for the lawyers - the great usefulness of the Raptarch and in other cases. You know, the issue of codification is an issue that has always been of concern to us lawyers, but in the end, there was no happy ending on these issues. So I hope that this time there will be this happy ending and a little stone will come in on what the rest of us have put together. I would therefore like to say here about the history, if you like, which I believe will help and be useful. The term ‘condix’ is the first one found in the ‘Youth’ in the ‘Novellae’ of Justinian, with the definition ‘In the assembly of the laws in our last name code’. So, then, we're talking about a meeting of the laws, which is aimed at something, to know everyone who's stepping on, on which basis, what the law is. I have to add to this that time endurance and ease of search are the qualifications of success of a code, at least in my own assessment. So that is what we need to see, when these codifications are taken up, whether they relate to codifications of administrative and regulatory acts or to codifications of legislation brought by the Ministry of Justice. I come to point out one of the merits of the bill we are debating, which is that of the bodies who attended the hearing, several - most - had a positive opinion on the bill. I should also like to say that this hearing was extremely enlightening, after having pointed this out - and you have raised the objections, followed by a number of arguments on each side and on each side - so that there is a document and that Parliament can finally appreciate the issues which have arisen. So it was a fruitful hearing. The debate, among other things, has turned into two issues, and I particularly want to make it clear to close. One was the reform. What's reform? Fears have been expressed that substitution may be attempted indirectly by the legislator. I refer here to the fact that there is a definition of the word'reform' in Law 4048/2012, as well as in the articles of this law, that is to say, Article 11 which tells us exactly what reform is and Article 12 which tells us exactly what codification is. Finally, another point, which has drawn the attention of the legislators of the bill, is the article of delegation to the Secretary of Government. I do not think there is any concern either about extended authorisation or not. In addition, Article 5 of the previous law also referred to the authorisation to the Secretary of Government for this point. So these are the two issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I do not want to abuse time any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u130	Like everyone, we'll show you a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much. I only have to say that it is also typologically in the form of reform. It has nothing to do with the substance, to hide anything else, an intervention or anything. But they are, as we have said, reassured by Law 4048/2012. I would also like to say that, as far as the need for the bill was concerned, I refer to the reference made in the evaluation report, which in particular describes the need in the first paragraph. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with the amendment of the Ministry of Shipping. I think that there is no need for any arguments for her, because all the wings, from what I have seen, are in agreement with her. It is very right to extend it, and in the way that it is done, namely the transport equivalent, to air transport. I would just like to add that it is not an individual energy or an amendment, which came as lightning in hunger. It is a step forward in the preparation of an island policy which has gradually started to systemify. This is a step in this direction. They have also been done in other areas, as far as health is concerned, for example, as well as in other areas. Thank you very much for the tolerance you have shown me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u132	The President-in-Office now has the floor. The rapporteurs will also take a second word, so what they want can say can even support their amendments. Here, Minister, I'm putting you a little more time to respond to what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u133	I will try, Mr President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, a great deal has been said. We could, in my view, have done a detailed, in-depth and debate-sharing debate on this bill, which concerns the reconstruction, if you like, of the Central Codification Committee. Instead, I think that, once again, one acidification has been chosen, one of which is the lack of any political ballot. For example, we have heard even that the current government is supposedly ruling by legislative acts. I should like to inform the Civic Opposition that, from 31 December 2015 and until the summer of 2018, no single act of legislation had been adopted, while, in the summer of 2018, the two acts of legislation that were adopted, if I am not mistaken, concerned exclusively positive measures. In other words, there were measures which, firstly, had to do with dealing with natural disasters, which is why the legislative acts exist. That is their logic, that is to say to be issued, precisely so that procedures can be carried out very quickly, because of force majeure. Secondly, the other legislative act extended VAT to the islands affected by the refugee crisis. We did not make any legislative act in order to transfer, for example, within one night, public property in the HSE, as you did. We did not take legislative action to implement the provisions imposed on us by the lenders, as you did for four consecutive years during the first and second months. We were not going through laws with an article and five hundred paragraphs, as you did, because you were afraid that your MPs would not vote in favour of a hypothesis of the memorandum, which you had undertaken to implement. I therefore think that these things should be brought into their right place each time, to know where we can criticise - we accept the criticism, we want the criticism - and to what extent is silence preferable sometimes, so as not to be exposed. Now, of course, in this unreserved criticism, which was made to the government, could not who else be missing? Mr. Petsis. It is not that I didn't expect it because it sets out the reason why, from the point of view of the Officerial Vice-President, they are being reproduced, perhaps even orchestrated, the make news, which is presented daily in news releases, in clerical opposition websites, on websites which, if you like, also play a leading role in anti-SYRIZA front that tries to create the old political regime, to turn the country back to the memorials, in deficits, in wage smashing. You have reached the point of saying that it was the Greek Government - as I said about wages - which led to the labour market at the wages of EUR 350. You forget that about a month ago, the minimum wage was raised by 11%, 650 euros, the underpaid wage was abolished, which you had adopted by your vote and by your participation in the Government of Papademos and from which a subordinated salary came exactly the wages of 300 and 350 euros for part-time work. These shatters of the labour market, which you have created, are trying to work together with huge effort, hard work, work that you have never done, because others were the reasons why you were operating and with different priorities as a government. But, in order to return to the previous one, do you know why you have brought a matter that has not been raised for the Greek Government on the agenda today, on the agenda of your political positions? Because you want to create a political diversion in relation to a political development last week. So let me remind you that some criminal prosecutions have been persecuted, which has taken my eye.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u134	Purchasing orders.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u135	There were orders of persecution, that's what took my eye out of it. Looks like you know it pretty well, it's all about you anyway. They are criminal prosecutions - you know - of the 200 million loan and fiercely, which you took as a New Democracy. In fact, for these 200 million loan and unscrupulously, Mrs Zacharaki has come out today and said that the New Democracy is managing its finances wisely and that is exactly how it intends to manage public finances. As New Democracy managed its own finances, in short, took the spoon, took 200 million which it has kept and has not repaid - and it seems that neither will there be any mood in the near future to pay them back - in the same way, therefore, you tell us today, with a great deal of courage, that you will also manage public finances. Not that you didn't do it in the past. How much and how much have they not seen publicity about how the old political system managed Greek budgets, Greek taxpayers' money! Some time ago, it came on the initiative of the government to light and a story where in 2006-2010 - I do not know if you remember -240 million you did not give, you did not make the ministerial decisions to be paid by the pharmaceutical companies. And I wonder: is this small sum of 240 million, which did not get the eye of the ministers at the time of the New Democracy government that this money should somehow be repaid to the public, given to the public? So, in your criticisms, I must say again, you must maintain a lower intensity, given that you have as a New Democracy, but also as a whole political system and a political regime. Now, I come to the bill and the basic arguments, which have been heard by the New Democracy for the Central Committee on Codification, that we have allegedly done nothing to codify, that there were eight codifications, as the rapporteur of the Committee on Civil Liberties has said, which did not go ahead during our own government, that there was no intention of moving forward, in any case, on these initiatives and that the legislative procedure was not in place. Let me inform you, then, of the eight codes that did not go ahead: Firstly, 'Consumer protection legislation'. It was completed in 2010. Due to significant legislative intervention and because no compensation was paid in 2010, that code did not go ahead. Second, draft ‘Public Maritime Law Code’. It was completed in 2008. SYRIZA was probably ruling in 2008. The draft law had been sent to the Ministers by the Secretary-General of the Government, but was never promoted in the House. Thirdly, 'Code of Procedural Provisions for the Court of Auditors'. Delivery in 2010, it was never promoted in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u136	You've been four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u137	It's been too many years since. We need a new drafting of these legislation. You should know that. That's what's bothering you. You are tempted because you have gone to load - but not that you are not doing it, you are constantly doing it - you are trying to load your own inadequacies, your responsibilities, your own absolute weakness, in today's government. And when we prove to you that you have the responsibility for the situation in which the Greek economy, the Greek society, the Greek state, has been involved, you are beginning to react. I'm going to continue the list. Fourthly, ‘Code of Legislation on the Naval Abstract Fund’. It was completed in 2011. He's never been promoted. Fifth, "Design Code of Labour legislation". The encoding has never been completed. Sixthly, 'Code of Regulations on Health and Safety at Work'. The encoding has never been completed. Seventh, 'Code for the National Health System'. The encoding has never been completed, why? Because the PASOK government at the time and the New Democracy later did not pay compensation to civil servants, which they went to charge again to us. In other words, things I am telling you again that we should be a little more careful when criticising, because we are being exposed. Eighth, ‘Code of Law for Primary and Secondary Education’. It was completed in July 2013. He was never submitted to the Ministry. At that time, he was not a Syrian in the Ministry, then he was a neo-democrat in the Ministry of Education. What else did you tell us? You told us that we don't need the law, that we're trying to stop the work, he says, of the next government with the Central Coding Committee. In other words, in addition to the fact that you have made a success of the election result, it will still be a little heavy for you, but all right, you will have time to process it in the next four years, which you will still be at the headquarters of the Officerial Reconciliation - I hope, I do not know, perhaps there will be another party that will replace you, not at this moment - you have told us that the government is supposedly responsible for the fact that the Central Committee for Coding was not working and we are also trying, he says, to prevent the work of the next government. So, let me tell you now, where this legislative initiative has come from and who are responsible for this "conspiracy" towards the New Democracy, which is supposed to be the next government of the country: It is a Vice-President of the State Courts and a Professor of the Law School of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, a professor of the Law School of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, a Advisor to the State, two Prefectures of the Court of Auditors, a Parker of the Council of State, two Arrives of Administrative Courts, a Prayer of the Legal Council of the State, a Professor of Political Science and Public Administration of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, a Deputy Professor of the Law School of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and two lawyers. This is the group, which is working on this conspiracy project to prevent the functioning of the next government, namely the Central Coding Committee, which did what? It came and tabled a proposal to the Greek Government that, in order to facilitate its work, we must rationalise and modernise legislation on the functioning of the Central Coding Committee. That is why, on the basis of the procedures and proposals of this same Central Coding Committee, we have proceeded with tabling the current draft law. This is why you have discovered a huge conspiracy which the current government has devised to deal with, supposedly, your future wishes. We had no such attitude, and I hoped you'd understand it by now. Because here there are two pounds: Or you have not understood at all what this bill says and what it is either you understand, but you choose the exacerbation, you choose the tension, to create just impressions, as you have been doing for about four years. In other words, instead of having a difficult technical and serious dialogue, a debate that is structured and mild, you have reelected complaints, voices and confrontation in a field that is not offered for confrontation. We are talking about the Central Committee on Coding, on a technical - legal issue, but also about an issue, which I think is also a question of democracy. And to pass now in the bill in this respect, we do not see this bill cut off from the overall strategy of the Government to deal with pluralism and evil, but within the framework of an attempted rationalisation of the entire Greek legal order. It is a strategy for which I thought there would be political conditions to get parties' consent. It seems that's not the case. But I think it should be that way, because anyone who has little contact with the functioning of the public administration, and also the legislative process, should agree that the Greek state has been suffering, and does not suffer in the last four years, but has been suffering since its establishment. And there are potential for improvement. However, in order to talk seriously about these possibilities of improvement, we must highlight precisely the causes of pluralism and evil, which are many different and are not always related to governments' wills. Firstly, the legislative function of the public administration, which leads to the overproduction of legislation, which is usually related to the refusal of the administration to exercise its discretion, with the refusal of the administration to implement its specific responsibilities, unless there is a clear provision of law, which will define exactly the way in which it has to function. That is why there is also the rain of the amendments, not at this time, but throughout the entire operation of the Greek state. So this is not just a question of political will. We are dealing with an issue, which relates to the structure of the Greek state itself, with the attitudes that have prevailed within the Greek public administration. This is, of course, a historical pathogen, which is not dealt with from one day to the next, nor does the Central Coding Committee come to deal with this pathogen. This pathogenicity is only addressed with a long-term strategic plan for public administration reform. But a second reason - and here the political debate begins now - is that we should maintain, and we want to do so - a legal ambiguity regime. Because, in fact, this is a technology of power, which the old political system and the top of the administration wanted to maintain, because this was also a precondition for the reproduction of state bureaucracy and also of political corruption. Here we can, with the legislation that we are proposing today and with the reconstruction of the Central Coding Committee, intervene and intervene effectively. This is what we are trying to do with the national strategy, which we have drawn up and which, in our opinion, serves a programme of transparency, a project of democracy, a programme of modernisation now in Greek legislation and administration. I think that within this framework we should also see today's bill. Let me analyse some specific points on which there has been a reasonable debate, especially with regard to the question of the reform of the law. There have been some reservations or some points that perhaps the notion of reforming law, which is a tool of good legislation, could lead, if you like, to an omission of Parliament and the abolition of laws or regulations, without following the parliamentary procedure. This concern has no basis. Let me tell you this: The bill does not, first of all, give a definition of the reform of the law. It shall refer to Articles 11 and 12 of Law 4048/2012. The CEC is given a reorganisation power as an ancillary competence in the context of codification. In other words, it does not give a self-evident importance to reform as a means of good legislature, but only to the extent that the CVC is faced with a problem of conflict or contradictory provisions which it encodes. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need a little more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u138	I've given you all along. I'll give you part of the time of your dentistry, plus five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u139	Sure. The Central Committee for Coding does not have decisive powers nor produce new rules of law, but it codifies, but it respects the rules of good legislation. Here too there are three forms of codification, which I will try very briefly to analyse. The first case concerns codes which contain provisions of formal law and which, if they are repealed, of course have to pass through Parliament, so there is no question of reform. The second case concerns codes which contain regulatory decrees and ministerial decisions. Nor is there any question there, because they should be published as presidential decrees on a proposal from the Minister, who, anyway, has the power to amend ministerial decisions or to propose to amend presidential decrees. So neither is there a conflict here. The third form of codification contains uniform provisions of formal laws and regulations and decisions adopted by a Presidential Decree. This is the point where one might say that the reform, namely the abolition of a provision of a law made by a President-in-Office, might give rise to some kind of doubt as to the respect of the parliamentary procedure. In other words, when a presidential decree abolishes a provision of formal law in the context of reform, there is likely to be an anti-discrimination clause. There is no, however, because in any case there is a special mandate from the House, which gives the Central Committee on Codification the power to proceed to such soft interventions. This is precisely the case, for example, in the a.m. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So we have an authorisation of the House to the Central Coding Committee to abolish provisions by a Presidential Decree, but that power of the Central Coding Committee is already from Parliament. I therefore think we can even have the opportunity at this time to have a serious debate in the second cycle and to understand that this is not about political experimentation similar to those that took place in 2012, for example, where a Committee on Law Reform was set up, which was abolished after a year by the Government of PASOK - New Democracy, and this was precisely the move that led to the inactivation of the Central Codification Committee, which was re-established after the abolition of the Law Reform Committee. I also think that criticism is completely unjust and improper on this point, in the sense that institutional experiments, political experiments, political tricks and political games are not carried out by the current government, but have been made by the previous government with this type of misguided and inadequate intervention. I am going to go to the second point, to the enlargement of the National Committee on Human Rights, which is proposed in Chapter II. I think that the reason why this enlargement is being proposed is in a certain way of viewing rights. The rights cannot be overridden by the real society. The rights cannot be overridden by those social groups which are subject to discrimination. So what is being attempted by this regulation is at last those social groups that are experiencing social exclusion, which are experiencing discrimination and which are on a daily basis in the field of claiming democratic rights and individual freedoms to have the right to express themselves within the National Committee on Human Rights. I could speak too much time for a series of objections. However, I would just like to say this: I have said a few things about the Paris authorities. I think the information that ENNHRI has is one-sided. This will be corrected within the next few hours, after choosing from the former President of the National Commission to internationalise the matter. Of course, the issue must be internationalised, so that the relevant European bodies can also be informed of the way in which this leadership has operated and of the way in which it has, in any case, managed the Bureau of the National Commission for Human Rights. I would like to tell you this in relation to independence: I insist that we are literally following the principles of Paris. And there was consultation. And there was an update. The point was that the National Committee on Human Rights decided by its President to abstain from this type of consultation and that the extension of the committee - and this, of course, is seen in the letter sent to me on 6 December - that the committee itself should supplement its members, and that is not the case with the Paris authorities, and much more so with the founding law of the National Commission for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u140	With this in mind, please, Minister. I can't show you any more tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u141	So when I asked whether the government at any time intervened in the work of the committee, the answer was immediately negative. Then there was a comment: The Government - supposedly - completely indifferent to the functioning of the National Commission for Human Rights these years. Of course, when Mr Baltakos threatened to abolish the National Committee on Human Rights and when the New Democracy, in the previous phase of governance, in the period 2012-2015, stacked it together with the Bioethics Committee, did not have the same sensitivity to defend it. Now the sensitivity of the New Democracy has emerged. So I'll tell you what today's done...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u142	I don't have any more time, Minister. You have to hang up. The rest of you will tell your dentistry. We are all equal in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u143	Of course, Mr President. Excuse me. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u144	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 5 April 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, Member of Parliament, on the subject of 'Readaptation fees for large hydroelectric power stations', under number 469/2-24-2019. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Charalambos Athanasiou, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Haralambos Athanasiou, Minister for Migration Policy, on "Inhumane and degrading, for Lesvos and Greece, the current situation in the Centre for Reception in Moria". 3. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Maniotis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To settle directly the debts of the Local Improvement Institutions (TEIB) Ionian-Asine-Drepanos." 4. The Question No 458/1-4-2019, by MEP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Transfer of claims from credit or financial institutions to debt management companies - companies obtaining loans and credit claims". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 468/2-24-2019 by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition, Antonio Balomenakis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of the need to regulate franchising. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 463/1-4-2019 by MP Thesprotia of New Democracy, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: ‘Expansion of co-financing of Social Shops and Pharmacies from the 2014-2020 Regional Operational Programmes’. 3. The Question No 467/2-24-2019 by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Infringements following the current environmental legislation and the approved environmental conditions of the Common Ministerial Decision approving Environmental Terms (CHS) by the company "Greek Gold". 4. The question under number 441/26-3-2019 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Protection of citizens and borrowers from the abuse of legal offices as tax collectors". 5. The question asked by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios DRC to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "A call for a post by Professor of Shiro-Belissomy at Democritus University of Thrace". 6. The Question No 450/26-32019 by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Let us stop the installation of wind parks in the mountainous peaks of the Agraphs". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 438/22-32019 was raised by Mr.Piraeus of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Changes in PPC tariffs'. 8. Under No 279/15-1-2019, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the Transport Equivalent". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 5080/28-1-2019 of the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning "the adoption of the necessary Ministerial Decisions to fill in the organic positions of priests". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the speeches of the parliamentary representatives. The first is Mr. Georgantas, then Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Poppas, Mr. Pafilis, and Mr. Lappas will be closed. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr George Georgios Georgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there is something undeniable: it has not come on your day, on your own four-and-a-half-year rule, no code of ratification in this House. That's for granted. However, I have a proposal to make you get through this and you have a first codification, because it is relatively easy to say: you can start by codifying all the legislative intervention of your government, which start with the words 'with the exception of all general and specific provisions'. There is no legislation in which there is no amendment, which is ultimately incorporated into the draft law, which does not start with the words 'within any general and specific provision'. This is the culmination of your government's good lawmaking. With a clipboard, I saw that these are about fifty-eight. Look for the rest of us, and let us codify all your legislative initiatives of this content. If you have anything to say about the substance and your choice, please, say it in your dentistry. With great interest, I will listen to you. I do not want to say, of course, that the amendments, which are inconsistent with the texts of the laws, which these four years are about eight hundred and fifty if I remember well. Because when we talk about codification, we are generally talking about the principles of good legislature.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u146	You brought three hundred and fifty in one night.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u147	You've broken every record. You brought eight hundred fifty-four in four years. On many issues you've broken every record, including it. I, Minister, when I heard you talk about the first part of the codification bill, did not see you doing a project report. Four and a half years you've been in the country's rulership. You referred to what the previous governments did not complete. Good. You have forgotten, of course, that the only sanctions made by previous governments have been implemented. There are some integrated ones that did not come for a number of reasons for ratification here. Why didn't you bring them? I can't really understand it. But I have not seen anyone here in terms of codification from now on, after four and a half years. I can understand you, of course, since you don't believe in good lawmaking. And you are now coming with this specific provision on the possibility of intervention by the Central Commission in the reform of the law which leaves many questions. I don't want to say anything else. He's leaving too many questions. There is no specific way of expressing this committee's competence. I think that all this will create issues. And of course, all this can create issues in the next government. We'll work it out. We'll be able to do it. That is what I wanted to say in relation to codification. In fact, I expect an answer to these fine amendments by way of derogation from all general and specific provisions. In relation to the second point, you have managed to get to all of you. And when I say to everyone, I don't just mean political parties. You have managed to have a committee to the Prime Minister by the President of the European Network of National Human Rights Agency in relation to the composition of the committee in question. I hear your arguments. But I also have a few questions I would like to ask, which I would really like to answer. Of course - I will not disagree with that - the joint legislator has competence over the recommendation. According to the letter of the law, it has competence over the composition of the committee. But two general principles must be defended and defended: One is that the independence of this committee should be safeguarded as a national institution. In my view, it is therefore necessary to consult and work towards convergence and convergence with its positions, an effort which it seems has not been done at any level. They must defend a second one, which you don't have to be an expert to understand. This is that there must be a balance between pluralist representation and overrepresentation. So when I see this change in composition with seven new members in a specific direction, I rightly and rightly speak of an intervention which now leads to overrepresentation and, at the same time, to a difficulty in finally operating this committee. I'll tell you something else: we have antiquities in a few days. There's gonna be a new board in the committee. Why not wait for these antiquities and then consult these new members, which will arise so that we can see whether there is an agreement, or whether there is agreement, an attempt at genuine consultation and convergence for the next period. So, five days, ten days before the antiquities, you come here epically...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u148	This has been amended.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u149	It went on May 1st, I know that, Mr. Comrade. However, what I would like to say is that, if you really wanted it, you would have it with the new members who will come out in 15 days. Do you not care about the views of the new members elected on 19 April, to see if they agree with this overrepresentation, with this change in composition, with this change in membership, the increase from twenty-five to thirty-two? We have an election in fifteen days and you have led to such a substantial change in the composition, which leads to the resignation of the President, and do you not care that this necessary consultation has not only taken place, but has forced the chairman of the committee to speak of concern? 'We are concerned about the procedure to be followed'. This was done in a committee accredited with A for its work and received rewards. I really cannot understand, and I would like you to explain to me what requests from the social groups, not individual ones - because this representation must really be pluralist, but it cannot be completely specific, because in the end we must have two hundred members in such a composition in a committee - and what effort has actually been made to consult. I would also like you to answer the question why you were not expecting the composition of the new committee. I therefore think you have managed to achieve an institutional national, which has worked in a way that rewarding exists through the objective process by the international community - accreditation with A is not easy, we know - it has a unanimous decision of the committee itself to open it up, anyway - there is such a unanimous decision. I would consider whether this decision on enlargement to a particular extent would have been a unanimous decision, but a majority of them would have said that enlargement would have to be greater. It is unanimous that the decision on the small enlargement decided on by the Council, whose term of office expires on 19 April. I therefore think it is unfortunate that you should take action in this way now. It gives the legal basis for the way in which it takes place, the time in which it takes place, to talk about civil service and it is up to you to withdraw this claim by withdrawing this section of the bill, as a new council to be set up with the antiquities that will take place on 19 April may have a completely opposite view and I think you should be interested in a national independent institution operating in a way of good cooperation with the government in question. I do not hope that you will proceed with such a move, because you are obviously committed, but I must mention it. Because, Minister, you have also made a reference to the timeliness of the days, I am also obliged to refer to the timeliness you are trying not to see or try to avoid. Did you know yesterday that there was a conviction by a high-level court of CEDEFOP? Convict. I have not heard any comments, I have not seen any response from the government to complaints that have been made systematically in the conduct of this particular executive of CEDEFOP, which may have been simple complaints so far, but we now have a conviction of a Greek criminal court. I really expect the government's attitude and response.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u150	Commander, Mr. Georganta?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u151	Of course, a government-positioned strain, to say that. Not to mention the name, because the decision has not been finalised, but we have a first conviction and you understand very well that there are also issues of political and moral order that go into a person who continues to exercise power while he has been convicted. I will say something about the history of the order for the prosecution of the parties, two things that you have either paralysed or distorted: The first is that this order of persecution, if it goes ahead, proves that no ambiguity about anything that was not attempted by the previous government, because the famous amendment that you all said was made only to protect the bank executives in 2014 did not prevent anyone from ordering criminal prosecution and, after all, you, obviously viewing it as a good amendment, do not cancel it until today as it was voted on at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u152	It's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u153	It also applies today as it was voted on at the time. It has not been judged by anything unconstitutional. It's true, you didn't abolish it. Now bring an amendment late - which is your custom - is your favorite tactic - bring it now to annul the 2014 amendment on allegedly amputation of bank managers. On the contrary, you have brought 2017 an amendment which exempts from any criminal and civil liability all the bank executives responsible for the restructuring and debt write-offs of entrepreneurs, in 2017, your own article in the law that was passed, not only specific criminal value, and criminal liability and bourgeoisie. One last thing: The restriction of the whole party grant in one quarter was made by the Samara - Venizelos government. The ban on the lending of parties, the ban on assignment, was done by this law. We have limited the subsidy of the parties to one quarter. If we did not have our legislative intervention, we would not today be talking about this great debt, which is indeed there, but where the entire New Democracy grant is directed in an attempt to actually repay our debts. Last year's total budget for the last year's grant, 4.7 million, went there. However, others who laugh today achieved laughing at 60% of their debts to keep the property of Koumoundouros. No lawmaker in Greece has seen debt write off while there's a mortgage on property. Get me a case where, while there's a mortgage on a property, 60% of debt has been written off! It only happened on the left, no one else. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u154	We shall proceed with Mr Andreas Loverdos, a Parliamentary spokesman for Democratic Incorporation, and then Mr Papapas will be closed, Mr Lappas will follow the seconds for any rapporteur who wants and the debate will be concluded with the President of the Council. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, Mr Kaklamanis, you were not here this morning, Mr Georgiadis was in your place. I have asked the current Minister, Mr. Tzanakopoulos, to withdraw Chapter II of this draft law on the National Committee on Human Rights, at the request of the Prime Minister, Mrs. Emily Logan, asking him to take back this section of the draft law, because she has problems, firstly, lack of prior consultation and, secondly, problems of substance. Ladies and gentlemen, who is Mrs. Logan? It is the President of the European Network of the Institutions of the States for Human Rights. What's that network? It's one of the four relevant regional networks on the planet. Where does these four regional networks of the planet fall, on human rights? The United Nations Organization. What does Mrs Emily Logan say to the Prime Minister? Remove the second part of the draft law on the composition of the National Committee on Human Rights. Why does Mrs. Logan say that? Because it is not compatible, it is not in line with the principles of the United Nations' Paris Convention. ‘Is not in line with UN Paris Principles’. I say it as the letter says, so you don't tell me I don't carry, but I interpret. That's what he tells you. In fact this morning, along with this text which is put before us and which you despise, the resignation of the chairman of the National Committee for Human Rights comes. Why is he telling you? It says that you are deciding to extend the composition of the committee like the government, that is to say, by ignoring the founding law of the National Committee on Human Rights, which in Article 2(1) states that the committee first finds which area of rights needs to be represented in the National Commission and then the Government is recommended to Parliament and the House decides. That's the process. However, it is not the government who finds it to make majority and minority votes, but it is carried out by the National Commission itself, which, ladies and gentlemen, comes directly to the Prime Minister. In its first composition, I was a member of the Prime Minister, Costas Simitis, and I speak in the name of knowledge. I know why these committees were set up in the forty-four countries of Europe. This has been done so that they can operate in the context of the protection of rights. How do you want the rights? You want them to be like justice, where you went to establish - and you're still fighting - your own government core there. The independent authorities have despised them. We have discussed them a thousand times in this Chamber. And now you are supposed to be a party that supports rights and is also supported by its fight for rights. You are driving the chairman of the committee to resign and you are giving the opportunity to make a fool of ourselves within the UN, forcing Mrs Emily Logan to ask you to withdraw the draft law because you are not in line with the general principles of the United Nations. Congratulations! Because I listened to your speech - and I consider it very carefully -, can I say that my question spontaneously came to me: Are you working for us? I really ask you. It comes to me spontaneously, because I heard what you said, that everything is fine. But there's a matter here, and it's written. You're a young man. You know that. You can see it. Why are you overdoing it? What's your point? Why should this debate be held today in this House? Who needs these kinds of conflicts on an international view of rights, which you know how much we have in Greece has been afflicted and how badly we are, especially with the problem of immigration and refugee? What did you have in mind when you chose this road to go against all this and to expose ourselves internationally? It is worth noting that everyone who listens to us, because we often speak with arctics, we speak with phrases that we understand, but people do not understand, to read to hear from any of us, what he told you and what he addressed to the Prime Minister, because that is where the National Committee on Human Rights comes from today, Mr Stavropoulou resigns: "Legislation..." - that is, that is, which you suggest - "... proceeded without public consultation, without the Government ever informing specifically the National Committee on Human Rights about it, and even though in our decision of 27 November 2018, a unanimous decision of the Committee's plenary, we decided on each individual arrangement and already on 28 March 2019, the committee rejected the specific arrangement, denounced both the procedure followed and the substance of the arrangement." That's what the President tells you. And he goes on to say: "The rights of man are not hierarchical, but are at the same level and are protected equally when they are offended." The Roma community, of course, must be represented. We have also supported this and the committee has done so, as has the LGBTKI community. We too have supported this, and we support it and respect it and have repeatedly said it. On the first question and on the second question, the ECHR has already made a decisive contribution to highlighting their problems, highlighting with scientific work and public positions the need for their immediate solution, often supporting the relevant legislative initiatives. And he even tells you - and I am closing the relevant report - that: 'We regret that the Prime Minister of the country, to which the National Committee on Human Rights is subject, and which is his institutional advisor, has never found a little time in recent years to be informed by its Bureau of the human rights situation in the country and the problems of the national committee'. That's what he tells you. Let the Greek people know what you told us before. My speech this morning was enough, but the way you addressed us, forced me to be analytic and it doesn't really interest you, because here you are creating a problem for yourself, without any of us knowing why. You know. Another minority - majorities. It is poor, humble and unfair to human rights. I'm coming to the second topic. You are not concerned with this draft law either, but we are talking about codes today. Article 76(6) of the Constitution stipulates that there are codes - I am not talking again about our case - coming to Parliament by a special legislative committee and whether the House accepts or refuses them as a whole. So it's in the consultation, which is over as far as we've learned, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. There's no day when I'm in court that won't tell me in the hallway judge or prosecutor that this law is unfair, it takes time to have a dialogue. My objection is: "But it provides for the post-war law on the abusers of public money, which must finally be changed, and we must say all right to Mr Kalogeros who makes the change.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u156	It doesn't change him. He's taking him down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u157	That's right, he's taking him down. I'm saying we can't overlook that because it's good. The proposal that has been made to us and which I have addressed to the National Representation again is that the Minister of Justice should bring the relevant regulation and the rest of the part which is huge, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code, to remain in consultation for more time. Events are already being organized throughout Greece and the universities and judiciary associations. I'm telling you. I would like to stress this. This is the second time I've done it, and please take it into account. Here today we have a Central Committee on Coding, which concerns Article 76(7) of the Constitution, which speaks of a mere classification. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u158	No, that's not what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u159	Now listen. You're talking to me. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u160	Paragraph 7?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u161	That's right. We have another issue, that is. And here you are bringing us a draft law, the first part of which is supposed to be organised by improving the committee concerned. I am an active lawyer, as are thousands of other colleagues throughout the country, but also judges and prosecutors. When we have a topic to deal with, we look back on the relevant information networks that exist. At the Athens Bar Association we have the "Isocrates". Many of us are consulting the "Law". And, as Mr Carras says, I - I did not know - the 'Notutely' which he has - says - and good case law by the Council of State. The codification committees, as you yourself mentioned, with examples of criticising our own periods - I agree - are committees, which can only be useful if they operate on the basis of digital technology and if they cooperate practically with those companies that provide legal information to us in the field and, obviously, politicians from outside the public area. Without this cooperation in the digital age, all this is absolutely useless. And very nicely, Mr Karras - very nicely - pointed out that spending on something is also increasing, which can only be done on the basis that we are working on the basis of technology. If we don't work on technology and we work old, where codification of legislation was a huge bet, but also possible in what measure, then we're elsewhere. However, without criticising SYRIZA alone, I would like to remember a phrase of my own, ladies and gentlemen. When you brought us, when you really broke us, acts of legislation at first, I told you from the House, using a phrase by Alekos Alavanos: 'Good children'. The point is, however, that the first two years have passed and now you are bringing ten amendments to each draft law. The diffusion of the current amendments makes the work of the lawrs uncertain in Greece uncertain. It's hard to locate the device. If there is technology to deal with, it must be respected. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I understood today that a Minister spoke to Parliament in terms of the previous century and not in terms of the present century. This is a pity, because you are still treating a title, 'promoting, improving the relevant legislation', but you are once again making a hole in the water. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. I'd just like another thirty seconds. I would like to express our agreement - Mr Karas said so again - on the amendment by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. It is partly a positive step, as Mr Karras and Mr Kegeroglu are informing me, because it is not complete. In the rest of the islands we have a cover for transport equivalent and for people - ticketing, that is - and for fuel and goods, and now through the middle of the plane. There's nothing in Crete. Only for goods and special sizes. Yes, it's a start, we support it, but it's not complete at all. There are other issues of amendment, but I do not have time. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the slight tolerance and thank you very much for the Members who have listened to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd St. Nicholas Lassithiou High School. The House welcomes the girls, as we say. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Kozobol has the floor to present an amendment for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. With an amendment - which I sign together with my colleague Mr Lappa - we propose that the information collected should be used as a basis for the removal of banking confidentiality, that is to say we propose an amendment to the legislative framework for 'possibly'. Therefore, for those who are obliged to check ‘from a point of view’, we suggest that there should be an obligation to check and to remove banking confidentiality. I will say a few words about why this proposal is being made. First of all, there is the possibility for the authorities that make control 'where you were' to lift and control banking confidentiality. However, there is no uniform procedure. Other authorities do, others do not. And those who so request, ask for papers today, take a deadline of two, three months, so there is a long delay. So the proposal, on the one hand, strengthens the credibility of control, on the other hand unifys the whole process of control and, on the other, is very important - there is a lot of speed in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, too. Mr Pappas, the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u165	I shall begin, Mr President, with the unambiguous and pertinent condemnation of the murderous attack of the PAME trumpets, i.e. the JRC, Rhodes, the GFCF conference and the injury of four members of this administration. Severely are the responsibilities of the government and the political and physical leadership of ELAS for this violent invasion of the two hundred members of the PAMM in the night, at 03.30'00 at dawn, which members violated the doors of the “RODOS PALACE” hotel, smashed smuggling and smuggled the lots into subscribers and members of the GFCM administration. This is the case in the dissolved state of the 'first time left'. We saw from the TVs and reports the KKE executive Sotiris Pouliannis running through the hotel at the time of the iron invasion in the hand. This KIC bulldog is a witness to the trial - a device against the Golden Dawn, to understand - and to understand the world in particular - what they are - and who they are - the real criminal organisation. I transfer from the account of the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn to the social networks, twitter, the post an hour ago, where he says: "EAM - ELAS - Melillas in practice. The new OBD in full action. This is the KIC of the democratic arch! Rejoice on the left and liberal and above all you of the New Democracy, who respect and honor the history of the Left! Do you honor the lotus in the GFCM?’. Of course, none of the political correct lovers and mistresses of the Communist Party of Greece condemned the similar attack at the offices of the Golden Dawn last Saturday, thus highlighting the hypocritical political culture that all parties of the so-called "constitutional arch". In the organized attack of the tens of gangbangers - with the obvious support of the sad clique of the leadership of the Greek Police - there was no statement of condemnation by any of you. And that's natural, because you're actually a bow, yes, arch really anti-democratic, arc anti-Salan and arch anti-National. You are pleased about this tramboukic attack, because your only enemy is the rising power of the nationalists of the Golden Dawn, the real popular right of our time. We are discussing today in plenary this bill, Mr President, two days after the Prime Minister's visit to Skopje. It was a visit that accompanied businessmen, representatives of pluralism, representatives of a reduced national conscience, since money has no home. It was a visit that showed in the eyes of the Greek people that the catastrophe of the betrayal of SYRIZA and of Mr Tsipras himself and his likes has no end. However, there was also a visit - a precursor to unfavourable, further development on our national issues. Mr Tsipras's political course is regrettable! Mr. Tsipras, after betraying our Macedonia, continues his ethnic destructive work. He ended up in Skopje making fun of him and taking selfie photos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u166	You can remove the word you used.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u167	Please, which one?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u168	One. You know very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u169	The phrase ‘national destructive work’? The sad one? The treason?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u170	Yeah, that's her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u171	The "carrier"? Who? People see and know. Remove anything you want. Mr. Tsipras did not mention at the "Macedonia" airport in Thessaloniki and he renamed it at the "Micra airport", offering another gift to the Skopje scepters of our name and history, that is, to NATO and American slavery - like the domestic ones - who had asked for the rename since 2008. We have noted since the beginning of the betrayal of the Prespecies that the agreement includes the removal of the name "Macedonian" and "Macedonian" from everywhere within Greece. We have, as a typical example, brought the case of the airport "Macedonia" in Thessaloniki. And then some people were sarcastic to us, and they were flirting with us. Let it be! The Greek people understand and the people's wisdom says, "He laughs better." A few days are political. Either way, you're done. You are finishing with a great success, a great political success! On the "first time left" you clearly showed the Greek people what it means left, what it means to rule left. That is why your first time will be the last definitive and irrevocable. On the other hand, we have the attempt of mass deception to present the colourless, odourless, subtonic Census, the neoliberal New Democracy, as an adversary awe to this four-year-old left plunder. And despite propaganda in televisions, papers and electronics, more and more Greeks - and especially in northern Greece - understand that if you vote New Democracy, you recognize Skopje as "North Macedonia". Mr Mitsotakis, even before the infamous and treacherous Prespecies' agreement was ratified - in the way he was finally ratified, namely by the loan votes from the relays of the political scene - he stressed that he would respect the agreement, even by putting his own people - professors, etc. - to tell people that the agreement is a part, supposedly, of international law and, if it is ratified, cannot be abolished, denounced, or anything else. And all that time New Democracy has done was to remain a mere spectator of developments, which in itself makes it an accomplice to the SYRIZA, accomplice to those who signed the treacherous agreement that sold out our Macedonia. And they even signed it against economic exchanges, i.e. silvers of treason, as journalists are denounced, but also the late partner and confronting the SYRIZA President of the ANELs. Mr Mitsotakis said before the vote that he would accept the composite name, namely 'North Macedonia'. He didn't propose reproach. He did not vote for the thorough and legally substantiated proposal of unconstitutionalism tabled by the Golden Dawn, excluded the referendum, blocked the cancellation of the agreement and cynically stated that he would implement it. Mr Mitsotakis did not reply to the last appeal from the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn to all those who would vote against the agreement, namely that Members' resignations should be subjected massively, that Parliament should remain with Members of this House less than two hundred and - as the Constitution states - so that we should lead to elections, which would take the form of a referendum. And there the Greek people would decide - as would, of course, the democratic and the right - on the name of our Macedonia and on the ratification or not of the Prespecies Agreement. Mr Mitsotakis, the populist deep-selling genus who has never worked - they are not my words, Mr President, they are words of the current Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Adonni Georgiadis, on a television show eight years ago - they are not self-incriminating. Mr. Mitsotakis is nailing his people too. I read the words of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy of Nikos Dendias, in an interview with the radio station "REAL FM" and journalist Nikos Hadjikolaou. He asks Hatzinikolau: 'The name 'North Macedonia' is a name which, if there were no two thorns of language and citizenship, could be accepted by New Democracy? No one's answering me." Answer Nineteen: "I will answer you directly, but it is much more important than my answer, which will be shortly afterwards, I will tell you. Invoke the head of the party. As you know, the New Democracy is always - and that was the right thing to do, so is the very nature of this organization - bound by its Chief. So Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in the most absolute and responsible way and repeatedly, has said that we are coordinates with the national line of the complex name. And "North Macedonia" is a complex name. For the record, I quote Mr Teddy's interview. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned transcript, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And it's not just him. Just two days ago Stavros Theodorakis, the journalist - President of the Potamio, made a serious political complaint, revealing that the Members of the New Democracy told him to vote for the Prespecies Agreement so that they could pass, so that they could not remain the "hot potato". Speaking specifically on radio "2,47" he said attributes: "We proved our generosity, among other things, with Macedonian". He also said: "Many of those who now go out to the squares and shout about the Prespes, we were told not to dare to vote on the agreement." And in all this, instead of Mr Mitsotakis being silent, looking forward to the well-known theory of the short memory of the Greek people, he reiterated - as his father did - that the name will be forgotten. And he went out with a lot of nerve in Veria, the hypocritical political liberal president of the NW to tell the protesting citizens, Greek patriots, the Macedonian patriots who sang him and said, "You are the traitors, like Tsipras", "Why didn't you quit?" "Where were you in Parliament at this time when we were fighting against the Prespecies Agreement?" Only laughing can the awkward response of the President of the New Democracy cause. We, Mr Mitsotakis, were here in the streets, in the squares, in the rallys, and we will continue to be, defending our Macedonia and our national laws. You, Mr. Mitsotakis, were absent as a deep-seated genus you wrote the oldest of your footwear the Greek people and instead of being at the rallys, you went skiing. We, Mr Mitsotakis, as a real patriotic movement, as a genuine patriotic party, as a emerging major political movement of popular nationalism, will always be here and we will not stop talking about and fighting for what Macedonia says is a Greek! You, Mr. Mitsotakis, just respect betrayal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You'll give me a minute, and thank you. We now come to the question raised by the Greek people - and I am not the only addressee of this question, you are all addressing this question - when, that is, when parliamentary elections will be held. I hope it will be done on time, because in theory the Bolsheviks have already answered the question. I read Lenin's case: "You don't leave power when you've won it." That's what Lenin says. As a citizen I join with the agony of the ordinary Greek and I wish, by reading this piece of shit, good left-handed! There can be no Greek who trusts you. And I am addressing you - seeing your civil war strangles, your ideas, your revancism, which comes from 1944-1949, listening even to the statements of your MPs - who say that by the Prespecies Agreement a chapter of the civil war has been closed, a chapter of the honorable struggles of the EAM - ELAS has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen - and I turn to the question of 'when will elections be held?', particularly to you left-wingers - you are ending politically and you know it. It's all over and you, too. How long will it last? Two months? Three months? Six months? It's not going more than that. The real hope is coming. Not yours, the falsification. The Greek hope for a new Greece comes. Put it well in the left hemisphere of your brain, everyone you have. You're done! Now Golden Dawn to dig up the place!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u172	Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u173	The fascists, murderers and stabbings of the Bridge, migrants and others, the remains of Hitler - the Pope said hilariously, there are photographs - those who over the years have done, among other things, are defending the interests of capital and destroying the workers, they have come today to defend the employer. That's their role. To defend the trade union mafia that has sat on the workers' neck and which should go to jail - and I will prove it - with what they have done. So they came to confirm their role. And their role is, "The dog barks at the feeder's" -- that's what they say in my village -- that's to the big bosses. They are the ones who set up a job office in Chalkida, who blackmailed employers to get Greek workers with 16 euros of share. We denounced it in the House and closed it. They are the ones who went to set up a union in the ship repair zone to drop the losses in the name of unemployment. They are the ones who made a murderous attack on bats, nails against trade unionists of PAME and Sotiris Poulianni who were unable to kill him back then, who braggedly denounces these underworld fascists. They are, therefore, those who have today assumed the role of supporting Mr Koutsouki, who is involved in the greatest illusions and who today had a extreme right-wing delirium condemned even by the IAEA's party. They are the ones who came here to reveal their role, those who have asked a hundred and fifty questions about the interests of shipowners and capital and against workers, those who are being tried as murderers and a criminal organization and who think they have now found a chance to attack the JRC, the class labor movement and people who are not communists, but have literally disgusted what is happening with this trade union mafia within GSEE. It's them! If they think they're gonna pass, they're delusional, they're sleeping upright. We don't chew or chew. They will be rallied together and dug up the Chamber more generally than they do, but also this mafia installed in the GSEE which unravels the interests of the workers. Court of Justice of the European Communities Listen. I say this to the Greek people more, because what they are playing on television, despite the fact that some other things are being put forward, also create another feeling. First, the GSC is now illegal. Her term of office has expired for 15 days. You lawyers here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u174	What can we lawyers do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u175	No, you don't. What do you think? Can an organization that has ended its term of office proclaim a conference? Oh, no. Secondly, it has as employers' representatives - I will say concrete elements - that are involved in administrations of public limited companies, which are involved in banks, insurance companies, which have their own companies. In fact, one is a vice president. Don't say the name. He's famous. ‘Vice-Chairman of the GFCM.’. There are unions - ghosts, with unions that have not submitted any documents of archivism in the first instance and which have brought dozens of representatives into GSEE. Court outside of every statutory legality! Conference with bracelets. That's what Golden Dawn supports. They're most of them. Not all martial arts like that. A conference with bounces paid, with criminals taken by the gentleman - not to say his name again - and the GFCM to check on the representatives. Do you understand that? Instead of the GSEE and its committees, the inflatable, closed the hotel, completely devastated it, left forty points to pass, and four face controls were made to enter elected representatives from the trade unions. That's the mob. They support them. Is that a conference? Does the statutes of the GFCM lay down committees? They haven't done anything. Nothing! Nowhere! That's how I want it! Five-star conference, paid by the employees, by decisions of this trade union mafia. A conference that decided to exclude the media. This is their democracy. What did they say? When the vote is over. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. Is it possible for the supreme trade union federation conference not to discuss the problems or even make any decisions? Such a monkey conference they want. Court without legitimacy of the representatives. What does the statute say? There is a debate and there is a legitimacy of representatives on the basis of the evidence available. Conference with immorality and lies. April, this trade union mafia chose to send lies to all the media. A conference of twenty secondary organisations, labour centres and federations and sixty representatives, an extrajudicial office, which I will present to the House to remain historically. It's ninety pages. I would ask everyone who wants to have a picture of what's going on, get it and read it. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned extrajudicial, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will say a few things to see what conference these faithful capital servants want to do, which will be apologise mainly for their politics, but also for many other things. And the nomine! Well, let's see. Representatives of employees, members of management boards. And let these wicked ones, heads of cheese and salamia. That's a joke. I'm starting with the names. Karageoropoulos, President and Managing Director - known - at the PEGASUS FORTUNA GAMING S.A.'. The Vice-President is an elected representative - please! - two federations, not one, illegal. Other. Federation of Insurance Associations of Greece. Representatives: Board members and directors of S.A. These are employee representatives. In other words, they will negotiate with themselves. Chairman of the Board of Directors of the company ‘NAMPYXIAKI KILKIS S.A.’. He is the president of an anonymous company and a representative at the GSC conference. Representatives of the Federation of Associations of Technical Enterprises of Greece. Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace. I'll say it all, one, one. Other: Municipal official. Not to mention the names. All these are representatives of the working class on the board of companies. Association - ghosts with perforated procedures. Here we go. Listen. Freezing Association - Conservatives - Conservatives "The Race" elected representatives for the Veroia Work Center is alleged to have held elections with participation - listen! - three thousand five hundred twenty-five employees. Of these thousands in the voting protocol, not one - not one has signed! - while in a few cases the identity card number is indicated. I think that the number of votes cast shows a lot and the fact that he has only elected eight representatives for the labour centre instead of a hundred seventeen to vote on the basis of three thousand and something. These are the evidence. Let's go down. Private Officers' Association, Kilkis. It took office with three hundred sixty-eight votes elected by 12 representatives, while the situation of the voters includes only sixty voters. Do you understand where we live? It's purely mafia, the whole case, like in America with the mafia, for those who know history. Sixteen out of twenty - nine unions of the Carditsa Labour Center have no deposited archbishops for the elections allegedly held. We searched them in the courtroom, and there's nothing there. But they are also representatives at the GSEE conference. In Fhoti's the same. To understand, because the center was dismantled due to economic problems - there's a lot of money Mars, they say - the unions did elections before this center was created. And they have been elected as representatives in the GSC and at the same time do not accept representatives of the Lamia Labour Centre, all legitimate. Pan-Hellenic Navy Federation, P.N.O. How are they elected? In violation of Law 1264/1982, which says that there is a mere analogy. These are sixty-six representatives. Read, Mr Voridis, who is a good lawman, and I do not question it - I do not question the whole outlet now and see who will have the courage and the courage to come out and defend what is happening in GSEE. So what happened? They're going to set up a conference... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me speak for a moment, Mr President. I'm done. What are they doing? Get them back on the workers' neck. They do not support them with these monsters that have become nor representatives elected by other factions. They've been completely isolated. What are they trying to do now? To set up'spray - wipe - finish' with braces. Really, what trade union movement is that? Is it possible to pay, lease with workers' money at night, inflatable from martial arts schools to prevent what? To prevent the discussion and participation of workers. Can he refuse to accept the means? What are they afraid of? So we were there, class forces and other worlds, not just communists. They entered a hotel where they lived. They wouldn't let them in. Do you understand? This was done during Long Theodore and junta. They tried to do it - because we have experience - and after 1974. They call the police, the various democrats - KINAL, where are you, the announcement? - to solve the problems of the trade union movement. This has never been done since 1974. It's a fact, we're dealing with them. We therefore say that it is not the worker, the working class and the trade unions to accept such methods. They will not legalise sixty-six representatives who, when they go to the courts, will see the results if independent justice decides to give all the information in detail. There's no such thing as death. So that's what they want to do, that's to sit back on the neck with the way I want, with smacks and fascists together. Because it seems that the Vice-President is on his way and is involved with the greatest mafias, and that is why he defends himself here. I say that they have separated their position even from the IAEA, that they do not express anti-communism, with what he said today. They're coming out and they're blaming us now that we're broken. But they wouldn't let us in. Do you understand? A representative will go to the conference and will each other control him or each of the Securitates? Where and where? What's that? Is that a trade union movement or the night they control there? That's what they want to turn it into. They have delusionals and fascists here today, these tombs - why do this work permanently and everywhere and are now trying to surface with other things - they come to cover what? The attempt to impose this is how I want employers within the trade union movement to frustrate any result, so that the disappearing all these years of leadership - the trade union mafia we say - of the GCC can continue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It's not going back, and the world won't get back. We are simply saying that, if they think that, like the late Laskaris, old-fashioned class struggle, they will be abolished - they do not want to be abolished, they take their place, they are with the employers, they are not with the workers - they are making a big mistake. We will continue dynamically, informing people of their dirt and stench.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u176	Let's get this over with, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u177	I'm done, Mr. President. They say he showed up with a loot. It was the iron that closed the door, pulled it and pulled it. That's it. But they're screwed. They're too much for the bullies and he couldn't get through. We call on the workers, the working class to fight for class orientation of the labour movement, to highlight forces struggling at the side of the workers and to isolate all these elements. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u178	SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Spyros Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pafile, the sad description you have just made does not know to what extent, to what extent, it responds to reality, but I think it is. But this proves that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u180	Take the out-of-court.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u181	As regards the mafia you are complaining about, I must tell you that there were many kinds of mafias in this country. Walls and wires were lifted and kept out of progress, prosperity and development. Listening to you, I remembered a very nice Kazan movie, "The Port of Anguish", with Marlon Brando. Many of Parliament's representatives have used topical and urgent information. I, too, will start by pointing out two things from current news. First of all, Mr President, I would like to say to you that all European and world media since yesterday have been dealing with the visit of the Prime Minister of the country with a staff of many ministers and hundreds of businessmen, the pyramid of the country's business and economic world. The message of this visit - I say it publicly in Parliament to listen to it too - is that with this choice we made, the Prespecies Agreement and the visit that confirms it at all levels, the message is one: We shatter walls, build bridges, build stable and with a view to friendship and peaceful coexistence with our northern neighbours. Stability and economic cooperation are being built up in the Balkans, an area that sparked tensions, controversies, and even war conflicts. In other words, the fruits of the Prespecies Agreement began to pay off. Everything else I can hear. A second is this. The Qualified Opposition, when a judicial announcement is made of a member of the judiciary involved in justice or in the prosecutor's office or in interrogator, etc., works immediately with political, social and legal verbatimism. Immediately he reacts and throws the ball in the platform. In other words, while we have an order of persecution, all of a sudden in all the media that the New Democracy controls, we are listening to the word 'Petsiti'. And if you have any information about the Petsiti, we have brought you an amendment today, gentlemen of the Officerial Response, that the committee of intel has all the information available and is moved by a newspaper, from any source, from the site, immediately able to lift the bank, tax and professional secrecy, even to the Prime Minister himself. That's what we did. So take your information to the committee where it is responsible. That's the one. Secondly, are you serious, Mr Georganta, when you say that you are doing your utmost to settle your loans? You talk to one who I had the honour of proposing the majority conclusion. Have you forgotten what we were talking about in committee, or have you forgotten what our conclusion was about? Did you forget that the conclusion of our finding told us that all state funding - and tactics and election - was going for repayment of loans, yours and PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u182	The commission made criminal responsibilities?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u183	You would pay back in just four hundred years and the PASOK also in few years, in eight hundred. Let the Greek people hear it, Mr Georganta: All the electoral funding, tactics and emergency, if it goes to the regulation of your loans, you will be paid in full in four hundred years. I would also like to say to the PASOK colleagues that we have calculated and told the committee that in eight hundred years' time, Mr Carras. So you find other sources of funding to settle your loans, because the Greek people are asking the question every day. Now we're making an amendment to the regulation of the loans, and everyone says where we're gonna find the money to settle, what possibilities we have. But does the parties of power not answer the Greek people? What are you going to do, gentlemen, with your own loans? Answer it at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u184	With the brews of two euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u185	With the 60% haircuts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u186	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u187	The haircuts have been to the prosecutor's office. There's a decision. Let go. You got the answer from our finding. It's not about a haircut.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Lappa, don't address yourself personally!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u189	I heard you guys talking about a haircut. Eight fertile auctions were made and the price for each auction was reduced to one part, as provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure. That's what you call a haircut. Looks like you've got your senses tied up, apparently.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u190	And the property is clean to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u191	So why did you refer to the parties' loans, to tell you what our finding said, something important, to find a common dimension of all the political forces, to look into the mirror boldly and honestly? What did he say? Three things he said. We must now restore the basic pillars of political, social and economic life. First, it's the bank pillar. Those years - after all, they are hundreds of fifteen of their judiciary-controlled officials - we said that since 2018, while there has been a global trend towards a restrictive policy, the bank executives of all systemic banks have provided unseen loans to your parties. That's the point. In fact, at the same time as the last borrower was called and financially strangled by a contemporary or professional who had a grocery store around the corner, there was privileged treatment in the parties, with a sinful source of funding for the then Agricultural Bank of Greece, ATE. Let's not talk now about what we did about it, we talked about it in detail. Secondly, it is the information sector which, at the same time as the Constitution had the obligation to provide objective information and information and to control power, was literally the therapy of the economic and political elite. He made the record that the memorials are very well, that austerity is very good, that the wages and pensions cuts are very good. Of course it is also the third pillar, the political system, which we must all see, I am not just saying you. If you want, we can see him together. But say what you will do with your loans, because the price and credibility of the political system, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed in Nadir. There is no other bottom than the credibility and dignity of the political system, as expressed at least by your parties. You can't go down there. For seven years you cannot say what you will do with your loans. Say it at last! Let us now refer to the bill. In the committee, and here too, a question has been raised or doubted whether this bill and its provisions are necessary. In order to answer the question of whether the bill is necessary, we need to see in what context and in what administrative area, under what circumstances. The pathogens of public administration are known. After all, they attract their origins from the establishment of the Greek state and mainly after the great war. In fact, the explanatory statement states that, if I remember correctly, the rapporteur, for the first time, referred to a bill as 'Codification of Administrative Legislation'. For the first time in 1959, imagine! Since 1959, nine years after the great war and civil spasm, there is codification from the modern Greek state for the first time! And we are now eighty years later, and we are discussing the same problems again! In question whether or not this bill is necessary, I would say that it is breath - I said it to the committee - the breath, the breath of the Greek state, the Greek public administration, and it had to be done yesterday, yesterday and yesterday beforehand, to be repeated today. It should be stressed constantly that without the codification and reform of Greek legislation there can be no legal certainty. And Mr Paradoxopoulos who is here knows that without legal certainty there can be no basic democratic principle, that of the rule of law. People's sovereignty is violated, if you do not have a legitimate public administration judged by legal results. Public administration is now legalised, not by law, but by whether it produces results internationally now. That's her term. So this cannot be done without codification of the whole legislation. This is the situation, therefore, and we said that in this area there is a dominance of public service headlines, the partisanisation of the management's choices for human resources, incredible functional introvertibility, customer relations, bureaucracy which had reached 6.8% of GDP by 2010. That is, only bureaucracy costs 12 to 13 billion euros a year, as a result of pluralism and evil. There's corruption asymmetrical for a peaceful period. Mr Sourlas, a New Democracy official, estimated it at EUR 12 billion and Mr Rakinzis at EUR 17 billion, with methods and tools of modern Euro-Union law. And we're saying that you don't have to? And they all have their source in the lack of coding. Not only can the lawmaker, but neither can the interpreter say what is true of Greek law anyway. And you're telling me it's not necessary? However, I say we do not have a zero. In fact, such an initiative has been attempted in the past. But, you know, there was a consistent plan called "programming and strategic planning". The phrase "strategic design" for the first time entered the legal language after 2010 under the pressure of the troika and much more systematically after 2015 in all our public administration bills. Nineteen legislative interventions were made for public administration in a direction, i.e. to stop bureaucracy, to deal with crime and pluralism, to deal with the phenomena of bureaucracy and corruption. That's the target. If these phenomena are not tackled, what development are we going to talk about? How will the Greek environment become attractive for a domestic or foreign investor if we do not resolve these causes that trigger major issues and major problems, which are, literally, found in front of us daily? What did the public administration do to what I'm telling you right now? Indeed, from all the conferences, conferences and two days and from the writings for public administration and from the National School of Public Administration, it is found that the public administration strongly resisted any modernist intervention and was unable to monitor it itself or did not want to do so. Here, be careful, we are talking about the political system of the time, not only for the public administration, because if the political system had the will, it would in some way make it possible to monitor by public administration the new patterns of the constantly changing economic and social environment. So, then, pluralism and evil are what he wants to deal with the bill. The provisions of the bill were largely analysed by the Minister. I'd just like to read two things to you. Also, the Minister did very well and read Articles 11 and 12 of Law 4048 on the notion of reform. That is where Mr Paradoxopoulos was placed, and he said that there is a need for further clarification. It was given to the third meeting of the committee, I think. I have no doubts anymore. In particular, this reference to Articles 11 and 12 of Law 4048 leaves no doubt. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 we have a conference in which author Antonis Argyros speaks: “How do you know a law whose text has undergone parallel replacements, supplements, modifications to paragraphs, in verses, cases, sub-cases, exceptions, and without prejudice to other provisions as amended and supplemented, when a law "cured" includes, for example, eighty articles and thousands of amendments and regulations in other irrelevant points?” That was in 2015. In 2017, the President of the Republic, Prokopis Pavlopoulou, said that “politics and evil are subsequently the ‘storms’ which both strengthen the effective application of the rule of law by those who have the institutional obligation to obey him and the very basis of the rule of law.” You see, then, that the most competent people, scientists and specialist technocrats and experts have been highlighting the problem for years. So you say that this government and the Minister responsible had to sit on his eggs and say, "Hey, we say it? Let's say it again for another ten to fifteen years." Speed is no longer allowed. The economic and social environment is changing both in Greece and in Europe and in the world rapidly. We can't even watch it. Mr President, I will conclude by making a point about Chapter II of the bill. Because there has been a lot of talk about the Paris authorities and you are supposed to likewise with Chapter II, so listen to the basic chapter of the Paris authorities, which I would like to see written in the Minutes as I say: 'The composition of the national institution - i.e. the ECHR - and the appointment of its members by election, or otherwise - by law - takes place in accordance with the new procedure it provides - take note of it, please - all the necessary guarantees to ensure - now the pluralist representation of the social forces (civil society), which are involved in the promotion and protection of human rights'. What's the bill doing? It broadens to such an extent that it covers all the new procedural fields and procedural frameworks developed in our society which, I am sure, do not create them by the government. The memorials, the austerity, the injustice that exists all over the world and in our country creates them. So, should we take no care of that? Even if we don't care about them, that's where society and injustice create them! You're laughing, Mrs. Vulture, but let me tell you that once Martin Luther King had said the injustice that if the injustice is about a place and some, it's about everyone around the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u192	The LGBTQs didn't make the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u193	I do not understand, with regard to enlargement with representatives of such right-holders who are subject to discrimination and exclusion and humiliation, do you object to being involved in this ECHR? After all, this is no independent authority. Are you treating her as an independent authority protected by the Constitution? He is an assistant body of Prime Minister and executive authority. So, how do you see her? To have a different ideological or political concept between the chairman of the committee and the relevant Ministry or any member of the House is legitimate. One of the interested parties is carried out in harmony. After all, you should know that legal science is built in "Nicomachias", "Always gar may have" that is, for all things, there are two opinions. One view is that of Mr Stathopoulos, and one view is that of the Minister and the speaker. So we want enlargement, enlargement and enlargement, so that there can be and represent all those groups of citizens who are on the margin, blockade and their rights on a daily basis are shrunk and oppressed as a result by the respective powers and not only by them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u195	I would like to make a clarification, Mr President. With regard to the amendment we are signing with Mrs Kozobol, I must tell you that the committee was able, in fact, simply on the basis of any information to make and request the lifting of banking, professional and tax confidentiality, but it was very abstract, in general and not specifically. Now, it is obliged to ensure and use any information that leads it to the lifting of this confidentiality. And because the information on all the media controlled by the Qualified Opposition has been "Fed", here is Rhodes, here and here the jump. Come and get us some evidence to get us undone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u197	I would like to take the floor for a legislative improvement. The first subparagraph of Article 12(2) of Law 2667/1998, as replaced by the first subparagraph of Article 10(1) of the draft law, shall be deleted. Secondly, at the beginning of paragraph 2 of Article 10 of the draft law, the following subparagraph is added: ‘The validity of cases (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 shall begin on 1-5-2019’. There was a misunderstanding there. And I would like to make a comment. In relation to the parliamentary amendment on the compulsory removal of bank and tax confidentiality in the audits carried out by the Committee 'wherever it is', the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u200	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u201	In any case, two parliamentary amendments have been tabled by SYRIZA, what Mrs Kozobol has said, and by New Democracy, if I am not mistaken. Let the Minister tell us, because we close, what he accepts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u202	It's known who's being accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u203	Yes, but, if he doesn't, now what will he say 'is known' from whom is known?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u204	From the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u205	But did the Minister say, for these two Members, that he accepted them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u206	For Mrs Kozobol' s parliamentary amendment, she said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u207	Well, now I beg your pardon, Mr President, to be clear about what we are discussing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u208	Through her to kidnappers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, I would like to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u210	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u211	I have just said that, as far as the two Members' amendment relating to the compulsory waiver of bank and tax confidentiality is concerned, the amendment is accepted as far as the Commission's audits are concerned. That amendment. As regards the second amendment tabled by a New Democracy MEP, it was clarified during the debate that there is no question of it, because it has already been settled by previous law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u212	Because it's already set.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u213	Yes, the easily understood ones are omitted. Mrs. Buddhism has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Lappa, the LGBTQs weren't created by the memorials, so there's nothing wrong with the Memorandum. Secondly, you told us that every time we debate the parties' loans, we bring the Petsiti issue. Fake news. Every time the topic comes, please bring the parties' loans. And you referred to Mr Tsipras' visit with businessmen. Obviously you've discovered "El Dorado" in the neighbouring country or had it next to us and we didn't see it. Let me just say that two-thirds of these operators come from state-owned companies and twenty-three are already active in the neighbouring country. It's a pity Mr. Petsite had this misfortune, who's such a genius in business, and he wasn't here, and he's in Nicosia, so the Prime Minister could take him with him. Now, Minister, you have referred to legislative acts, right? Yes, there were legislative acts. However, I would like to remind you that you, in five such legislative acts, have closed the banks. Please indicate that you stopped in December 2015. Until then, they were abundant and with five of them you closed the banks. In fact, this all had a different cost, because bonds, because of your behaviour, only after the referendum, the ten-year referendum, had reached 19.27%, 20%. So, then, this cost somehow has to be measured. Where were the bonds in June 2015, where they were in June 2014 and where they would be if you didn't do all this anomaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u215	In June 2015... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u216	In June 2015, you took 15% of the 10-year-olds. Well, and after the referendum, you took it to 20%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u217	In December 2015... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u218	So you say that your own legislative acts are good, because they are positive measures. When did you vote on legislative acts of our own with positive measures? Even the transfer of school buses to school buses, you had not voted when you were in opposition. So it's not like that. You simply did not vote and you were talking about'shooting with parliamentary cloak'. Once you get all the acts of legislation, you have little to do with the memorandum. Of course, I have them registered. My file doesn't question it. You know what we're doing now. So then, in order not to call you 'PM', 'PM', you are making them amendments, you have made them, it has not changed anything. In fact, all this has been done with amendments. And the minimum wage you're saying and all that should have been abolished on 1-1-2017 if you hadn't brought another memorandum. And because you're saying that with T.A.D., I'm sorry, the superstition, what happened? Another memorial? I don't understand what you're saying. The reality is that, instead of going through what the creditors tell you by means of an act of legislation, you are going through it with amendments, you are not doing anything else. With an article, with a treaty, you gave Macedonia, with a treaty, an international treaty, as if it were nothing. And now you're telling me about the MAGPs that were really positive measures and where you didn't vote? Well, blame the others for making news. Apparently you want to have the exclusive on the make news and you don't want others to do, it seems. You know, that's how that happens. When we start with make news, they all go on with make news. Of course you have one lie ready every time, it's not something, an answer, a lie. And it's not the Petsite now to create an anti-SYRIZA front. The Petsite is a real event. Now, if you suddenly renounce him, that's your business. Mr. Petsis was there. And indeed, it was a great inspiration to the Antonis of Samaras, who you accuse him of not giving Mr. Tsipras. Mr. Tsipras that day, instead of going to pick up, took Petit la bracelet and went to Cesarean. Almost a little while longer, if Samaras had agreed to wait for you, the Petsite would have received the Maximos Mansion with him. And you are telling us now about the 200 million parties and everything else. Aren't you telling me the statements? You received 160 billion, and you took them 120, and now they've gone 130, and we're gonna have to get you to the bells? So where is he? These are 30 billion who left people's pockets with your own actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u219	What do you think, Mrs. Vulture?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u220	Whatever he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u221	What I'm saying, I know. You received statements of 162, you took them in the first year at 120, and you now have them at 130.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u222	The statements you've been to abroad?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u223	Don't be silly. You don't know what you're saying, ma'am.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u224	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u225	You don't know what you're saying. You don't know any of this. Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u226	Please, Mrs. Vulge.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u227	So, did the GDP, which you received from 178.6 billion in 2014 and 2016, go down to 4 billion? Wait a minute, Mr. President. Look, I want to talk. How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u228	Okay, if you say anything about it, the world's not gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u229	No, no, no matter what you're doing in here. I'll do these too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u230	It's all about here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u231	Was the discussion on the parties' loans related to the bill? Oh, no. So you'll get that answer and it's over. It's not a matter. Well, minus 4 billion GDP between our governance and 2016 alone. You still haven't reached 178.6 billion in 2014. Well, if you can't do the bill, what can I tell you? But that's the way it is. You can call Petsite, who's good at all this, great talent, and he's doing good bills. Now, look, Minister, what don't you understand? Here we have a package of protests about this arrangement for the National Committee on Human Rights. I should like here to give the original in English of the letter to Mr Tsipras of Mrs Logan. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Well, we have a package of protests. We have said that you are causing imbalance, anomaly, because you are intervening in the composition of the committee and being circumvented by the principles of equality and representativeness. So now you're saying you're following the Paris authorities. But how do you follow them when, I say it again to hear it from the Greek people and see how you make your choices, the government has led to the resignation of the chairman of the committee? In a committee aimed at defending human rights, the LGBTK will have five votes, the Roma three, the women one, the disabled one, the health of no one, the environment no one, the culture of no one. That's inequality. It repeals the principle of equality and representation. We have proposed that it be drawn, rotated, not five, i.e. at the same time that women have one vote to have five LGBTQs. How do we do it? Is that so hard? You cannot deal with this with wisdom. I repeat, but you know, you have made your choices. Your choices are five LGBTKI, a woman, a disabled person, no health sector, no environment, no cultural sector, and no human rights. You have made your choices and the Greek people will make their choices, and of course we will see them in the polls, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u233	The questions have not been answered, Mr President, at least what has been raised from our point of view since this morning. I'll try to be concise. I pointed out my objections to the reform of the law. Mr. Lappas noted that the meaning of Law 4048/2012, which says in the article that the responsibilities are defined. I shall reply to him, however: Article 18 states that 'the definition of the criteria according to which the legislation is proposed on a case-by-case basis rather than simple codification'. It is therefore something different to reform from codification and so questions remain. Secondly, with regard to the draft law: we have already expressed our objections at the first time to the intervention of the National Committee on Human Rights, which has been justified, that there should be prior consultation not only but that a provision should be drawn up which imposes the opinion. I will not say again that it must be binding, but I will say that, in order to meet the demands of the Paris clauses, it must impose its previous opinion and consideration. So we have reached our negative vote on the bill. Of course, there are also amendments now and I shall start in the short term. Mr Kozobol and Mr Lappa need a reply. The Minister can accept it. We will vote for it because it is about opening up accounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u234	Well, then?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u235	Listen a little, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u236	Is that a Cuvet?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u237	Yes, we have a word, Mr President. That is why, in order to have a debate, it has a second paragraph on which no one has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u238	Let it happen. We've got three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u239	It has a second paragraph. Until 30 September 2019, by decision of the President of the Parliament and of the Ministers, a single rule of procedure for the verification of an asset statement shall be laid down. Why is time so long? What's going on? Is there any need to settle in the intervening period a number of 'whereabouts'? We are talking today, 4 April, and the President of Parliament is invited on 30 September. We think it's a suspect. We will vote for it because it is about opening up accounts, but we will monitor its implementation. It is, of course, a ministerial amendment, and there is no doubt. Colleagues cannot count in the six months or the quarter that Mr Voutissis needs to issue the specifications. I therefore want answers to that if the Minister accepts it. Is this a time for settling loose ends? I'm hanging up with this. Then, to be brief, we have the forest maps. We have mentioned, Mr President, and I have also referred to the committee. We are voting for the amendment on forest maps. There is still our point, that completely craftsmanship, if you like, the Ministry of the Environment simply gives extensions. And extensions have no real object until it solves the concept of vegetarians. Half Greece at the moment, at least the island Greece, has a problem with a 2016 decree, which gave a different meaning and non-forestry made them still forested. I called on Mr Famello to the committee and he said that he would consider it, but of course he claimed that there was a decision of the Council of State. That's not accurate. There is a simple, practical opinion from the Council of State, and it is not binding on the Ministry. We're watching it for the future. However, we are voting for the amendment so that our fellow citizens will not lose any time. As far as transport equivalents are concerned, we have said so, Mr President. We believe that the recognition of the status of island and Crete was a perseverance of my own and of my colleague Kegeroglou. It extends, but it's a cowardly arrangement for the transport equivalent. At least as far as the islands are concerned is a coward. In any case, let us start by voting on it. I have to say it. Another issue has of course also been raised, which I will be extremely brief, on the subject of the Ministerial Amendment on health expenditure. It is not the first time, Mr President, that we have to 'possibly' legitimise expenditure which has been or is to be undertaken by the EEA until 30-6-2019. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Yes, to legalise EEAS expenses relating to hospitals, which relate to the provision of health services. However, why should an amendment to the legalisation of expenditure be tabled every time? There is no regulation, so that we know what is lawful and what is not? And I want to say something else. With a heavy heart, we will vote on this amendment. Do you know why, Mr. President? Because we normally had to deny our vote. Since, however, it also includes the provision of special treatment services, it is a great void that is held in Greek reality. In other words, the public cannot fully cover the special treatment services and the private sector also covers them. Of course, it's paid sometimes and it's not paid. But since that is the case, we will support this amendment. To conclude, I have nothing to say but this: once again, Mr President, to see how a technology in principle appears, it is assumed, a piece of legislation has come to create developments from the insistence - in the morning I have also given the word 'persistence' - of the Government to impose its position without dialogue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kozobol has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I am really sorry for the distortion of reality on the part of the New Democracy, which has given this government a landscape that has been completely mined, with 25% of the property of Greek citizens falling, that is, GDP. The New Democracy talks about GDP today, which gave it a 25% reduction in the five years from 2010 to 2015. Since 2014 all bank deposits have been made in a coordinated manner and have stayed where the banks remained. The agricultural loan has been closed not only by their parties, but also by the loans of the 'days' and the media, which had to be savage to them, so that they could be in the position that they have been all over the years. And now they're talking about what they said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u242	How much banks do today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u243	Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u244	Please, Mrs. Vulge.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u245	How much is the banks worth today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u246	You know very well! I shall return to the bill, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u247	Please, Mrs. Vuldesis, have you spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u248	How much is the banks worth today? They're worth 3.6 billion. You've ruined them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u249	First of all, for today's bill, its main part, namely the first nine articles, I will only say one word. Not only the intention, but also the way the Central Coding Committee is legislating again, enables us to hope for better results, more efficient management of the subject that it takes on two elements. Firstly, because it can make a reform of the law, not just public codification and classification. The definition of the reform is clearly defined in Articles 1 and 11 of Law 4048. Secondly, it is part of a comprehensive strategic draft codification of the laws adopted in 2016. I just want to say a word about Article 10 of the second part of the bill. With all due respect to the ECHR and its work for the twenty years since its establishment and its President, Mr Stavropoulos, taking into account everything that has been said today and Mrs Logan's letter, I would like to say that despite our persistent questions in the committee which worked out the draft bill and despite the fact that I read very carefully the letter of resignation of Mr Stavroupoulou, but also Mrs Logan's letter of resignation, I have not been convinced of anything that Mr Stavropoulos said in his letter and his letter, as to what is being done by a committee that defends human rights. Also, what is the reason why the committee can be degraded by alpha and go to beta? What further reason can bring about a reduction in the credibility and overall functioning of a group defending specific rights areas or a documentary committee defending rights? And I say this really with a lot of regret, because Mr Stavropoulos says in that letter, instead of saying exactly what is the reason why he resigns, he mentions the EUR 40 of the compensation that is small, he mentions offices that are not suitable. I don't know what it is now. Is the government's indifference? Is the fact that the government said to have intervened? Because it's two contradictory things. Either he cares or he intervenes. Finally, Mrs Logan's letter has been made without information from Mrs Logan about exactly what is going on. She says in her letter that she was informed by the letter of the President of the ECHR. And he says he's worried. That's what he says. He doesn't say anything else. He says he's worried and he's calling for a consultation. Why is it 'bolt' and'shack', as they say in the media, that letter? And, in any case, let someone explain to us why it is not in the Paris authorities the particular thing that is being done. I would like to say a word about the amendment we tabled. Mr Karras referred to deadlines for normalization, etc. This isn't about it. The deadlines are to unify the 'whereabouts' procedure. That is the spirit of the whole amendment, of the entire provision you have proposed, Mr President. This unifys the process and is more transparent and speeds up, because I told you that some authorities have asked for it and some have not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall only refer to one amendment - because I do not have the time to refer to more - which I would like to welcome. This is the Health Ministry's amendment, Mr President, which restores the suffering of parents and children in special treatment, which will now be compensated for their treatments in the way it has been in force so far, until the Single Code of Provisions has been adapted electronically and all the providers of these treatments are certified and incorporated into the new regulation, which lays down rules. Mr President, I am saying this because, with this technical problem and the suffering with the providers, who have not been involved with the Ministry, all the work of this government on special education and special education has been carried out, which is too great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and two teachers attending from the 2nd Gymnasium of Egypt. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with the following point: In a revulsion of the New Democracy spokesman, New Democracy acknowledged that New Democracy is a make-up producer. I think that's an interesting confession. It will serve us in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u252	Where did I say that? Fake news again?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u253	You said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u254	We were talking about the media.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u255	All right, Mrs. Swimming.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u256	Since, he says, SYRIZA produces make news, we also produce make news.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u257	What do you say, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u258	Come on, Mrs. Vulture. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u259	In any case, this is an extremely interesting confession from your side. We'll use it in the future. We will have the opportunity to discuss this again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u260	Take another day with the Skopje for the make news.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u261	Look, here we have the perseverance...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u262	The lie yours has no limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u263	Please, Mrs. Vulge. We heard you before carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u264	But it distorts me, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u265	...in a far right, in an extreme rhetoric, in a rhetoric...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u266	We didn't let him out. The media took him out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u267	But what's that now? We're in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u268	...which fits perfectly in the newly mutated extreme right New Democracy. It is precisely this type of political dialogue that the New Democracy is seeking. For simply trying to have a programme debate, what will be done will be the following: When the New Democracy presents its programming views on the future of society, on the future of the state, on the immediate response of anyone, it will either creep or run away. Therefore, it is precisely for this reason that the political practice of yellowism, parapoliticalization, lies and a constant devaluation of the political quality of dialogue is chosen. Even when we come to political controversy, the criticism is the least and epically clumsy, in the sense that we have heard the representative of the New Democracy in an analysis which has involved legislative acts within three minutes, negotiation, capital controls, deposits, bond, GDP, all together. The new Republic should be a little more careful, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when it makes reference to GDP. In the period 2012-2014, the total GDP reduction in the country was 15%. And today New Democracy comes to teach the government about the event...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u269	Is it 15% or 25%? It's 25%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u270	Since the beginning of the crisis, it is 25%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u271	Listen to me, Mr. President. I'm very careful about what I'm saying. Between 2012 and 2014, we had 14% reduction. Add 11% in the previous two years. You got 25%. So I made too expensive...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u272	And then what? In 2016, what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u273	Mrs Vultesis, since you want to have a dialogue, then the following happened: the country in August 2018 came out of the memorandum. The minimum wage has risen. At the moment, the Greek bond has been negotiating on secondary markets with a low 15-year period, while the five-year bond has been in its lowest yield since the Greek curve, i.e. since 1997. These are, therefore, our results, these are the results of government policy, the fact that society is being rebuilt, the social state is being reconstructed, the workers are being strengthened in terms of their negotiating power and their income. And we insist in politics at last that this society be held up and set foot on its feet. I think that when we are faced with this level, the only thing left in New Democracy is silence. I now come to the debate on the amendments and the way in which this government is legislated. Look, I made an analysis in my protology, explaining that the various amendments which are presented as bills also relate to the legislative way in which public administration operates. In order to be able to deal with this issue, a long-term strategy for administrative reform is needed, that is, a strategy that cannot produce results from one day to the next. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] However, it is another thing, that is to say, that amendments which resolve individual issues of the day-to-day administrative function and the daily administrative procedure should come, and it is quite different that three hundred and thirteen amendments should come within one night and that this Parliament should be voted on in the hands of Mr Samaras. So the political group of three hundred thirteen amendments overnight does not have the right to draw lessons of good legislation to the SYRIZA Government!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u274	What night was that? Tell us a date.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u275	I'm continuing with the CSR. There was a debate on the independence of the committee and whether and whether this legislative initiative affects or affects, if you like, the independence of the committee. The answer was quite clear: the Paris authorities have been respected, in the sense that I have explained before. What do the Paris authorities anticipate? They provide for something that is very specific, namely that the committee's composition should be changed by legislation. What for? It must not be the responsibility of changing the composition of the committee to executive power, but to legislative power. This procedure has just been followed. There is therefore no bypass of the Paris authorities anywhere. As far as the question of the previous consultation, which is also raised in ENNHRI's letter, is concerned, the committee was informed and debated with representatives of the committee, including its chairman, on the intentions of the government to extend the committee. From there on, the committee itself decided, if you wish, to deny any dialogue and consider it, which does not result from its founding text - I mean its founding legal text, its founding law - that it alone has the power to extend itself. Here we have a completely mistaken idea of how things are going and about the arrangements of the Paris authorities, but also about the arrangements of the Greek law. Even the question of consultation is not correct, and, as I have said in my introduction, in my protology, we will clarify this in the clearest way and internationally, after the debate has been chosen to become international. Of course, too many criticisms have been heard. I repeat that the reason why we extend the National Union for Human Rights to these organisations is that we want participation in the committee and those who are discriminated against. And here I want to make a comment. Of course, there may be different opinions, there may be different perceptions, different perspectives. However, this government does not take criticism of human rights being discredited by the former government and political staff, which was dismantling positive women in the media. As far as 'avoided' is concerned, on the point of labelling made on the part of the representative of the Change Movement, I would like to say that the checks do not stop. The point is that a reasonable time is given to the House and to the President of Parliament, so that we can standardise the way in which we check. That doesn't mean the checks are stopping. This does not mean that the Commission "Everywhere Extreme" stops to carry out the checks and exercise its responsibilities. I'm closing up with the Central Coding Committee. I have tried to explain - but it seems that there are political purposes, which lead to the refusal in fact to hear arguments and to have a debate in depth - that this piece of legislation came on a proposal from the Central Committee for Codification, which is made up of excellent lawyers, judges, university professors. Its president is an excellent and judge and professor of Administrative Law, Mr. Symonides, who we must thank for his efforts in the preparation of this bill. This is not just a government initiative. This is an initiative by the government, which comes at the instigation of the Central Committee for Codification, so that we can facilitate it in the work it takes and which is extremely important for the proper functioning of the administration, for citizens to be able to access the legal texts, for the possibility of more effective operation of the administration itself, in that the legible legislation does not only help citizens, but also helps the State to speed up its procedures and so on. It really makes me a very bad impression that the legislative initiative has attempted to politicize this type of type in a way that does not fit and does not respect, if you like, the trouble of the extremely important and distinguished legal persons who have taken part in the drafting of this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u276	Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u277	In this sense, I think it is a bill which goes further than our efforts and our strategy for modernising and rationalising Greek legislation, and, in that sense, I urge this House to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u278	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the State Secretary of State is closed: 'Recommendation, establishment and responsibilities of the Central Codification Committee and other provisions'. We move on to vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, twelve articles, four amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, until the vote is completed, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Gymnasium of Egypt (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u280	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u281	Consequently, the draft law of the Minister of State: ‘Recommendation, establishment and responsibilities of the Central Coding Committee and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u283	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-04-S1-commons.u284	With the consent of the House at 15.40 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, April 5, 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
