ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: ‘I hereby inform you of the topical and urgent questions raised in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, that on Monday 21 October 2019 the current questions to be answered are as follows: The question under number 100/15-10-2019 will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy Mr. The question under number 109/15-10-2019 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. The question under number 112/15-10-2019 will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Please take the appropriate steps to inform both the President of the proceedings and the Members of Parliament.’. So we begin the debate with the first under number 100/15-10-2019 on the first question from the Prime Minister of Corfu of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: 'Announcing its No. 3113.11/40369/07-06-2018 Ministerial Decision to increase port charges on ships operated by Igoumenitsa - Corfu and Igoumenitsa - Lefkimi”. Mr. Biagi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to thank you for your presence here today. I basically took the initiative to ask you some questions about the ferry Corfu - Igoumenitsa. As you can see, it is a very important part of what concerns Corfu, that is to say the correct operation of the ferry Corfu - Igoumenitsa, not forgetting that this is an island and, most importantly, that it has no other point in being able to approach it, beyond this particular port, which is Igoumenitsa. It is therefore about both the line Igoumenitsa - Corfu and the line Igoumenitsa - Lefkimis. Minister, we are discussing today an issue that has been confronted by both the Corfu Regional Council and the Municipal Council, the shipping companies, the Port Fund of the Igoumenitsa Port Agency and Corfu. In fact, it is an issue that requires a immediate solution, as it is linked to tourism, essentially with the visitability of our island, as tourism, both for Corfu and for the entire domestic economy, is a key source. If we take account of all of the above considerations and of the heavy damage that tourism has suffered in relation to the bankruptcy of 'THOMAS COOK', you understand how necessary it is to stand above the problem and give any solutions we can. It concerns, Minister, number 3113.11/40369/07-06-2018 Ministerial Decision of the previous government, the Government of SYRIZA, which approves the amendment of a tax regulation on the rights of the Port Authority Igoumenitsa. In other words, the balance sheet of port fees and allowances is being modified not at 6.5% - and here it is, if you like, the important part of our question - on the net fare of the ticket, that is to say either the reduced discount or the zero, but at the same rate as that of the most expensive fare, regardless of discounts. This is only the case on the line Igoumenitsa - Corfu and Igoumenitsa - Lefkimis. In the previous scheme the calculation of port charges and rights was calculated at 6,5%, but depending on the amount of the net fare and not the maximum price of the ticket currently calculated. In other words, to be clearer, I have a specific table on the increase in port fees and documents, Minister. I'll testify for the Minutes. As is clear from the table, which I will present to you, the port fees for a passenger on the route Igoumenitsa - Corfu, which amounted to EUR 0.54, in the new way of calculating the price was made at 0.80. They increased, that is, by 48%. Also, for the route Igoumenitsa - Lefkimis, the charge of port charges for the passenger was 0.24 and in the new way amounts to 0.80. I mean, we're talking about an increase of 324%! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Biagis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The specific way in which port charges are calculated, Mr Minister, no longer enables companies to exercise any, if they want, a discount policy nor to take account of the possibilities, where necessary due to diversity, to have reduced tickets for people who have to go free. This is because the Igoumenitsa Port Authority was obviously unable to check the publication and the amounts by which tickets are issued. It came from the 'quantitative' that we were at 'per capita' before. In fact, at the moment, there is an amount that they have to pay for both passengers and passengers. It has no longer to do with percentages, but it has to do with the maximum amount at which the tariff is fixed. The change in this particular way, therefore, of the fees and allowances referred to above from 6.5% on the net fare before deductions to a net amount simultaneously creates many problems for the passenger public, as it obliges, Minister, directly, shipowners not to apply discounts to passenger and vehicle tickets. This change in the calculation of the fees and charges referred to above conflicts with the principle of equal treatment, since the fees and allowances on other ferry services are calculated by 6.5% on the net fare and not on the fare. Corfu is treated more favourably than other islands, which should also benefit from the direct application of the transport equivalent. Furthermore, the application of this measure may cause social disturbance both in southern Corfu and in all the inhabitants of the island. Finally, the change in the method of calculation actually makes it difficult for all of us to work on the island's tourism development, as well as the fact that, if you want to, a profit from the transport equivalent, Minister, given that the companies also find an excuse to increase, if necessary, the fares. For all these reasons, the question, on the one hand, is whether you intend to amend this Ministerial Decision and, on the other hand, whether it is your intention to exercise something uniform and more just in relation to port fees and those of the Igoumenitsa Port Authority and the Port Authority, which take into account all the particularities I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u3	The timely question will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis. Mr. Plakyotakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Biagi for his question, because he offers me the opportunity but also the opportunity to clarify some of the things concerning port charges, not only for the port of Igoumenitsa but also for the general port of Igoumenitsa. The calculation of port charges must be based on three main axes: first of all, the level of port charges must be reciprocity for users in each port, the determination should be done in an absolutely objective way and, of course, the possibility of direct and absolute control must be guaranteed. This is practically the roadmap that we will follow for the determination of port fees for each organisation and for each port or state port fund, so that, in cooperation with the port agencies concerned, we can determine the level of port fees. Now, with regard to your question, KYA under number 8122/50 of 2014 - and I am referring to the joint Ministerial Decision of the Finance Ministers, but also to Maritime and Island Policy - was amended by the Joint Ministerial Decision, as you rightly say, 3113.11/40369/7-6-2018. How did that happen? At the request of the Board of Directors of the Igoumenitsa Port Authority, which requested the amendment of the tariff regulation, and in particular the adjustment of passenger and vehicle charges for both destination categories above and below twenty-five nautical miles. Since, of course, the relevant services of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, namely the Port Policy Directorate, and the Budget and Economic Information Directorate, have been agreed, the joint ministerial decision has been amended. Now, what's the data for now? You are well aware - in the Council of State by shipping companies operating on the ferry line Igoumenitsa - Corfu. This court has been identified for 13-11-2019, so we expect this decision, which you understand is binding. So one given is that. The second presumption we need to take into account is that we are awaiting a recommendation from the new administration of the Igoumenitsa Port Authority and after it has been consulted with the local institutional representatives and bodies on the new level of port charges. I must also reply to you that we do not have any new request from the new administration of the Port Authority in order to establish a new price for port fees. Therefore, taking into account, firstly, the decision to make on the appeal to the Council of State on 13-11-2019 and, secondly, the new decision of the new Board of Directors of the Igoumenitsa Port Agency, both of these parameters, we will now take our final decisions if and if and when the port fees are to be adjusted. We are obviously aware of the reasons. There is now a need for objective definition of port fees not only for the port of Igoumenitsa, but for the whole of the country's ports and we are in a process that is more objectively defined in terms of the price of port fees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Biagi, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u6	Minister, thank you very much for your reply. If I may, in addition to the absolute respect I will show in your reply and in the view that we will await the decision of the Council of State, in order to see what will be decided, I would once again like to address you to the floor, saying that beyond any percentage increase there is in the ports of Corfu - Igoumenitsa, what has actually made this increase unbearable is the way in which these port charges are calculated. I believe that this way of calculating port fees is something unprecedented for all the ports of Greece. And whether or not we are actually waiting for the decision of the Council of State whether or not these port fees exist, you may be able to see politically the mistake of how the port fees of the Igoumenitsa Port Authority are calculated. And I say 'incorrect', Minister, for the reason that we have now stopped talking about percentages on net fares to be given as fees at the port of Igoumenitsa, but we are essentially talking about per capita tax. We're talking about the tickets that are cut off, forgetting any, if you like, the difference in tickets reduced, children's tickets under the age of four, zero, AME tickets, tickets from soldiers or students. There is no possibility of calculation and percentage, if you want, a reference, so that port charges can be paid, but there is a per capita tax, which reminiscent of other times. And, in essence, passengers crossing Igoumenitsa to Corfu count at one and only percentages, the same IX, the same public lorries, as the final amount is charged. Furthermore, it no longer gives the opportunity, Minister, to use this method of calculation to even companies, if you want, to come and make proposals with a higher discount, to contact students for the trips or other groups of people and to offer lower tickets. It plays essentially, if you want, the very game of companies by not allowing them to play as well as the real value they should give to the market, society and tickets. I think that, in addition to the respect that we all have to show to the institutions and, in particular, to a court called upon to take a decision on this matter, the way in which it is calculated is an extremely political matter, Minister, and it has nothing to do with yesterday's or the current Board of Directors of the Igoumenitsa Port Agency or the Port Authority of Corfu. It is about the simple analogue and the difference that this port, the port of Igoumenitsa, has chosen to pass the percentages and count them in order to get the money he had in mind to get. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding. And don't forget, as you quite rightly said, Minister, that these, if you like, port fees, the first thing that should have been the reward for the passenger, the client. There is no such recompense. Although we have increases that reach both 200% and 300%, there is no return to the client. As long as I mention the tragic images. In fact, there are neither urea nor waiting positions for passengers. There's nothing. So the only thing we care about is cutting off the raisin - because we are talking about raisins, per capita income - so that every administration of the port does its policy, with what that implies, Minister. And I am talking about the policy of yesterday's administration and in the hope that today's administration will not continue that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mr. Placiotakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u8	My colleague has raised another problem, which we inherited from the previous SYRIZA government. What do we intend to do? A committee has already been set up under the Secretary-General of Ports and Port Policy to determine, in an objective way, the amount of port fees. Because you are well aware that there are different levels of port fees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u9	As long as the definition is objective...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u10	Be careful, there are port agencies, there are municipal port funds, there are state port funds. What do we want? We want this definition to be objective and rewardable. You have quite rightly said that port charges are reciprocating. So what are we going on? First of all, we are moving towards modernising the country's ten major regional ports. What do we do? In cooperation with the TIAD we proceed with sustainability assessments and our aim is to modernise and upgrade our country's regional ports by ensuring investments, revenues for the state budget and jobs. In other words, we believe that our country's regional ports - and also the wider ports of our country - can really be a lever of development at both local and regional levels and, of course, at national level. So we believe that objective reasons should be put in place and that the level of port fees should be determined and, of course, in reply again to your question, we are also waiting for the decision of the Council of State, which will be dealt with on 13-11-2019 and the suggestions made by the new administrations of the agencies and Igoumenitsa and Corfu on the new level of port fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the second question under number 109/15-10-2019 of the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Studies of students and students". Mr. Delia, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, today's question could be said that it is a continuation of another we discussed here about ten days ago on the question of student accommodation. Our question today concerns the question of student relocations. It is a very serious matter and it tortures thousands of people's families whose children are studying away from home. First of all, we have to say here that applications for relocations are being made late this year, since the system of submission of applications opened on 16 October and will run until 27 October, that is to say, several days after the start of the academic year. Until they have been judged, in the meantime, by these students who have applied for their relocation, they have no access at all, neither to feeding nor to writings, and most of the time - I imagine that you know it - with responsibility, of course, of the foundations and administrations of the departments, they are even excluded from this course follow-up, even from workshops. We remember here that this whole process of delays and exclusion had led several of these students who requested relocation in the past six months to finally lose their studies in the winter. We hope - and we demand, at the same time - that this should not be repeated this year. Once again, Mr Minister, what are we watching, what do we see? The same unacceptable situation that students, both old and young, have to face - with fewer seats in the halls. The evidence suggests that only nine percent of students are entitled to a room in the homes, and that usually is in terrible conditions. They have to deal with high-priced, but also poor rents now. In short, they have to deal with expensive studies. These, of course, are the reasons that fuel the phenomenon of thousands of applications for student relocation. So we ask you, Minister, what measures will you take so that, first of all, the translations can be completed immediately and as quickly as possible, but, with extended income criteria, not with what SYRIZA has put forward and where you are continuing. We welcome here the amendment that he had tabled to the debate on the EMCDDA in one of Mr Gavroglou's bills, where we said that the income criterion should be EUR 25 000 for each family, increased by EUR 5,000 for each child. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second question we ask is what you will do so that no student does not lose his half-monthly or workshop due to delays in the transcripts. The third question we are asking you - and take note, because it has emerged in recent years - is what you will do, Minister, to make the correlations between the sections that have emerged from the so-called 'universities' and to do so immediately, without delays and without doubt no pretexts. What are you going to do to remove the record of students from the families of the unemployed, from multiple families or with disability problems? Not all of these can be subject to deafening and income criteria. In any case, even this 15% very plaque, which has entered and which has been generalised - I think on your own responsibility, I mean your government - will have to stop. In conclusion - and I thank you, Mr President - we ask you what you are going to do so that measures are taken on what we are talking about, on the essential, real upgrading of studies, on support for the programmes of study, namely, what you will do, Minister, to finance, on the basis of the funds for higher education, so that the problem of post-registration can also be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Delis. The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Dygalakis, will answer. Mr. Digalakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, your question is very timely and I am pleased that I am given the opportunity to say a few things about the relocations in the most official way here in Parliament. I would therefore like, in addition to the answers to the questions you have raised, to inform the citizens of what happened this year in the relocations. First of all, I would like to say that the process of the relocations began in time this year, on 16 October, despite the enormous problems we have encountered, which I shall refer to next, and is currently developing smoothly. So far, on the electronic platform on which students enter and apply for relocation, six thousand three hundred seventy applications have been submitted and five thousand four hundred forty-five of them have been finalised. This concerns the applications made. For the rewrites of brothers, there have been two thousand thirty - thirty - one applications, of which two thousand thirty - four have been finalised. The evidence is from this morning. As far as the exceptional relocations are concerned, to solve various problems, this year the process will take place after the relocations of the previous categories and will take place electronically for the first time, so that the whole process can be speeded up. For all this, I would like to thank and congratulate the Ministry's services, which have worked very quickly so that they can deal with the many problems we have inherited and also make the necessary adjustments for increased interoperability requirements. I would also like to thank the ADI, but also the academic Internet, the "G.U. NET, which responded directly to our requests for interoperability with their systems. As far as your questions are concerned, I will start with the reference you have in your question that our Government has tightened the criteria regarding the right to apply for relocations. That doesn't come from anywhere. You know, I imagine, that the framework that is being applied was inherited to us by the previous SYRIZA government and we consciously chose not to make a 'cut-off', not to change this framework at the time the procedures of the computer, the records and the bases had begun. We didn't want to change that frame all of a sudden. Moreover, this would probably also create issues of nullity of relocations and appeals. That doesn't mean we agree. So, in the context of the dialogue, which we have started with the academic community and partners, we intend to reform the context of the relocations in terms of the fairest, the most objective, but without prejudice to the level of study, causing overcrowding to the Centre's HEIs and dissociating regional institutions. With regard to the issues that you raise about problems in matching, you are well aware that accounting is the previous leadership, which a few days before the elections - namely on 1 July 2019 - proceeded and issued the matching of the departments. Indeed, by their own law - in particular paragraph 13 of Article 21 of Law No.4332 - the Minister of Education must, by 30 May at the latest, publish these correspondence in FEK. So it was a very long delay a few days before the elections and a few days before the computer was started. These correlations cannot be altered retrospectively, because together with the institutional framework in force at the time the computer is started, it sets out an overall framework which cannot be changed once the process of computer submissions is started. I would also like to refer to the communication from the SYRIZA Education Sector a few days ago, in particular the expression 'Rotina procedures in respect of relocations'. This has given me particular impression and basically expresses ignorance, because when you legislate manually, without taking into account all the implications of the relevant provisions and making rough changes to the country's academic map in a false and clipboard, all this creates the problems that we have found before us. They had the delusion that you might just give orders and then the ministry services and the universities will implement your distorting legislation, without problems, which is not true. Specific examples are: With regard to the provisions of Laws 4559, 4589 and 4610, these legislations on the mergers of universities of higher education prohibited the transfer of students from the former TEI to those from the second year onwards. The students, therefore, also troubled their families with these policies and these rough legislations. Now, with regard to routine procedures, I would like to refer to some of the interoperability problems that we have faced. First of all, the relocation system was not prepared to provide for the separate parent tax statements that required interoperability with the AIA. There was no interoperability with other oversight schools. They did not provide for the major interoperability issues that were raised by the mergers of students at universities and their inclusion in students' journals, i.e. electronic registries of these universities. For all this, then, there had been no study. We have all been called upon to deal with this. We have dealt with them in the first few days responsibly, without any interest in micro-political tactics and pressures. We worked, we found solutions to the problems. That is why the relocations started this year at the same time as last year. Now some other issues. Mr Delis, it is proposed that the 15% cap should be abolished. Obviously, you are ignoring the decision of the Council of State which defines a specific plaque in the translations. Let's see a script together. For example, in Athens Medical, where a hundred and sixty-five students are introduced, transfer hundreds of students from the other medical establishments in Greece. What do you think? Can this school provide quality education? Realist and responsible policy is on the one hand to ensure facilities for students and their families, and the translations are one way but, at the same time, to ensure the level of study provided by each university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u15	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mr. Delis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u16	Our question, of course, Minister, and it is timely, but your answer so far is disappointing, for those who are listening to us, for students in need of relocation. It proves that your own policy is too far from the needs of students and their families. Why, you know, Minister? The rejection of the transfer of thousands of students - because that is where we are driving with mathematical accuracy this year and with two cuts in operation, as I will say below - which are in need of them, in our view, is a serious, very serious social problem, since the cost of the studies is today an important class barrier, for many and an insurmountable class barrier, so that they can be educated. And what are you doing against this issue? At the same time as the figures show - official figures, published - that many students leave their studies in the first year, because they cannot withstand this unbearable cost of study, your government, like the previous SYRIZA, is stricting - and we insist that we say so, Mr Minister - now even more the right to relocate in my concept - and I explained it in my prototype - that the 15% plaque is being generalised and extended, whose implementation, if you like, has had a greater flexibility in previous years. And as if that were not enough - because he is the first cutter, the big one - a second cut comes. This year, the question of not matching the new sections will be added. Of course, you blamed all the government of SYRIZA, the presidential decree that had to come out in May and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I think if you really want to, then you can deal with it. You have all the legislative tools in your hands, so that this issue can be overcome and the new departments can be matched, because of the universities - anyway, in many cases, the word 'university' - with the former ones being able to apply for re-registration. You know, there are departments that come from former TEIs with the same or similar scientific objects as other departments, which in practice never became universities, as evidenced, since they are not matched by any other university department. We also have phenomena - it is something I learned today and I will announce it in this Chamber - and cases such as a student from Patras who, although belonging to a large family, is forced, precisely because of this lack of correspondence of departments, without being able to attend lessons from her school in the Dumotich, from Patras, that is, to go to the Dumotich. The impality and suffering of these students and their families, I think, is far too great, is indiscriminate and, finally, all this well-advertised university of the TEIs like the other, the unforgettable PASOK of 2001, is nothing but an even greater classification of the departments and studies, with a view to what else? The cheap, flexible scientific potential. You, New Democracy, may not have voted for these laws, but you apply them well. Why? Because it's in your strategy too. After all, these laws of Mr.Gavroglou were in fact a reopening of the "ATHENA" project under other conditions. It continues because it is in your own educational policy, except that this policy is paid by the children of the people's families. That is why we are now asking you, Minister, to find a way to resolve this issue with the matchings, because students cannot pay your own designs. Moreover, because you insinuate it, we reject the reasoning that students consider something to be a burden on schools and departments. It can't-- it says-- everybody's picking up somewhere. What if there's a need? What if they can't study? We reject this logic, which is also handled by the Ministry in a lateral way, but also by many schools and departments. Anyway, can we offer you something? Cut some of the billions that you give the naval equipment - which is not too little - cut a few of the millions you give the development packages, cut a few of the millions you give the recapitalisation. Return, Minister, the reserves of the universities which the Greek State enthusiastised a few years ago, so that the studies can really be upgraded, that more teachers can come, that the schools can respond to the higher weight they will have from the relocations. In any case, if you wish, and in our previous debate on the student roof, give you, Minister, and a housing allowance at the height of the rent to these students, since we all know that there can be no student homes tomorrow. Do all this. We're asking you to do this, but they're asking you to do this, and they're going to ask you to be more and more intensely, and the students with their struggles and their claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Digalakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, there are many issues coming up, so please a little bit for your understanding of the time. You know that a few days ago the Ministry of Education announced that an exceptional grant was granted to universities EUR 12.5 to meet needs. I would like to add a few details. In the 2019 budget, EUR 40 million has been entered for grants to educational institutions to support families with children studying away from home, EUR 56 million for grants to educational institutions for student care costs and EUR 78 million for grants to INEDIBIM. As far as teaching staff are concerned, there have been hundreds of fifty ICP posts in institutions arising from university mergers and former TEIs, another five hundred TEI posts in all the educational institutions of the country and an additional two hundred eighty of the eighty-six additional posts of temporary teaching staff and other posts also involving exceptional teaching staff. On the subject of the outbreaks, which we have discussed in your previous question, I will refer you to the answer I had given there. I would like to point out again: I told you in my prototype that nothing has changed in the institutional framework of the relocations by the Government of New Democracy for the reasons I mentioned earlier and could not change. You raised a point of matching, that is, we could now come to change the section matches. This, Mr Delis, cannot be done because when a student makes the statement in which departments he wants to go, he takes into account the correspondence of the departments. So if you come back and change these matches, it will be vulnerable to appeals and applications for invalidity, because each candidate - and rightly so - will come to tell you "I sir, when I submitted my computer in July, I did not know that there could be these matches and I could be transferred to one or the other part". Finally, you are confusing the question of the universityisation of a department with the matching of departments. Essential Universityization is the one you have the means and level of study that will enhance the quality of study in a department. This can't be stacked in a department that, for example, has laboratory exercises and where it can serve a hundred students, put it two hundred, because what you'll achieve will be that you don't train any of the two guys and make fun of the two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much. The MP of Cyclades, Mr. Nicos Srmalene, seeks permission from absence abroad for the period 25-10-19 to 29-10-19, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u20	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Parliamentarian SYRIZA B1' North Sector George Karougalos seeks permission from abroad from 23-10-2019 to 29-10-2019, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u21	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Catherine Papakosta - Palioura, Member of the Trikala Law, seeks permission from abroad from 22-10-2019 to 24-10-2019 to participate in a mission of the New Democracy Party in Germany. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u22	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We move on to the last topical question today, namely the third with number 112/15-10-2019, a topical question from the first cycle of the MP of Heraklion, Mera25 Mr. Georgiou Logiadis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Supposition due to a lack of teachers in Kasos High and High School". Mr. Logiadis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we were informed at Mera25 and I personally as a member of the Committee on Island and Mountain Areas of the Parliament that students at Kassos High and High School went on a week ago, on 14-10-2019, in occupation of their school, protesting about the lack of teachers, as you know. In a statement by the President of the Association of Parents and Princess and President of the Municipal Council, Nicoletas Sophila, the President of the Association of Parents and Treasury states that "children can take no more". It is noted that at the school in Kassos there have been no specialities in courses in direction, such as Chemistry, Biology, Informatics, and in English and French courses, and in these courses the students of the Third High School will compete for their admission to university. It should be stressed that on the island there are no parallel structures of education, social schools or training, and the only source of their learning is the public school. I have heard today from other colleagues and the government and other political parties that we have such problems everywhere in Greece. You ask yourself, Minister: what measures does the government intend to take until the positions are met and how long will it take? Will these chronic problems be solved on a permanent basis? Secondly, how will the teaching hours that each student has lost due to a lack of teachers be replaced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Mrs Zacharakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Loyadis, thank you very much for this question. You will allow me, at the moment I am in Parliament today and with your courtesy, to convey a message of solidarity to the teacher who was attacked by a parent in Chania on Friday. It is clear for the Ministry of Education, for the political leadership, and I am sure for the whole educational community that it is currently in agreement with the initial position that any expression of violence is condemned, and I am sure that when a teacher is threatened in the school space. They are behaviours and actions that we all condemn and express our full support for the educational and educational community in Chania. These are behaviours, as I have said, and actions which we would not like to tackle again, but to be sure that we are in every way against such behaviours. For your question. It was indeed a demanding project, Mr. Loyadis, the start of this year and I would like to explain why. There were indeed several gaps resulting from the introduction of four guidelines in the third high school, seven-hour - which means that many needs arise - but at the same time also due to arrangements made by Mr Gavroglou, the previous Minister of Education, which have to do with the reduction of incentives that a substitute teacher might have had to go to remote places. I have heard that you are taking part in this very important committee. I would at some point like to discuss closely and systematically how we can redefine the incentives for our teachers to go to the remote islands, to go to the remotest extremes and to be able to give life to them, which is an unequivocal obligation of the Ministry. I would like you to know that I already speak with the mayors' association of the small islands, the link that exists, with very important proposals, which we will adopt, and the reintroduction of incentives for teachers to go to the distant islands. The double molecules that existed no longer exist. And, of course, let's see what's going on with housing and feeding. We had already contacted Mr. Patoulis at the beginning of the school year so that we could see in full what is happening with the islands and the remote regions. Already many of the islands give incentives to housing and food. I think that we need to systemify it and give a good set of government provisions to substitute teachers and educators who nurse and serve in these difficult places. For Kasso, I'd like to tell you that the Occupational Occupation is over. Temporary solutions have been found. I will tell you what will happen with regard to the permanent coverage of these by teachers. There is not yet for the IT6 for the English class and the reduced French class. A professor was placed in Informatics, and since this lady has a rearing license, a temporary address solution was found and will cover the children up to the next replacement recruitment phase. I would like to inform you what has been done so far from the previous phases of deputy recruitment. The first phase of the recruitment of alternates took place on 5 September. It was a pretty large, very extensive, substitute intake. The next one was on September 30th. We have proceeded with a further process of extracting people who did not accept the position because of these counter-motors that I have told you before, namely the removal of double moleculosis, the incentives that they had to go to remote places. We proceeded to a direct mission of new assistants. I would also like to give you the numbers for Kasso, so that the answer can be complete. Fifty-five teachers were sent to the first phase. In the second phase of sixty-four teachers and a school teacher with a reduced working hours and additional placements, which I told you a moment ago, twenty-eight teachers with a reduced working hours. We proceeded immediately to look for new appropriations. Indeed, they were approved by the Greek Parliament last week. Immediately, we will also proceed to a next phase of subsistence recruitment so that we can move from the temporary one I told you before to the permanent one, so that we can cover the year. You will think - and you are right - that these are not permanent measures. So we will discuss again the framework for the recruitment of substitutes and permanent staff so that it is also the island and mainland Greece, the difficult places, an attractive destination, so that we do not talk about gaps, especially in the universally tested courses and in the entire courses.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Loyades, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much. Of course, we too are against the use of force. We fully agree with you. We are very pleased that, as you have said, this occupation is over. We are happy to be able to contribute to this project in order to solve all these problems, and we are also in our own right. Kassos is an example, but in many other parts of Greece there is the same problem. In a recent interview, Mrs Zacharakis, on television you said: “We speak when we have financial data. This financial information is the prison we are at the moment.’ "We will also go to a package of measures that we can now support." We are therefore talking about the financial information that has been imposed on us. That's the way it is, unfortunately. Spain and Portugal, when they also entered the memoranda, in austerity, were able and excluded health and education from their memoranda. We in Greece, as a multinational country and because of our position, should also exclude security. We have not achieved any of this, so today the wages of these people who serve are very low and cannot live, while the cost of living is very high. This applies to all civil servants serving in remote islands, to remote areas, doctors, security bodies, firefighters and others. How will these people render when working under such conditions? It has been observed that civil servants often sleep in tents. Airbnb has made life harder for them. 35% of deputys who come resign immediately. It takes economic incentives, therefore, for municipalities to help these people find their homes, a rental subsidy and, of course, a double moleculation measure to be applied again, which, as you have said and agreed, has been abolished by the previous government. They are primarily national strategies for these remote islands. We propose and ask for the following: The recruitment procedure for all the alternates must be carried out earlier, as should the changes in the service, so that with the opening up of schools there is no shortage of teachers anywhere. We ask for permanent and mass assignments. We ask for permanentization of substitutes and not unpaid recruitments. We ask for there to be very fast internet everywhere. "We propose to see the real needs of Greece." You said that. It must be constantly up-to-date how many people ultimately are. Did they take over or didn't take over? That is why the self-evident thing needs to be done in 2019, what we have not yet achieved here in Greece. In other words, we do not even know even today, after ten years of crisis, monumental and supposed reforms, who is neither where in the public sector, so that we can be more effective in our positions and in the proper exploitation of the valuable human resources we have. So full mapping of the public sector human resources. Finally, with all due respect, I propose that as a teacher and as a minister when you speak, use sign language as well. Sign language is a matter of dignity, non-exclusion and integration of these people. We invest in education, in schools, in the best of our children, and in the end we see they leave abroad. This is Brain Drain, this is the biggest disinvestment, the biggest disaster in the country, as a result of, of course, the austerity that has been imposed on us, as I mentioned before. In closing, the aim of Diem25, the unique pan-European movement - it is also what completely differentiates us from all of you here - and Mera25 - as its Greek arm - is the abolition of austerity throughout Europe and in Greece, so that we can all live with dignity, as we deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. Mrs Zacharakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Loyade, you say you differ from the rest of the parties in this Parliament. I will tell you, however, that I agree with a lot of what you have said. You have seen the answers, that we are converging on a number of issues, which are self-evident and which have to do with the support of the island policy, the support of the difficult regions, but with a strategy that will govern many policies, will be interactive. So let us go and discuss exactly the measures that - as I have said before - will make attractive these regions in Greece, which need us, and ask us for timely and valid - to meet the needs. On the specific points you raised: Procedure of service changes and the recruitment of alternates: The Minister's declared intention and, obviously, the political leadership is to speed up the service changes of permanent teachers for the following year, so that the recruitment of alternates will be made earlier. This is that 5 and 6 September a man should - or even 30 September and 15 November - take the suitcase and the family and change areas is something that I think we should deal with. And we have to deal with it in a timely manner with these people being informed. You said on the issue of faster school connections. Already the Ministry of Digital Governance along with the Ministry of Education have made progress in upgrading connections from ADSL to VDSL recently and without any cost for the Greek State in fifteen thousand school units. Regarding the update of the data, I inform you that the MY SCHOOL operates. It is an electronic programme, a platform in which data and programmes and teachers are posted, all those serving in the field of education. And from this step I want to focus attention on everyone in the ongoing update of MY SCHOOL, because for us it is a very important tool. You asked a question, which I forgot to answer, and it is about how the programme can be covered, which is now lost in the children. I'm telling you, first of all, that this is a decision of the school teacher club. There is already one proposal, however - because we have spoken with the training director - that is to say, by twenty minutes within the time allowed - we are not going anywhere to derogate - so that it is possible with the cooperation of the school club, with the children, with the agreement of the whole community to cover these school hours that have been lost. So there is a proposal from the training director and we are prepared to go ahead with it. Of course, it is - I repeat - a decision of the Teachers' Association. We agree, Mr Loyade, that education is a very important issue and that it should not become a field of controversy. But above all, it is an area in which, I think, we can find points of consensus. And we are here, so that we can work together on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Kozani High School (first section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-21-S1-commons.u31	With the consent of the House at 18.58 minutes the sitting for the next Wednesday, 23 October 2019, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda.
