ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 6-2-2019, the minutes of its PRACTICE Sessions of Wednesday 6 February 2019 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Definition of the Act of Legislative Content of 31 December 2018, ‘Extension of the possibility of an exemption from main residence under the liquidation of liquidation pursuant to Law 3869/2010 (A' 130), extension of reduced VAT rates in the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios and extension of the measure of “Transport Equivalent” of Law 4551/2018 and other provisions’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin the debate with the second question number 324/4-2-2019 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Aid for temporary retirement to members of the Agricultural Insurance Fund (OGA)’. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Petropoulos, will answer. Please, Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr. President. Minister, my question photographs a real social problem, which concerns not only the members of the former OGA but also other funds that were integrated into the ECA. I am referring, however, to them, because to date, and despite the provisions of your own law, Law No.4387/2016, it is not possible to get a temporary pension for those who have submitted their papers to the old OGA, the current FAO farmers. You are aware of the reasons for this, as I believe you are aware of the objections of the central agency of the ECA farmers to the difficulties in awarding a temporary pension. But here, Minister, we are not here to highlight the difficulties. We are here to provide solutions. And I'm talking about specific cases in which the insured have the conditions laid down by law. However, without it being their own fault, their case goes backwards, beyond the normal expectation of twelve to fourteen months. They are expecting either because there are pending judicial cases between funds and citizens and funds or for some other reasons, which the ECA insurance industry is delaying informing the ECA farmers, when we have parallel or successive insurance, and why the services interpret the same insurance provisions differently. I would like you, Minister, to tell us whether these people can receive an exceptional temporary pension from the ECA farmers, a pension which, for many of them, will be their only income, which they are today deprived of.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Yoyaka, we are also interested in the speedy pension version. I must, however, tell you that temporary pensions to farmers were never given, except when we with Law No4387/16 incorporated farmers in the provision of temporary pensions and granted such pensions. In fact, they are also part of the electronic application platform, which provides 80% of the provisional application for those who submit such an application. We have already given priority to widower farmers' pensions and pensions are issued as a priority in the case of widowhood, because our aim is to strengthen our population in such a bad position, and that is where things are much faster. It is a fact that there are delays. These delays, however, are smaller than in the past. It does not satisfy us that they are smaller than before, but to know what we are talking about, to compare what we have and what we have to achieve. We have reduced the main pensions, the outstanding basic pensions, by 76% compared to those received three and a half years ago. We have reduced them by 68%, by 66%, by 66%. All this work volume is realised that it is not easy to pass, when we have almost half the staff of what was serving in 2010. We are, however, able to do so because we have integrated the individual agencies. Speed will be better in the future. This is illustrated by the fact that in the 12th month 2017 to 2018 we had an increase in productivity in the pension issue by 10% in the main, by 40% in the subsidiary, and the system is being completed and these pensions will be accelerated. The protest is not just on your side. And by SYRIZA Members I hear complaints about the non-preparation of pensions. But we all ignore that OGA pensions were not always paid on 15 July. It is a mistake to say that all pensions were paid on 15 July. On July 15, the OGA law laid down that they should be paid. They are pending and pending pensions for many years. This is because there were debts or incomplete data or there were successive periods of insurance and other entities that did not come to the institution in order to be paid. So to be fair with the institution that we have created - it is a body for all the Greeks - and to support it, so that it can always deliver better results for the insured, we need to know what it is that we have created. It is an institution that unites times and accelerates the issue of pensions. In June we will be in a good position to give you too much positive results for a faster version of the pension scheme as a whole, because that is the trend. The loose ends will be almost zeroed for more than three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u6	Minister, despite all the good intention and good will I have towards you - and you know it - once again you have not given us clear answers. As you and Members of Parliament have said, SYRIZA's colleagues are interested in why there is a real problem and the problem is that unfortunately no former members of the OGA do not give temporary pensions. It is a matter that is particularly afflicting people of the biopale, people who have given their best to the farm, to the ends of the earth, I would say, in areas and under adverse conditions. They cannot, when they complete the cycle and enter the long period of their pension lives, even enjoy these temporary in order to cope with their everyday lives. And that is fair and you understood it with Mr.4387/2016 that you introduced, but unfortunately, Minister, it is not applicable. They could, with a minimum, even EUR 200 - the minimum pension is EUR 320 to farmers - these people could fulfil their basic needs. You very well voted for this law, Minister, but it does not apply, unfortunately. And when there are successive pensions even from abroad many times, these people wait two and three years to get their pension. It is therefore an opportunity to give a solution to this issue. And honestly, it will be a solution that can give breath and breath to these people. With regard to the staff you have said, Mr Minister, this is a big issue. Once again, I would like to congratulate the local OGA in Ioannina, who are making a special effort to cope with the increased needs. However, the staff are incomplete. There have been some movement procedures, which I do not know - and I have told you in the past - why these transfers do not go ahead. I sincerely ask you to take a personal interest in order to get rid of them. Again, by your own law that has been passed, we need to give the solution to these specific transfers so that farmers can move forward as quickly as possible. Honestly, I expect you to be both substantial and effective in order to provide a solution to this permanent request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Yoyaka, in January, a few days ago, about two weeks ago, the organogram of the EFCA was published. This gives us the possibility of real unifications and goes ahead with this plan. The project has been prepared and is now being fulfilled and implemented. Of course, with this unification, we will have better results in successive periods of insurance at different institutions. You are right to identify a problem that exists in general throughout the whole of social security, when we have a successive period of insurance, because there is no integrated in the insured person's file and this insurance time must be collected from different points. These are the achievements that the FBI will have. But the organogram needed to be completed. Indeed, it has been long delayed due to the processing that has been carried out, long-term treatments involving both ECA officials and officials, to be a body that everyone creates together, everyone protects, because it is their creation. This is over. So in the next period - I will have the opportunity to reply and then to Mr Sevastakis' timely question, which concerns a similar issue for the organisation of the EFCA - it goes ahead and is doing a good job. I repeat, however, that temporary pensions to farmers were specifically forbidden. The law allows ours. And I already told you they were granted. Unfortunately, because OPECA was created with OGA executives and we covered the benefits with a new agency created with OGA officials, there especially in the OGA, we had even smaller staffing powers. But this is soon covered and organised, because we will have this unification of the institutions. Let me tell you, however, that it is noted from our information that 30% of farmers' pensions are rejected because they do not qualify either because they are lacking in insurance or because they have debts. And that is a difficult problem that we need to solve. When you give a temporary pension, you must have almost touched the limits of the certainty that this pension will take it. Otherwise, he will be able to return them. And we do not want that to happen, that is to say, to grant pensions which the insured person is then called upon to return, because he cannot. It is a problem that we need to solve. It's a delicate matter and we're looking at it. I think - you will also see - that in the coming months we will have a better development in the granting of pensions, because the systems are also developing. We didn't have systems reliably and at the speed that they should have in the OGA. Only the former IKA had a somewhat system, which operated under the support of 'INTRASOT'. It was a costly system, which was better naturally than other bodies. But as the complete information system moves forward, you know that we will have good results in the future for all and at speed all the insured will be served. We account against the insured. And we're going to do our account again. We're doing it in the House too. We'll do it in the committee. Your control is necessary and useful, because the executives of the EVC are also aware and appalling of the anxiety of the citizens. We're not bothered by control. You do well and ask, so that everyone understands and realizes the need for a faster management of citizens' affairs. And that's what we're gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that Mr Apostle Vesiropoulos, a member of the New Democracy of the Prefecture of Imathia, is asking for a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I inform you that the eighth under number 330/4-2-2019 topical question by the Independent Member of the Evia Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Michou, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Continuance of persecution of the members of the Greek minority in Albania", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Katrugalos. Cause: Disclosed liabilities. Also, the fifth question under number 334/5-2-2019, the second time question by MP II of the Greek Communist Party, Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the attempt to prevent trade union activity and redundancies at Piraeus Bank, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Ahtsoglou. Cause: Workload. The seventh question, under number 337/5-2-2019, on the second question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Problems of workers in business “Zoura””, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Ahchioglou. Cause: Workload. Also, the ninth question under number 315/29-1-2019 of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Independent MEP I, Spyridon Lykoudis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the conditions of living and working for migrants in New Manola after the fire, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Ahtsoglou. Cause: Workload. The tenth under number 284/21-1-2019 topical question from the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: “Albanian street development of Great Albania”, will not be discussed. Eleventh Question No 280/17-1-2019 topical and urgent question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Kouzilos to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "The administration of the Aegean is promoting the government" will not be discussed. The twelfth, with number 260/9-1-2019, topical question by MEP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Kouzilos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of inland waterways”, will not be discussed. The thirteenth question, with number 261/9-1-2019, is the second question of the National Association - Golden Dawn Mr Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. The fourteenth under number 263/9-1-2019 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Kouzilos to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the state of Skopje" will not be discussed. Also, it will not be discussed in consultation with the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Kokalis, the first under number 318/4-1-2019, the first time in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Vettas, to the Minister for Rural Development, on the subject of: ‘Full payments problems relating to the non-successfulness of agricultural parcels’. There will also not be debated, due to a blockade by the Member, the third under number 335/5-2-2019, a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Communist Party of Greece, Karathasopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Image of the irrigation of the irrigation network of the General Organisation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (GOB)" (GOB). We are now continuing with our fourth question under number 321, 4-2-2019, with the second time question by SYRIZA MP Mr.Rizoulis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Extension of the payment of debts to the pension funds for pensioners’. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Petropoulos. Please, Mr. Rizzouli, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning! As has been said by the pronunciation, the question is to extend and pay debts to the insurance funds for pensioners. As you know much better than I do, there are pensioners, mainly, who have been applying for a pension since 2016, but because of the excess amount, over 20,000 euros, that is, they cannot retire. What is requested is the extension of the possibility of adjusting debts above EUR 20,000, on the basis of some warnings coming from EKKA, so that they can obtain the most favourable arrangements that have been announced. We're waiting for her. I am talking about the regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments, which you will bring to the House next time, so that they too can adjust their debts without having the effect on the alerts. All I want to say is that in the effects on the two-month limit for payment of the surplus, it is stated that, if the full amount of the pension is not paid in time, it is now due and the pension will start to be paid on the 1st of the next month for payment of the entire debt, losing all retroactive pensions. I think it is understandable that, in view of the new regulation, there should be an extension or suspension of the execution of these payments, probably resulting from the ECA rules, so that these people in the next one or two months will be able in total to regulate their debts, as do the rest of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u12	You're welcome. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Rizzouli, we've already announced measures that we'll take for the debts. We are now in the process of detail to legislate on the relevant regulations. They will be - roughly I will say - close to the six hundred thousand insured, professionals, debtors today who will benefit from these arrangements, which will actually be such that they will be in the measures of the debtors to enable them to fulfil them. So far we have made brave arrangements, our government, since 2015. You remember that we had a big haircut, and we also gave the possibility until September 2015 to ask for enlisted pensioners, as we say, who could not receive a pension due to debts, even if they had to pay up to EUR 50,000, while the limit was EUR 20,000. Just a thousand two hundred joined this most favourable and unprecedented until then, in terms of favor, regulation. This has shown the real situation, that even under such conditions and conditions, the insured could not respond because of the heavy, huge burdens that had been accumulated in previous years. That is why what we are now taking into account is to recalculate the contributions that these would have had if our own system were in place which has now been implemented and which have been said to be a loot and a slaughterer of the free professionals. This glossy who slaughters the free professionals drastically mitigates the debts to an extent that ultimately this method of calculation decreases by 70%. This means a system which calculates contributions in a very diligent way for the insured, that is, 70% less than they used to. This is the new situation, and in this new way we will regulate the old debts, we will bring those debts into the present year. It will be drastically reduced. Let me say to you fatally that a debt of EUR 70,000 will fall to EUR 22,000 and the repayment time will be up to a hundred and twenty instalments. Wait a few days to complete the details. There will be a special platform in the CRL which, first, will show the insured person who will come in and ask what the amount is due. In a second step, the system will tell him what the amount will be due after the cut. A third move will choose to join the system, which will already be ready. In a very simple way and very quickly it will take off this rock from almost nine hundred thousands of our fellow citizens who are in a state of deadlock, depression, anxiety, fear for tomorrow. The economy needs to re-start with the OLAF's portfolios, because these amounts will now be collected. Until then we only had them as requirements that were never collected. The world will be relieved. Eighty thousand people could get pensions they couldn't get and they would never get. That is the situation we are shaping. That is what we want to achieve, and we will achieve it in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u14	You have the floor again, Mr. Rizzouli, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u15	Maybe it was my fault that I didn't mention it. Maybe I should have mentioned it. You did very well, Minister, and you mentioned it. Let us say that these debts that have accumulated to these people, who have remained outside the pension system, are 2014 debts. Because of the inability and functioning of the market, freelance professionals could not pay their insurance contributions. They closed shops. This is all packed up. In a good way to date and with the new regulation, as you mentioned earlier, a solution will be found to tens of thousands of people who have remained apart from the effects of the crisis all this time and will be able to retire properly. Obviously, I understand from your words that those who are in the two-month ECA are not in danger, and people will be able to regulate their debts. I should thank you for the immediate response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u17	I would therefore add, Mr President, that the CRL has already been ordered not to proceed with enforcement measures against debtors in the light of this arrangement. The same order had previously been given in similar cases. Generally speaking, the CRL does not pursue unreasonably the debtors. Nevertheless, we have collected the debts to a large extent because it targeted the CRL under our guidance those debtors who were really able to pay and did not pay. In particular, what we have achieved during the previous period was to increase the revenue from unpaid contributions to workers. And that's very important. It is the area of debt collection that suffered more than anyone else. In the past, contributions from large companies were not collected. They're being collected now. We have targeted the JRC's action in this respect. It seems to me that this is what we have done in the recent CRL report, which shows that we have had a great increase in debt recovery from this side of the debtors, not from the small-professionals to the small-professionals and farmers. There has never been that, and now with the new arrangement, you will see that there will be a real exploration of revenue. I call on the insured and all the bodies that are collectively represented by the professions, particularly sciences and farmers, to help to restructure the social security portfolio. Moreover, these reductions are the best that could be done in any case and demonstrate that our own system of levy collection, combined with net income, is right and are in fact in the measures of each insured person to pay contributions, in relation to the old system, the inefficiency of the scales of insurance contributions which resulted in huge contributions, which led to a suffocation and suffocation of the market. I stress this and again why many deplore the expectation that EKKA will be dissolved in its compositions, that the free professionals insured by the former OSCE, the TEBE, will be reinstated, with the large contributions and large scales, that is to say, that the contributions of 800 euros, which closed shops, will be returned. I don't know who's happy with that prospect, but a lot of people are happy. I don't know for what reasons. Obviously, because they believe that SYRIZA will suffer the damage, but the damage from such an version is suffered by the country, it is suffered by the people, who are around us and have been relieved all this time and who are the ones who say: "Fortunately, indeed, that the contributions are so low that we can work." Last year, for the first time, twenty - three thousand more free professionals came in, after a continuous fall of the free professionals. Last year, for the first time, twenty - three thousand more free professionals came in, after a continuous fall of the free professionals. Others and more free professionals entered the market last year. That must not be interrupted. On the occasion of your question, I have to pass on these messages to society, to the bodies representing the free professionals: to support the ECA, to support this system that has given market breath and the possibility of developing small and medium-sized entrepreneurship again. I am still waiting - as many times as I say, I will not stop supporting it - for everyone to stand up to the circumstances and support the Single Social Security Agency to continue to deliver the positive development results that the social security system and the economy can have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. The sixth question will be discussed under number 320/4-2-2019 of the second question by Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Conservation, development and continuous operation of the social security offices in Karlovasi Samos and Eugenios Ikaria". Please, Mr Sevastaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. I also thank the Minister for coming to answer. They are very diligent in Parliament, and we have to recognise that. I usually speak from boobs. I will, however, remain in the text, because at least in the first part, I want to have discipline in imaging the problem: According to the Agency of the Single Social Security Agency, EKKA, published in the Official Journal of the Government on 23 January 2019, a presidential decree under number 8-, is defined as: First, the Regional Coordination and Support Services, PYSY, based on the locally-based offices of the regions, secondly, the local directorates of the FYROM and, thirdly, the Social Security offices. In Article 34 of the Agency, the local management of Samos is based with a specific organisational structure and with the Decentralised Social Security Department based in Agios Kryrikos. The territorial competence of the local management of Samos is located within the limits of the regional unit of Samos - Ikaria. Subsequently, Article 35 states that the social security offices are recommended by a decision of the commander of the EFCA and fall under the territorial authority. So, on the basis of the above, and of the fact that we have spatial geological and residential peculiarities on the islands, great difficulties of access, a specific road network and so on, is the Minister asking: what action will the Minister take to ensure, on the basis of the new organization of EKKA, that the social security offices in Karlovasi Samos and in Evgenios Ikaria are permanently and permanently operated on the basis of the new organization of EKKA? In my dentistry, I'm going to develop some thoughts that start with this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u20	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. Mr Sevastakis' question raises the issues relating to the organisation of EKKA and gives me the opportunity to give answers to our fellow citizens who have reasonable questions about their real service. First of all, Mr Sevastakis, you would see that an address is being created in Samos. There was no and there wasn't for all the former social security institutions. Doctors, engineers, lawyers, various sectors of the economy had to come to Athens to serve, there was no service. The local address of Samos concerns all the insured persons from whatever body they come from, from whatever old body they come from. They are always served by the insured. And that's not all, we're creating a decentralized department in Ikaria. Decentralised section means exactly what address is smaller. That is, again in the decentralised department is covered by all the insured, doctors, lawyers, farmers, free traders, officials, public and private people and do not need to go to Piraeus to get to Athens to serve. We will, of course, maintain the social security offices. It's not going to close the social security office. In Ikaria, we have Evius and St. Kerrykos. In Agios Kryrikos we will have a decentralised department that is more extensive with larger staff and we will maintain a social security office, it will not be closed. In future, when each insured person's computer is on the tablet, cell phone, computer - and when I say in future I do not mean too far, it will not come much later, it will come within the next two or three years, it will already be done - it will have social security and everything, it will not have to be organized either, because there will be no reason. Our job is to serve the insured person. We are moving on very soon - I have said - to abolish the health booklet that someone had to go seal so that he could take medication to go to the doctor. The insurance information will be provided electronically by the computer wherever it is located with its own VAT and the relevant number to obtain insurance information. Ureas were formed to get insurance information old and not where they were, but in the center of Athens not even in any part of the country. All this is going to happen from everywhere, To be clear, however, what I am saying is that no point in the service that already exists will be abolished. The existing ones are strengthened and we will not even have to have this picture that we have from memory. Things are changing, things won't be like that. We will have electronic social security, not the paper and suffering of the insured person.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much. So I guess if you're reassuring and reassuring that both units for this historic time and Carlovashi, that is, that's, and Evius will remain in operation. However, I would point out that at this stage a large part of the insured do not have digital, online culture and you know very well that for the time being the addressee audience needs help cannot be associated with the internet service. It's also his accumulated insecurity. He wants the clerk, he wants that answer. Indeed, it is obvious that this is out of date, that we are going towards an online administration. This is a very important development. It's going to make a huge economy in time. At this time, however, there is this peculiarity. There are great ages and there is a lack of digital online culture. I would like to point out to you, so that it does not appear to be meticulousism or exaggeration the agony to exist, in a way, in a 'period' of dispersal service, in Carlovashi and in Evius, that the islands are interrupted by large mountain tumors and we have dispersed and even balanced settlements. In other words, we have'multiple' societies and therefore the diffusion of services helps a great deal in time, both in the service of the citizen and in controls. This dimension is very important. We sometimes have the idea of interpreting the regions, the provinces, the islands, with Google's map. It's not like that. Reality has difficult mountain roads - from MOMA, if you remember well, you will obviously remember, our age is near - joys that were listening to a completely different productive reality and they are still surviving. Therefore, travel within island complexes are too large. I believe that the streamlining of the system is on the way. And taking the floor from the previous question by my colleague, it was indeed a nightmare the old TEBE. It's raining - snow you had to have a amount instead of a percentage on some income. So there were periods when you had no income and you had to pay. So I know that a very serious attempt is being made to rationalize your work. I close my second language by repeating that we have no problem, there is no way that existing structures and their dispersion will be put into crisis. That is what I would like to repeat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Sevastaki, I've never been to Ikaria.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u26	Not even Samos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u27	So it will be a chance this year to go together - and I want to go together - to see the inhabitants, to talk to them about the agony and problems they have. I understand the islandity and its problems. What I said at the outset is that we are not entitled to keep the islands excluded and the first public body to solve this problem will be social security. There's no way anyone can take the boat to go to Piraeus, go to Syros to solve the social security problem. For example, in Syros there was the Directorate for the Cyclades and had to go to Piraeus, because they are not interconnected between them all the islands. This whole situation is tragic and I understand, especially in winter, what exclusion means and how these people could be served. These problems will be solved - to a large extent already - by social security. Of course, you are right that many people are not familiar, especially the old ages, and they do not have the means to be able to serve themselves for these applications, which are already there and which will soon be the rest of them. I hope that the forthcoming elections, municipal and regional, to highlight local leaders and leaders who are aware of the need to be on the side of insured citizens, to work with the one that I have repeatedly and by extension, so that the municipalities, the annexes, the local communities are provided with the services of the insured, that they are interconnected with the ECA and have access from everywhere. And last night I had a good opportunity to discuss them with the presence of representatives of traders, liberals and craftsmen in the EBRD. They understand the need for there to be an interconnection between the EPC and the chambers, to offer services, that is, the chambers. He's gonna spread out all over the place. That's the point. And it will be a great contribution from local government to understand it. And I hope - I repeat - that the new local representatives, municipalities and regions are made up of people who are aware of this need to cooperate and provide services from everywhere for social security. We want this, we want it, we ask for it. And I think we'll do it. And then there will be no such problem, which is identified as a problem, and we will no longer have the citizen served from everywhere for all purposes. Our government has declared this objective from the outset, to have an administration that has a single expression and serves citizens from everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. The third, with number 333/5-2-2019, top-level question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the damage caused on the new highway of Chania - Kissamos North Road of Crete (BOAK) due to the floods as well as within the settlement of Lower Stalos on Malindretou Street", will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility, as the Ministry of Interior is responsible. We move to the second under number 325/4-2-2019 on a second time question from the Member of the Lesbos Parliament, Mr Charalambou Athanasiou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Increasing the approved budget for the Improving Plans for the Northern Aegean Region". This question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Kokkalis. Please, Mr Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, the Northern Aegean Region is primarily a farm-food region in our country, where the main income of the majority of residents depends on the agricultural sector, which has been experiencing particular growth in recent years. For example, according to the official figures of the ELOGAK, the Greek Milk and Meat Organisation, in the Lesvos Prefecture, where it accounts for more than 50% of the farms in the Northern Aegean Region - only 50% of which is in Lesvos, you understand the dynamics that exist for the development - 30 million pounds of sheep and four million heifer milk and is the third county in Greece in producing sheep and goat milk with about three thousand breeds. In addition, Lesvos produces on average ten thousand tonnes of olive oil each year with a large number of farmers and young farmers, while it is important to develop the wine growing especially in Samos, Limnos and Lesvos. With a question which we had then tabled to the Minister for Rural Development, your predecessor, on 2921/25-1-2018, we pointed out its small budget no. 13849/14-12-17 call for expressions of interest to submit proposals to the Agricultural Development Programme of Greece 2014-2020. These are the well-known Improvement Plans, where the region of Northern Aegean also accounted for 16.5m euros. This amount is now reduced by 40% compared with the previous call for the actions in the agricultural sector in the North Aegean Region and we have called for the budget to be drastically increased, especially for the Northern Aegean region. Today, at the end of the submission of the files of the Improvement Plans, we are unfortunately entitled to our previous question about the small budget of the Northern Aegean Region, given that for the EUR 16.5 million, which they represent, a thousand two hundred thirty-seven applications were made at a public cost of EUR 80.5 million. This means that one out of five will be entitled, while the average across the country, as far as the same programmes are concerned, is one out of three. In other words, on average, in Greece one is entitled to three and in the North Aegean region, unfortunately it is one in five. In view of the above, it is imperative to increase the budget for the Improvement Plans in our region, Mr Minister, in view of the specific problems that exist due to migratory flows. I would like to hear what your plans are and what you can do to improve them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u30	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. As you well know, Mr President, sub-measure 4.1, which is referred to as 'investments that improve the overall performance of the assets' in the well-known improvement plans, is along with the processing measure the most important measures of the Rural Development Programme. This specific measure has been allocated to the regions. The logic of what he says? When I give something to someone, there's a reason for the amount. Where do I want to end up and what is the point? The sums allocated to the regions were agreed with the Union of the Regions. Let's get this straight. Indeed, the sum is EUR 16 561 000 and a thousand two hundred and thirty-seven proposals have been tabled with a request for public expenditure of EUR 70,242,000, i.e. the required needs are four times higher. In my dentistry, I will tell you what the Ministry of Rural Development has done in time for the North Aegean farmers to know when the proposals will be assessed. What I can tell you today is that there will be an overcompensation of the amount. I can't tell you to what extent. The assessment to be carried out by the region must be terminated in order to accurately determine the actual financial need of the measure. I would also mention that the aid intensity for the Northern Aegean region is 75% for old farmers, 80% for young people and 85% for collective investment. It is increased compared to mainland Greece due to islandity. I therefore reply to the question that when the assessment is finished and the financial measure is clearly determined, it will be overcompensated. At the moment we cannot know to what extent, i.e. what the amount will ultimately be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u32	Mr Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u33	Minister, first of all, I am pleased that your position is that it is in your programme and, in your mind, that this amount will be increased after the reform that you are going to make. But I am surprised that the EIA, the Committee of the Regions, did not show any greater sensitivity to the northern Aegean. It cannot be the ratio across Greece one to three and in Lesvos one to five. If it is the responsibility of HSY, it is something that we will consider. In any case, you must bear in mind that, given the particularities that exist, many young farmers have focused on improving their facilities for the development of their economy and the exploitation of their livestock and herbal products. There are too many problems. I would remind you that there are also the following problems, which need to be taken into account for the increase in distance, due to islands, from mainland Greece on the islands, the constant migratory flows, the reduction of tourist current on certain islands, due to migration and especially in Chios and Lesvos - while on other islands and because of the crisis in Turkey and Egypt there was indeed an increase to the south of the Aegean, but it was not the same in the northern Aegean - and, of course, the increase in VAT from the abolition of reduced rates. All this, if combined with the natural disasters that have taken place lately with the earthquakes in southern Lesvos, but also with the disasters that have occurred lately because of the forest which has hit all the olive groves and which has been paid more, is a reason why the Ministry must show a sensitivity to these areas. We therefore hope that you will do so. Furthermore, your statement is optimistic and satisfys us, as long as it is implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u34	Here, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, as I said, I would not say with the word'responsible', but with the agreement of the EES, the Committee of the Regions. We need to make that clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u36	Let's make the intervention that way too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u37	It is also considered a very important measure and, believe me, there will be a overcompensation of the amount, as long as the evaluation is completed in time. At the moment farmers and farmers in the northern Aegean are interested in when the evaluation will take place and whether others will get in. What have we done as the Ministry of Rural Development? What has the General Secretariat of Community Policy done? It has given the regions a timetable no later than the first half of 2019 to finish the evaluation. It has already drawn up and instructed our Ministry, the General Secretariat of Community Policy for the Training of Accountants, and the relevant analytical guide for evaluation has already been sent to the regions. Finally, the Evaluator's remuneration procedure has been promoted and completed. Therefore, as Ministry of Rural Development today that we are talking about through the General Secretariat of the Community Policy, we have given all the technical instructions, everything, so that the evaluation will be made by the summer of 2019. Then there will be a commitment, but we need to see the real financial needs of the measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. We move to the first with number 319/4-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Tsironis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Except for slaughter of animals slaughtered in Greece in the context of religious or other cultural events". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Tyloridou. Here, Mr. Cironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, this is not a new issue, it is an old one. It is clear, in our view, that the regulation no longer permits slaughtering animals outside a slaughterhouse with some very rare exceptions in some countries, such as the bullfighting in Spain, which are called 'cultural', without that being to mean that we morally accept such old customs. However, in Greece we do not have such customs and there is absolutely no reason to slaughter animals outside the slaughterhouse. So philosophical organisations in 2016 and 2017 had filed appeals. The DAG, the Directorate for Rural Economy and Animal Health, had stated that it was not reasonable for the slaughter to take place for religious reasons on ceremonies outside the slaughterhouse. It was forbidden, there were monthly reports and, unfortunately, this summer's public prosecutor, this is the new one, he put the cases in the file, invoking - I don't know - which legislation. So, is the Ministry which is expedient - and at least we have made it clear that this cannot be done and it is not tradition - that is, is it allowed or allowed to be slaughtered outside a slaughterhouse for any reason of such religious or cultural tradition? And, secondly, what does the Ministry intend to do to the co-legislative Ministries of Justice in order to make it clear that European and Greek legislation does not permit such activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u40	Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, as you have said, this is not a matter now. In the regional unity of Lesvos, there has been a custom that has been revived for many years at the Monastery of Pamgeist Brigads of Archangelon Michael and Gabriel. In 2016 and 2017, philosophical organisations were, in fact, mobilised so that there was no public slaughter in the sanctuary of the monastery. There were questions - for your information - to the Directorate-General for Food Safety of the Ministry of Rural Development from the Regional Rural Economy Directorate in the northern Aegean. The answer given by the services of the Ministry of Rural Development is clear. The country applies the European Regulation 853/2004 on hygiene rules in foodstuffs of animal origin. This regulation, therefore, does not provide for any exemption for such kinds of slaughter for cultural events. Let us say that this answer was given after a question asked by the Directorate-General for Veterinary Affairs to the European Union for further clarification as to whether there is a possibility of this exception. The answer that has come from the European Union is that the regulation does not apply to the manufacture of foodstuffs for domestic use and that bovine animals should be slaughtered at the approved slaughterhouse. I would also like to tell you that in the presence of the officials responsible from the Ministry of Rural Development in this monastery, it was found that next door is the slaughterhouse and what was proposed is that the slaughter should take place legally in the slaughterhouse. In any case, the Ministry of Rural Development is asking for legality to be respected, and I think that is now clear, because there are the relevant documents and specific staff notes that say that this slaughter does not follow legality and must be carried out in the slaughterhouse. I should also like to say here that, in our view - and if we want to make a general position - compulsory slaughter in the slaughterhouse does not alter the substance and symbolism of the custom that exists in this region. I therefore think that the ban on bulls in this space is something governed by European legislation and the European Regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u42	Here, Mr Tsironi, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased with your reply, Madam Secretary, and indeed it was indeed so that I would remind you that the prosecutor - another prosecutor - in 2015 stated that exactly these massacres are illegal. I am also pleased that you mentioned the issue of hygiene. The meat from these feasts shares with believers, shares in tourists, shares in people. So he comes up with a vital health issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u44	Cooked there, cooked on the spot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u45	That's right. It's not meat that goes for another purpose. In this sense, it is in no way understood that in our religion it prevents the animal from being slaughtered in a slaughterhouse, what prevents the religious ceremony. It's nothing that stops her. I understand that there are traditions, but traditions were old, as sacrificing his daughter. We cannot have traditions that are inconsistent with the evolution of morality in our culture. In our morality, in the morality of Greece - the birthplace of the European idea - it is not the abuse of the animal, of any animal. It's immoral, it's unacceptable, it's dangerous. It can't go hand in hand, whatever it means from an old habit. In this sense, I cannot understand, since it is so clear for the prompt Ministry, the Ministry of Rural Development, how it is possible for prosecutors this year to put these cases in the file and how it is possible, while it is so clear, to continue this activity at this time. Unfortunately, there is not only the phenomenon in Lesvos, which is the occasion of the question, from which in the autumn we took the protest from philosophical organisations, but unfortunately it is done in a terrible way to slaughter animals outside the slaughterhouse, traditionally, on some pigs in the Cyclades, which are even boasting. It is a widespread phenomenon and it really is inconsistent with our culture. In that sense, I would like to insist on one question. What steps will the Ministry of Rural Development take to clarify to the public prosecutors, to the Ministry of Justice by letters, that the prosecutors cannot continue to defend themselves with such acts and that you have diverted an illegal activity? I say again that there is absolutely no hindrance to being slaughtered and to share the meat with the faithful in a slaughterhouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and five teachers from the Private Municipal and Lyceum "Labiti Schools". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Mrs. Tyloridou, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u47	As I said in my prototype, it is clear that the implementing Regulation 853 does not allow slaughter outside the slaughterhouse. As far as your specific question is concerned, I think you are aware that the Ministry of Rural Development cannot impose on the judiciary what its decisions will be. So what it is for us to do is to have the relevant service notes and the circular that determines on the basis of which regulations animal slaughter is carried out in the country. You can understand that the other is an intervention in justice, which cannot be done. In any case, however, on the basis of the European Regulations, the Ministry of Rural Development wishes to respect the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded. Before entering the supplementary agenda of the legislative work, we will be interrupted for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Integration into Greek legislation: (a) Directive (EU) 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies and (b) Article 1 of Council Directive (EU) 2017/2455 of 5 December 2017’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 6 February 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle and on articles. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u50	The House has agreed. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Simeon Ballis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since 1992, when the United Nations was set up for the first time, the Day for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has taken place, so far many important steps have been taken to defend these rights of SNEs, but also to raise awareness among the general public about the issues that concern them. A characteristic and perhaps top example is the resolution and entry into force of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2008, which is essentially a recognition of their rights and a strengthening of their position in society. The right to health, work, equal recognition of the law, but above all the right to accessibility, accessibility everywhere. Accessibility, inter alia, to information, communication, trade, day-to-day contact with services. A prerequisite for people with disabilities to live independently and to participate fully and equally in society. If accessibility is a right for people with disabilities, it is also an obligation for us all to implement it, with the appropriate design of services and goods, with the appropriate adaptation of technological applications, ensuring equal and unlimited access, ensuring, in other words, the dignity of people with disabilities in their daily lives. Today we are living in the era of technological revolution, as many characterize it. In the era of the fourth industrial revolution, information and digital data. The new technological possibilities are true that they facilitate the daily lives of citizens in their contacts and transactions with services in their information and communication. This technological development at the same time as facilitating this everyday life creates new inequalities for a proportion of citizens for the simple reason that not all citizens have the same chance of accessing these services, whether because of inadequate technological knowledge or - and this is the most serious thing we are seeing - because of a disability. This is a problem, but at the same time a challenge that we must face, and that is what the directive we are calling on today to incorporate into national law is doing. It is the first directive of the draft law, Directive 2102/2016 on accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. Obviously, it is not an answer to all the problems with the accessibility of disabled people. It is, however, part of the answers and solutions that need to be found, in order to cover some of the deficits, which are found in the full implementation of what is stated in the Treaty on European Union and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, even those provided for in the Greek Constitution. The incorporation of the Directive promotes the design and making available of public sector websites and Internet services so as to be accessible and usable for all users and especially for vulnerable social groups and disabled people. This is mainly a formulation of the regulatory framework and technical interventions, which will make the services provided accessible and accessible to the public sector accessible. By incorporating the directive, the design of software systems, whether developed by public bodies or by third parties, must take account of these regulations. The question was raised in the committee's debate as to whether all these rules have been taken into account in the opinion of those who, in particular, concern them. I mean people with disabilities. The Minister replied to the committee's meeting that the draft law was before a thorough consultation. The truth is that there was no consultation before, full cooperation was preceded in order to formulate these regulations and not a simple exchange of views or a simple submission of requests. The draft law contains the full incorporation of the proposals put forward by the National Disabled Persons Confederation, ESDC. In the letter, which has been sent to all members of our committee, the ESDC is detailed about the seven points that the Confederation has mentioned and which have been incorporated into the draft law, in particular those points relating to the participation of users themselves, i.e. disabled people, through the ESDC, in the training of the Public Website and Portable Equipment Applications Register, in the inclusion of their websites and applications and not just of their agencies in the register, in the existence of an agreement between the ESDP on the exclusion of schools and nurseries, but also other proposals that have been made. From this letter, I am attributes to the fact that RASA consulted and worked closely with the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction to incorporate this directive. The same letter gives an indicative list of seven points of comments, opinions, proposals from the ESDP, which, following this close cooperation with the Ministry, were incorporated into the draft law we are debating today. I am tabling this letter from the ESDP, not as a certification of the truth of what I am referring to - since we have all received the same letter and know exactly what it contains - but as an example of good legislature and as an example of the application of constitutional requirements for the role of citizens and society in the formulation of the framework of everyday life and the equal treatment of all citizens by law. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simeon Ballis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What I have mentioned so far has been the first part of the draft law, which we are discussing today. In Part 2 of the draft law, we have the incorporation of Article 1 of Directive 2455/2017, which concerns the taxation of telecommunications, radio, television or electronic services, provided by micro-enterprises to non-taxable persons, but established in other Member States - non-Greece. This is a replacement of paragraph 13 of Article 14 of the VAT Code. What is the change provided for in this provision? Let's see it simpler. A small enterprise, which provides the services mentioned above and is established in Greece, if it provides services to a recipient of a private or legal person not subject to taxation, who are established in another Member State, if the value of the services provided does not exceed EUR 10,000 per year, then this small Greek company is taxed in Greece. It's not possible at the location of their client receiving these services. What does that mean? It means less administrative costs and less costs in general for the Greek company, because it will no longer be required for this company, the small Greek company, to obtain a tax number in each country where its customers are established and thus to face the administrative and tax burden of other Member States in order to tax it. Under another provision of the same draft law we are discussing, other paragraphs of the VAT Code are replaced, so that the taxable entities which are no longer established in the European Union are required to obtain a tax registration number - and be entered in a register in any Member State - of the European Union that they will choose, so that they can provide their services. This makes it easier for businesses outside the European Union to trade, but they are active within the European Union. Finally, under the provision contained in Article 16 of the draft law, an invoice should be issued for entities not established in the European Union, but registered under special arrangements of the VAT Code and selected as their place of business in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, with the incorporation of these directives, as I said at the outset, particularly with its first part, on facilitating the accessibility of people with disabilities to public services, with the regulations on how the software of the public body services will become, above all, regulates issues, not just accessibility, but facilitating the life of our fellow citizens, who have problems with disabilities. It is not an overall approach to the problems of this part of citizens, but it is an important regulation that facilitates their everyday lives. Most of all, however, it facilitates and helps in this direction to be treated as equal members, with the same rights as the whole of society and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. We are going with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Theocharis Theocharis. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill, which of course does not offer to increase controversy. At a similar meeting on the incorporation of the two directives, which we are discussing today in any other Member State of the Union, we would not have much to say. We would agree with summary procedures. The transposition of national legislation would have been very good and time-consuming. It would certainly be accompanied by financial burdens. It would also be accompanied by a plan for the objectives, requirements, resources and implementation plans provided for in these directives, and of course it would also mean the launch of a fruitful debate with the stakeholders concerned. Unfortunately, things are different here. We are the twenty-first to adopt Directive 2102. We adopt Directive 2445 over time, forty days. We do not know what costs they create and who are concerned with. We do not know, for example, how many websites we are talking about how many public applications we are talking about, so that we have an image of the process, which will be borne by the Greek public. Of course, we have not bothered to listen to the bodies, and we have the assurances that I, too, will receive from the Minister and from the SYRIZA rapporteur, that this bill has been framed by the institutions involved. As I understand it, in committee too, because this issue has been discussed, we have nothing tangible, in terms of resources and implementation programmes, so of course nothing at the level of objectives. This structurally, if you wish, degrades parliamentary function - it is regrettable - but, above all, there is long-term risks. But let us see what these two directives do. Directive 2102 is part of the so-called Europe for Disability Strategy 2010-2020 and is in line with the Digital Agenda for Europe. Basically, it standardises the accessibility laws on the websites and applications of public bodies. It is a tool to alleviate digital exclusion and to support the participation of disabled people and the elderly in society in terms of equality. What, though, are our overall performances on the digital front? The figures - let me say, because I have tabled the relevant information to the committee - are disappointing. According to the European Union DESI for 2018, we are last, twenty-eight in the European Union in the digital public services, eight in the open data, twenty-six in the use of e-government, twenty-second in the use of online services and in total, in all digital categories, total in the index, twenty-seven, that is, the last. Indeed, in the digital government services, we have lost seven whole positions since 2015. This trend is indicative of the importance the government attaches to e-government. We cannot separate the Ministries and put a title on 'Digital Policy Ministry' to make it all better. This bill also shows the malfunctions created by separating the two Ministries: delays in legislating, the labyrinth in the matter of registering and the control of pages broken between the two Ministries, the need to coordinate them. And we all know very well, those at least we've been through public administration, what it means to coordinate within two different ministries. It's part of the problem. Finally, the national legislator, too, is moving as restrictively as he can. This is a decision that you have made, a government decision. It's not imposed by the directive. You shut it down as much as you could. In addition, it points out in consultation and by ESDC. The preamble to the directive - so that there is no question of what I am saying - says the following. I read: ‘Member States should also be encouraged to extend the application of this Directive to private entities offering facilities and services open to the public, including in the fields of healthcare, childcare, social inclusion and social security, as well as in the transport sector and in relation to electricity, gas, heating, water, electronic communications and postal services’. This includes the majority of services, which Greek citizens use daily: Water, electricity, mail, health, transport. These, with your choice, stay out of the law's provisions. Do people not need this kind of disability, do they not? As is the case with Article 9 of the Directive, which states that Member States are to ensure that an appropriate and effective implementation procedure is available to ensure compliance with this Directive. ‘Conformity guaranteed’. In particular, Member States shall ensure that an implementation procedure has been established, including the possibility of communicating with a Citizens' Ombudsman, in order to ensure that the information or requests received are effectively dealt with in order to review the evaluation of applications. As the draft law stands today, it leaves questions about what comes after the five days which the agency is obliged to answer. Article 9 of the directive would leave no margin on it and, in fact, it was a safety test for the sure fact of the abuse of Article 5, i.e. a disproportionate burden. The services, the first instinct they have, are to say that the costs will be too great and thus find the way they do not comply with this directive. That is for sure and therefore it needs a project on the part of the political leadership, so that this does not happen. Similarly, in the field of application the institutions' internal networks remain outside, maintaining the work digital exclusion for disabled people working in the general public. Therefore, the external website to the citizens will be accessible, the internal website on staff issues or anything else offered to the employees of the service will not be accessible or has the possibility of not being accessible, because it is not forced by this law. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate and stress that the risk of this being a simple wish is visible. That doesn't make her a wrong step. It is a right step, in the right direction, but it is a step in the right direction, if there is no implementation plan. We need resources, objectives, plans and programmes for implementation, rewards and sanctions, and that is what we expect to see. More broadly, we must realise that it is not enough to comply only with the letter of the law, but also with the spirit of the law itself. The accessible websites should not only be user-friendly, but also provide basic services to citizens and unfortunately, today, the reality does not contribute to digital equality. For New Democracy, digital equality is part of an extensive and comprehensive action plan to support disabled people, a project which also provides for national coordinator, but also resources, provides for the creation of a special social fund, the modernisation of the JEPs and the establishment of a personal assistance programme for persons with a high disability rate. I now come to Directive 2455 on the harmonisation of the terms of electronic commerce, which we only incorporate its first article. Why? Because, as we have said in committee, the public services always want to do the least. Here we are already late, we come to incorporate Article 1 because we have delayed seeing both of the articles of this directive. Departmentality, of course, is a bad piece of legislation and we should avoid it. I hope that we will avoid it in the future. This, of course, is the lasson, in relation to this directive. What does it change with the incorporation of this directive? Greek small and medium-sized enterprises, who sell electronically or remotely to another Member State - will no longer be obliged to pay VAT to the other Member State - if the total exports made by these companies do not exceed EUR 10,000. Of course, that is not compulsory. Businesses are allowed to choose whether they want to tax in their country of establishment, Greek companies in Greece or whether they will be taxed in each country separately, depending on where they are exporting. This is positive at first glance, because this reduces the bureaucracy that companies have to follow, and therefore one should welcome it positively. However, since our country is applying the highest rates of taxation to VAT, it is obvious that Greek companies have no incentive to tax in our country and therefore most of them will choose to tax them in the other countries of the European Union. So, in reality, we incorporate a directive, an article, which will remain void in practice. On the contrary, there is no incentive for other Community enterprises to make this choice. Therefore, the incorporation of this directive into other countries will lead foreign small and medium-sized enterprises not to pay VAT to our country and to pay VAT to their country, which will be at a lower rate. So we have a possible loss of VAT revenue. Of course, the Greek small and medium-sized enterprises are facing a whole more unfavourable environment, and I am mainly talking about the VAT-free threshold. We have, of course, discussed this - it is not the responsibility of this part of the bill, Mr Papanatsiou - to the committee and the limit of EUR 10 000 is too small. Greece has the second lower limit after Spain and the Netherlands, which have no limit at all. In other words, we are the worst of them, which have established a limit. At the same time, neighbouring or competing countries have a much larger exemption limit. In other words, the exemption threshold, for the Greek people to understand it, is a threshold below which a small company is entitled not to charge VAT. It only charges the value of the goods or services and has no obligation to import VAT. He's got 0%. What is that limit in Bulgaria? It's 25,000 euros. What the New Democracy is proposing. In Romania, 47,000 euros. In Cyprus, 15,600. In Slovenia, 50,000. In Austria 30,000, in Croatia 40,000. I mention to you countries, with which our country is actually tax-competing. So the aid for small businesses in practice - because I told you that this directive will not be used by small businesses in our country - will only be done if we decide to increase the exemption threshold, because this will improve their competitiveness and, of course, reduce the administrative burden. The proposal from the New Democracy to the 25 000. It is about the European average, and it should be - it is a mistake that we do not go any further, since there is pressure, there is also a means of dealing with the European Union - to do so. I insist on the issue of aid for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Minister accused us in committee of causing the 'death of the trader'. Of course, he used the data very selectively. I would like to reintroduce the debate there. The Minister told us that in the period 2008-2014 - why it is all this time in the New Democracy, when it did not govern all these years, it is an issue that she should answer - the closure of two hundred and fifty thousand small and medium-sized enterprises. First, half of them closed in 2011. The hundred and eleven thousand to ten thousand were closed at the time that the New Democracy did not rule. Secondly, at the same time, three hundred and two thousand businesses opened up. Even with this very difficult year of 2011, which was not the New Democracy in the government, there is a positive balance of fifty-two thousand businesses, at the heart of the crisis, with 25%, 27% recession at the time. And what happened during SYRIZA? In 2005-2018 we have a hundred twenty-eight thousand new businesses and a hundred eleven thousand business closures. Thus, a much smaller positive balance of seventeen thousand enterprises. In fact, 2016 was negative: five and a half thousand small and medium-sized enterprises closed down, more than they opened. What else did you do for small and medium-sized enterprises and help them? You took the legal person tax from 26% to 29%, the dividends from 10% to 15%, the advance tax payment of 55% to 80% at 100%! And not to mention a total of twenty-nine taxes brought by the SYRIZA government. When, in fact, the debts of individuals are increasing at a rate of 1 billion. In the month, more than 100 billion has been thrown off, about what relief of small and mediumsized enterprises is the Minister talking about? Therefore, we should not be pleased about the anemic development of 2017 and 2018. The Minister must be accountable, and the Minister's overall, for bringing the country back to a recession after the development of 2014. And it takes us so many years to get back to the same spot. So SYRIZA’s development was lost within taxes and excesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", 50 students and students and three teachers from the 1st Tocsio Municipal School of Elis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are going with the rapporteur for the Democratic Asylum Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, our ancient ancestors said: 'Not in the long term but in the euphoria'. So I start and say a few things about this bill, which is in line with a European Union directive, whose policy is to strengthen the information society, to inform citizens so that they are involved in modern developments. The directive, which we are discussing today, Mr President, in this House, seeks a fundamental objective: to give citizens, users in general, information technology, by focusing on the issues of people with special needs and the elderly, who we will include, because there is a lack of knowledge, depending on age, although in the Greek reality the penetration of young people into the information society is strong. I'll make a comment. The directives - and we have also discussed this with the Minister in committee - are, in my view, in line with the translation into Greek, provided by the services of the European Union. Unfortunately, however, this bill has a disadvantage - to say it - not substantial, but signifying. The translation services of the European Union have not yet been adapted to the terminology, which might be appropriate in the Greek language, so that the bill can be understood. I have set an example from the title “... for accessibility of the websites and portable devices of the public sector...”, it seems to me that we are trying to regulate, not the accessibility of individuals, individuals or users, but the accessibility of machines, computers on the websites. So I propose - and I will explain why I do this, Minister - to change it: '... for accessibility to the websites and applications for portable devices of public sector bodies...'. It's very understandable, more than the title. In fact, this has strengthened my argument and the report of the Parliament's Scientific Service, which has been tabled for the bill, which confirms my opinion. It says: ‘The transposition of a directive does not necessarily require a formal and in writing repetition of the provisions of the Directive into explicit and specific legislation. It may also be sufficient to provide a general legal framework if it ensures that the Directive is fully implemented in a sufficiently clear and specific manner.' It is also invoked by the European Court of Justice. I think, therefore, that there can be an intervention at those parts of the directive, which are unthinkable, to use simplified Greek words, to understand it. I'm moving on to the articles now. It gives the draft law the dimension, which must have a service, which can have a website and open this website for all users. These are in the bill. However, we have not escaped something that the Greek public administration likes, namely to lay provisions, to enrich texts by implementing provisions, which are often not useful, to give the Minister's authority to legislate by means of ministerial decisions. It is not enough, of course, for a Minister to always want more, to disperse either responsibility or give responsibility to be able to act. I have already set out in committee the examples which must be corrected in us. So I live in Article 2(4). "With a joint decision of the Ministers for Administrative Reconstruction, Digital Policy, Information, Education, Religious Affairs, issued after the opinion of the ESDP...." Yes, ESDP has a strong say in this directive, because at least I will be content with the assurances it gave us in a letter that it sent us that there was indeed cooperation and its proposals have not been rejected, but it seems that most of them have been incorporated into the directive. However, websites and applications for portable schools, kindergartens or nurseries may be excluded from the application of this Part. The original directive excludes these three levels of education directly, with the prospect that there is a need to protect childhood. Why should we need three ministers to exclude them? We can directly from the law. And I have insisted on this point. When we talk about transposing a directive, there is also flexibility in the national legal order. At least in this directive, I think it has been understood that this flexibility must relate to invoking law applications and not simply to increasing bureaucracy and acquiring competences. So I am coming back and I think you should follow the directive, as it says. Exclude kindergartens, kindergartens and schools directly from the law. Of course, I will not say much, because there are other provisions which give me thought and which are not provisions from those contained in the directive. They are enforcement provisions brought by the Greek Government, the Minister, to form part of the legislation. So I'm staying from now on. The Directive provides for a presumption of conformity to accessibility requirements. And it's Article 6 of the draft law. We, both domestic law and the directive accept that there must be a declaration of accessibility by the competent authority, which will ensure that it is accessible under the conditions and criteria of the law and the directive on its website by users, by people with disabilities, from the third age. However, we come and say in Article 8 that we must also make a register of the public sector website. That's internal law. It is not an incorporation of a directive, it is not a condition of the directive. We decide that on our own. Article 8 refers to a register of public websites and applications. There we say that those who have the certificate of accessibility will be entered in the register. They are supposed to meet the criteria of the directive and of the domestic law. So what does the Minister need to do inspect, make a decision to allow registration? Isn't that a bureaucracy that's swelling? Is that necessary? I am not convinced by the explanations given, that this is necessary and that it does not gigantic, that it does not add bureaucracy. I will be given the counter-project that we must have the opinion of the ESDP. Yes, but this knowledge - the right of opposition - I would call it myself, which the ESDP should have - is covered by Article 10, in which we give all users and stakeholders the right to make comments, requests for information, reports and corrections. And that's part of the directive. Therefore, it is covered and the Ministerial Decision is not necessary. For Article 8, I repeat my reservations because it creates an extra bureaucracy. It also creates a means of checking the accessibility certificate. You don't have to. The institutions to be included in these arrangements are thousands. We have thousands of legal persons under public law in the wider public sector, we have private individuals belonging to the public sector, we have ministries, we have ministries, we have ministers, State Secretarys, Deputys. We've got everything. So until this register is done, if we wait for ministerial decisions to be adopted and for each individual to have the accessibility statement checked, then the register will never work. And if it works, it will work incompletely and delayedly, because as long as time passes by voting for a piece of legislation, no matter how modern it is, no matter how much it imposes, what results it brings? It brings forgiving and forgetting. At the end of the day, we will not have the digital public services, because we will find it difficult to register because of bureaucratic impediments. Withdrawal of that provision, Minister, with which you have the power to register, which you propose to vote. Conformity guarantees shall be covered by Article 10 where there is a right to object to any interested party. Of course, we must not forget that we have different provisions in the same draft law which give the ministers the power. ‘The terms and conditions of accession shall be laid down in the register’. What outline is ‘conditions and conditions’? This may be either a misappropriation of the law, if we go beyond the terms and conditions necessary, or if we do not apply the law, if we make such conditions that cannot be entered into the register. Do you know why I'm saying it? This ministerial decision will become a policy tool, so that we can exclude access from services that may be considered not to have direct access to and information to the public. And I want to remind you this - it may be obsolete, of the past - but the public at least as delivered to my generation and to the next, the closed public sector is also a priesthood - let me be accused of what I say - many times that nobody wants to operate. With the opening up of the information, with the opening of the knowledge given, we will all have the right to control it. And since we have the right to control it, there should be no involvement of a minister, a involvement of a policy. It will be open so we can access the websites with their applications, to know what happens, what happens, how it is updated. I don't want to say any more. I think I have given the outline of our evenings, because I have also raised objections. He didn't respond convincingly, but it doesn't matter. We add and training for employees and public awareness - correctly - but where do we assign it? At the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration, train. We have never been told how many people this centre can train and who need training. I will insist, and I told the committee, that young civil servants today are high-level, know from technologies, they have studied, they know how to make...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u56	Where are the young people, and how much can we make up for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u57	We will make up for them, but our young people - if you do not want me to say to the public, to say to our young people in general - have a high level of education in technology. So we will also put on another factor, the training through the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration, of those who will manage the issue of accessibility, and we will do nothing at the end. These are our views on the first part. Of course, with regard to the second part, which concerns matters of value added tax in the wider European area, I would like to say: First of all, there is no objection, because we are talking about discharge, which is a reduction of obligations which, after all, are not necessary because of the small amount. What I do not know about is whether the limit of EUR 10 000, which is set, in the current circumstances, and when we have an activity beyond the economy of a state, I consider it negligible. Perhaps the New Democracy colleague is right to say about the EUR 25 000 limit for the discharge, which is the European average. I have no immediate answer to that, but I would put it as a reflection. Of course, whether we put it in this debate or not, since the Ministry of Finance is not present, I understand Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos can neither answer nor create another solution for this. I would just mention it. With these remarks, Mr President, with which I have certainly violated the fact that I have committed myself at first sight, because I see that I am running out of time, the Democratic Consensus will vote at first reading and will vote for the provisions incorporating the provisions of a directive. It will not, however, give a positive vote on those provisions to which I have referred and create additional bureaucracy and a risk of reversing the law. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. The question, Mr Carras, is where the 'yes' lies, since you violated it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u59	I justified it on my own.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u60	Good! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the Greek High School of Düsseldorf. The House welcomes them. We proceed with the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr Christos Hadjisavva. Here, Mr. Hadjisavva, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. I want to help as Golden Dawn a bit because I saw some Members wondering how to make up for the young people of Greece. Those who govern the European Union have predicted and with hordes of illegal immigrants from Asia and Africa are trying to replace the youth of Europe, the workforce. And as one of the paternals of communism said - it was not said by a nationalist or fascist - that, when foreigners of a lower standard of living and working through osmosis, they are entitled to work and that is why they are unwanted. So we have another European directive today that you are about to implement. It is a continuation of the European Union's interventions by means of orders and instructions on everything. So the hard core of the European Union, which does not want nations - states, but wants to see some kind of stubborn states that can control, has devalued the European Union and its utility. The mere thought of the Europeans in the south, mainly for economic and labour, but also, more generally, for the security issues of all the other citizens of the European Union, is illustrated in the questions: 'What do we need the European Union?' "What helps us like states and peoples?" In the economy, it has led us to bankruptcy, led us to the memorials and all these laws that you are voting on together other than Golden Dawn. You blame the Memorandumers when you are opposition, but when you become government or coexistence you vote for them. You have destroyed the farmers with the CAP, the farmers themselves. You've spent a hundred years back working rights. You've made out wages, pensions and benefits. And, of course, with the hard economic and antisocial policy you are implementing, you have deprived many benefits directly or indirectly and to people with disabilities. So the hard core of the European Union does not protect either the values or the security of European citizens. Unguarded borders, changes in the population, purchases of European armed guards with chariots, walls of cement so that jihadists cannot enter and kill them otherwise welcoming Europeans, this is the European Union, which is now supposedly interested in such directives on the rights of people with disabilities. After all, it has been through since 2013 and provision has been made to the European Commission for this directive. Now it was more like an ashes in the people's eyes to match other issues. I don't know who these are, probably you guys were more involved in knowing. And the New Democracy has been listening to it for two weeks to denounce the government and speak of a diversion of parliament and constitution. And while two weeks are denounced by constitutional and parliamentary diversion, two weeks is voting for what the government brings. Even today you're supporting it. But when you talk about a parliamentary and constitutional diversion, the New Democracy and the others of the demoralized arch, in your mind it would be good for the image to be handcuffed to the leader of the Golden Dawn, to Nikos Michaliokos and to the MPs who became without immunity, made with unfounded categories of false witness, to come into custody in the eighteen-months of the Chief and the MPs and all these loathsomes that we were watching live in the afternoon news reports. In this regard, we are dealing with a piece of legislation that is supposed to provide facilities for people with disabilities, but which were, anyway, covered by Greek legislation. As the National Confederacy of Disabled Persons says, in paragraph 6 of Article 21 of the Constitution anyway, it is stated that people with disabilities have the right to enjoy measures ensuring their autonomy, professional integration and participation in the social, economic and political life of the country. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 5a of the Constitution state that everyone has the right to information, as the law defines and everyone has the right to participate in the information society. To facilitate access to electronically moved information, as well as production, exchange and dissemination, is an obligation of the State. Therefore, and as the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises rightly pointed out at the stage of public consultation, the scope of the directive and, consequently, the draft law being adopted is far less limited than our national legislation dictates, since it excludes all websites and applications for portable devices in the wider public and private sectors, with which many people are every day traded. It excludes websites and applications for mobile devices to public broadcasters that play a key role in informing disabled people. It also excludes websites and applications of non-governmental organisations that do not provide basic services to the public, without specifying what they are. Although, for me, no one provides such services. And it does not, of course, refer to applications for portable devices which serve the internal function of the vehicle, with what this implies for workers and those who are candidates for employment. Of course, the issues of the compatibility of applications throughout the public sector, in computerised systems and in databases, are daily reporting issues, because either the state has not predicted to fill these gaps or because some entities alone have taken the initiative to build some applications which are, of course, incompatible with the rest of the system. It is clear from the above that this draft law incorporates a Community directive with provisions that are inadequate and ineffective, which are clearly beyond the existing national legislation. As far as the scope of its application is concerned and the absence of any forecasts for a number of sectors and sectors relating to the daily lives of SMEs is concerned, let us stop at some point as a state, Madam Minister, sliding behind all kinds of European directive, regulation and other legislative initiatives, once again undermining our domestic legislation and our legal culture. Of course, there are some facilities for people with disabilities, but in particular the adoption and incorporation of the directive just as they have sent it to you. The second part, from 14 to 16, - we are voting against the second part and the first part - is clearly a market mandate for opening up markets. In Northern Greece many of the media, whether it's blog, whether they're newspapers, or radio, are thinking about transferring their seats to Bulgaria. Many of them, special enterprises related to media publications, have already done so. You can understand that the European Union is once again serving the market. It forms its economic policy with the orders of the markets. That is why we are voting in favour of the principle. Most of all, however, we are voting against why it is allegedly about access to public websites and applications of disabled people, when government and Minister, people with disabilities have had physical access to public services.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much. We shall proceed to the next rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Vardalis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing the incorporation of European Parliament directives on accessibility for websites and applications for portable devices for public sector bodies, so that they, as is called even by the title of the bill, become more accessible to users and especially people with disabilities. On the basis of the debate that has evolved both in committee and so far in plenary, the first thing to be noted is hypocrisy between the European Union and the Government and the other parties that are in agreement on the substance of this directive. You are supposed to be interested in accessing people's sites with disabilities, when you have literally broken up - both previous governments and today's - any social policy that concerns them. What should anyone want first? The thousands of disabled and long-term sufferers who have passed through the “slaughter” of the Disability Certification Centres and have remained without an allowance? Let us now assume that the CESR website is being updated, that there is full accessibility for disabled people. Will the CSR stop playing this role of the slaughterhouse? Of course not. That is the essence of the matter. And the others are secondary and triumphant, although they are necessary and we agree on that. Tens of thousands lost disability pensions, as a decade ago pensioners numbered about 14% of all pensioners. Today there are only 6% left. In particular, workers in the private sector, when they are victims of an accident at work or when a serious illness occurs, the first period may be granted a temporary disability pension. However, along the way with a small conversion of the disability rate, they stop taking it. That's the reality. Welfare expenditure in the years of the capitalist economic crisis decreased by 50%. In August 2016, for example, the IKA Board of Directors, a few months before changing the law and creating the EKA, reduced the budget for disability pensions by 25%. Today, according to the data of the Coordinating Committee for Disabled Persons, there are over 500,000 disabled and only 185,000 are paid. These are the results of your policy and of course the list is long. It's not over here. For example, because of the underfinancing - which I mentioned earlier - the image of the institutions is totally unacceptable. All institutions have been recruiting permanent staff since 1995. The shortcomings - which have normally been created over all these years - are partly covered with few contractors who, until they are trained, are already leaving. They sit a year and make me an extension for another year and then they get fired and others come. There are also huge shortages in institutions, including consumables, sanitary, etc. Will anyone wonder: Should disabled people not have equal access to the websites? I think there's no second answer. Of course I don't have to discuss it. We do not disagree on that. But you are dealing with secondary and three-fold issues and on the essentials - what I mentioned earlier - which affect the lives of the disabled and the patient in time, take all those measures that make their lives unviable. That is why we say that your attitude is hypocritical. In the context of trade, health privatization cannot be solved in the interests of the disabled. In our opinion, the way out for the disabled is in their organization, in their struggle, with demands and goals of fighting on the basis of their current needs, current needs. The second thing we want to note is that this ratification of the directive complements the European Union's policy on electronic accessibility, with the aim of establishing common rules in all the Member States of the European Union - I think, we do not disagree - to limit uncertainty about website designers and applications for portable devices and to strengthen interoperability. In other words, what does the European Union want to achieve through this directive? It does what it does to the whole economy, that is to say to all sectors of the economy. It is trying to unify the website planning market, to lay down such conditions, conditions and rules of accessibility, so as to facilitate so-called healthy competition, to limit the fragmentation of the internal European market and within a single market to more easily dominate large groups, because they can meet all the conditions that come under the directive and we are now discussing its integration with this draft law. The proposed regulation, however, also has another objective. Take a look at Article 4. I read: 'The public bodies must plan, develop and operate on their own means' - be careful - 'or through third parties' - under their supervision - 'websites, applications for portable devices as part of ensuring e-accessibility'. It is also a question of modernising the public with a view to contributing more generally to economic growth, namely, the development of the profits of business groups, because this is how the economy is designed. It works on the basis of profit, it's capitalist. To enable the public to put the regulatory framework in place, to keep a Register of Public Sites and Applications, to ensure easy and rapid accessibility of enterprises to any information. This will all be done by public supervision. This is also the role of the urban state, namely, ensuring equal conditions in the action of business groups, to help their action with a view to profit. The aim, in our view, is a clear one and there is no other way of strengthening the right to freedom of movement and distribution within the European Union. The right to freedom of establishment for enterprises active in this sector to create a homogeneous framework for the design and development of websites and applications for portable devices. In such a single market, the public will have access to groups to design the websites and other applications that they need and we all know who can participate in such competitions and who will take the corresponding jobs. These goals you do not hide them themselves. On the contrary, in the explanatory statement at the end of the fourth and at the beginning of the fifth page I think you are revealing. To read just one point: 'Defining the technical specifications for the development of websites and applications for portable devices' - take note - 'is necessary for the cohesion of the relevant internal market'. That is what the European Union is interested in. In conclusion, what do you care? The single market, the definition of standards, the rapid accessibility of companies to information, and all of this you dress with the citizens' access to the information services they offer. After all, I think the new Republic's rapporteur also mentioned it, the European Union's digital agenda is one of the seven pillars of the Europe 2020 strategy for the development of the European Union's economy. And this directive is precisely part of this objective, in order to promote innovation, economic development by exploiting new fields for overcompensated funds that cannot be exploited. You all say that the Internet is the absolute freedom to information and to the economy, that it breaks the bonds that lock workers - you tell the citizens - by allowing uninterrupted information and information on the one hand and the economic success of the innovation on the other. But the truth is different. As internet capabilities and applications are more than obvious and important indeed, it is therefore in these conditions a huge issue for who controls the internet. And you all know the reality, regardless of whether some of you close your eyes to it. The search for information, for example, is now made by two or three search engines which account for more than 95% of the relevant services. The audiovisual material is also in turn stored on two - three large websites. In practice the same design applies to all online services. We are talking about an area where production, storage, transfer of all kinds of information, whatever this information symbolizes, is extremely controlled by big capital, large monopolistic groups, imperialist states. In capitalism the internet evolves with a focus on maximising the profitability of business groups, aspiring control by monopolies and state and imperialist centers, exploiting it as a tool for collecting information from all kinds of secret services. His applications in the economy are drowned by the only incentive that this way of organising the economy, namely capitalist production, can become acquainted with, and is drowned by the incentive of profit. Thus today's internet applications in education, health, for example, culture, are based on the shielding of the profitability of monopolistic groups. The use of the Internet for the benefit of social needs requires, in the view of the JRC, a radically different way of development, where the main means of production will constitute social and state property, based on labour control and part-time labour participation. Only thus can it ensure cheaper, easier, faster, safer and universal access and communication, information, new knowledge, information and entertainment via the Internet. Only that's how digital dreams can find justice. The second part of the draft law, incorporating Article 1 of Directive 2455, makes changes to the Code of Added Value Tax. In any case, in our opinion, this is an anti-grassroots tax which is the biggest tax, the largest revenue in the budget and the incomes of millions of people in the households. In general, the tax policy of all governments through state subsidies and all kinds of aid helps transfer even more of the social wealth than workers in capital, take from the workers and give business groups. This particular article of the directive is trying to regulate who and how and where it will pay. The invoking of the fight against tax evasion and corruption is, in our view, hypocritical, because in addition to all others, in particular the free movement of capital, it is a delusion to claim this, namely that it will hit tax evasion. For all the above reasons, we will vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministers for National Defence and Economics tabled a draft law on 6-22019: 'Standardisation of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the "Labir High School". The House welcomes them. Mr Katsikis has the floor from the Independent Greeks. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction promotes the harmonisation of the rules and technical specifications of all the Member States of the European Union on the status of bodies in the public sector and, in particular, the provision of digital, online services offered to citizens. The need for harmonised legislation as far as possible has arisen from the fact that Europe has wide divergences and differences between states in terms of the current technical standards in the field of information and communication technologies. In any event, the incorporation of European Directive 2016/2102 is necessary in order for our country to fulfil its obligations through the application of Community law in its domestic law and to avoid any infringement due to the non-inclusion of Community provisions. The purpose of this provisions is to ensure the right to participate in the functions of cyber space and to facilitate the inclusion in the new digital age of a large proportion of disadvantaged and at risk, I would say, of socially excluded, because of age, because of economic resources, due to disability, but also because of limited knowledge, i.e. problems related to so-called digital illiteracy. The aim is to provide unfeasible and cost-effective mass access to all types of electronic information and service of the public sector structures, in order to overcome the difficulties relating to social and economic differences, but even to those relating to geographical distance. In addition, with the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee of 2013, digital integration must be the right of all citizens, regardless of their social position. In addition, according to Article 5a of the Constitution, everyone has the right to participate in the information society. The facilitation of access to electronic information, as well as the production, exchange and dissemination of information, is therefore an obligation for the State, while respecting the guarantees provided for. By means of the seventeen articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, equal access to the administrative services of the State shall be ensured in a way which achieves citizens' quality of service, in terms of equal and free access to Internet information. Social justice is being established and the spectrum of digital services is being expanded, so public sector bodies gain greater validity, reliability and social sensitivity. The State, through the provision of digitalised services, undertakes to make the information websites compatible with the general public, while showing particular attention to disabled people, so that they can enjoy the full rights of the Internet and obtain as many benefits as possible. In any case, we must all help improve the daily lives of disabled people, ensure their participation in all areas of social life and reduce the difficulties they face, especially in the area of their transactions with the public. Particular attention shall be paid to making websites friendly and user-friendly to the trading citizens in a way that is certified through easy accessibility to administrative services, clearing of information and the possibility of submitting comments on shortcomings or omissions. All public bodies and their websites bound by this draft law shall apply the public information and Internet interaction criteria, in accordance with the standards of European Directive 2016/2102, to the Register of Public Sites and Applications. The National Confederacy of Persons with Disabilities as a social partner of the State in matters of combating discrimination against persons with disabilities and protecting their constitutional and international rights shall assume an active role in controlling and expressing an opinion on compliance with the required operating standards of the websites. At the same time, the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information is required to report to the President of the Parliament, in the first two months of each year, on the results of the bodies in the public sector, in order to assess whether they meet the required operating criteria. The provisions of this draft law are also attempting to close the digital skills gap, which affects both social and economic prosperity. The conditions for improving the quality of life and supporting the social integration of citizens are created in the digital age. There are also possibilities for gaining skills through education and training services and for all civil servants in the public sector directly involved with the digitalised service of the citizen. With this mission, the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration is responsible for undertaking training and training programmes for staff in the public sector. In conclusion and beyond the contractual obligation resulting from our status as a Member State, this draft law contains a number of necessary improvements to the public service framework, while the changes introduced are in complete harmony with the requirements of the times. For all these reasons, Mr President, the Independent Greeks are voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u66	Thank you. Mr. Saridis, the special speaker of the Centron Union, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand the positive attitude of almost all the groups in the European Parliament towards the incorporation of Directive 2102 into Greek law, and on the other hand, bearing in mind the fact that our country has a long way to go to respond effectively to the constitutional requirement for equality and equalisation, I felt it more useful to insist on those points that highlight the spirit rather than the letter of the draft law being discussed. It seems to me that this choice is very correct, because it is very simple, while what we are doing today is extremely important, but we cannot prevent anyone from labeling them as a drop in the ocean. It's right, but it's very little. She's fine, but it's not enough. They're in the right direction, but they don't get there. Because, therefore, we will have to legislate again and again on issues relating to equality and equality, as our fellow citizens experience them, I think it is worth standing for a while and looking at how we should do this, because what we really care about is achieving tangible results as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, my first point is this: when we legislate for our fellow citizens with disabilities, we must not feel that we are supposed to do so thanks to one of them. We are obliged against them to ensure their rights, not because they are HERE, but because they are Greek citizens like us. Nowhere is provision for separation between small and medium-sized citizens. All citizens are equal to the law, all citizens have the same rights, regardless of whether they are an AMEI or not. In my opinion, this is the most important point we should insist on, that our fellow citizens of the LEADER are only asking the organized Greek state for it to be treated as equal citizens and they expect us, the legislators, to find the ways to ensure this. If accessibility is to be made, then we should be concerned with all aspects of the daily life of the LEADER, and not just with the promise that at some point in the future, and on condition that the websites and internet applications of the public sector bodies will satisfy the principle of accessibility, as is the case with the individual principles of comprehensibility, utility and comprehensibility, but also with the firmness of the accessible content. Ladies and gentlemen, there are our fellow citizens who, at the moment we're talking about, who at the moment we're legislating for them, still feel imprisoned inside their own homes, feel locked up because of wrong choices, because of wrong decisions. So when they hear of accessibility on the Internet, and even limited, while they cannot go to the stand or fear that they may have to visit a public service for another reason, you can understand that there is no room for celebrations, that is to say, to celebrate or believe that we have finally begun to treat them with the respect they deserve. The government claims that we are legislating for the good of MEDIs, and indeed that we are doing so, having regard to all their comments. Unfortunately, these are not the messages I receive. What we are doing today is very little and not enough. What we do today could call it symbolic. That is why we too want to send a message to our fellow citizens that they are the first priority, and that the Greek Parliament knows that it must legislate properly to ensure their rights, we will vote in favour as a Centro Association of Centres for today's integration, stressing that all it needs, all it needs to do at some point, is the famous political will. Today the truth of the HEIs imposes unanimity in the Chamber. It doesn't exist. He's hitting her. So let it be a good start to finally understand - on the basis of the rights of the LEADER - how partnerships, consensus and understanding are good advisors for the future of our country. We are therefore voting in favour of this ratification in principle. The articles will be put to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too. Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, even on one simple thing, namely the incorporation of two directives, we see the marks - which have been put forward for your own governance, that is, benevolence, incompetence and idealism again in all its greatness. We therefore have a simple incorporation of directives on issues on which we obviously agree. I do not think that we need, in particular for 2016/2012, a directive which concerns the accessibility of disabled people to websites, but also applications for portable devices in the public sector, to discuss whether this is good or bad or whether this should or should not be done. Obviously, it has to be done. So, in principle, we should all be positive about this, and because it is a measure necessary to alleviate digital exclusion, but also because we are obviously all in favour of supporting people with disabilities. You are, however, coming here again, looking at the glimpse of the parliamentary procedure. Both of these directives are incorporated into Greek legislation with one - as our rapporteur, Mr Theocharis, said - we are twenty-first in the European Union in integration - and the other in time. You do not give the floor to the bodies we should listen to. And why not listen to them and read just their letter? You come with an enormous incompetence, without planning, without details, without having predicted what will happen over a period of time, without genuine costing integration and with your well-known ideology, restrictive, not applying this directive to the internal networks, that is, to officials who are disabled or to the wider public sector, as if they were not to use the services used by all citizens, so that we were not interested in having access, when it comes to water or electricity. And, of course, this is a combination of ideology and incompetence with full management failure, which one can now predict beforehand. We have the known confusion. We have two ministries dealing with a simple matter. One ministry will make a record and who knows how long it will take to do this, judging by other records that have been made - this is your Ministry, Madam Minister - and the other, the "Ministry of Digital Inadequacy", will have supervision and control, and in three years from now it will make us a progress report and every year it will come here to the House to tell us what has happened to this issue. I am not going to go into any more detail, because our rapporteur, Mr Theocharis, has been very well covered by our rapporteur, Mr Theocharis, nor am I going to be here, in my time, in order to support the benefits offered by the so-called fourth industrial revolution, for the opportunities it offers, for the need for the digital transformation of the country, nor for the unequivocal obligation that the state has to exploit new technologies for the benefit of people with disabilities, much more than to ensure that their accessibility to services that are now part of our daily lives, using our mobile to get into different services. There is no need to discuss, to break open doors to them. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] But I am also standing in the fact that the country's digital transformation into this great national survival bet, and again the Ministry of Digital Policy has dealt with something, which should be super-party, politically indisputable and consensual, with ideology, incompetence and eligence, not using sufficient European resources. If one reads the first progress report submitted by the Ministry itself - so that we do not argue about the source of data and valuation, the valuation made by the Ministry itself - no projects have been included in the NSRF and resources are used from the Public Investment Programme for the implementation of projects. The so-called flagship projects, which are included in the Public Investment Programme, are implemented with delays, are implemented through complaints, even by SYRIZA parties, such as in the case of intelligent agriculture, photographic competitions, have become the management ball of the Ping Pong between the ETF and the Ministry responsible. And just yesterday for a simple but extremely critical task for the digital transformation of the public sector, the digital signature, after three years of delay and successive extensions, a simple tender from the Public Investment Programme, the Court of Auditors comes to make a decision that means - with the best interpretation! - additional delay in the implementation of this very important project for the Greek State, which will also have very significant economic benefits and benefits for citizens. So what are we talking about here today? Even this simple thing can't be done by the Ministry, because he doesn't want, he doesn't know and he can't! Ladies and gentlemen, for the New Democracy and especially for its President and tomorrow's Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, digital transformation is not a slogan, it is an objective that will be achieved through a government structure of the Ministry, which will have the Prime Minister himself and will report directly to him, because digital transformation is a national survival bet and we cannot be delayed due to your ideology, incompetence and imperfection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u70	The Minister has the floor for eighteen minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to express my satisfaction and thank you both for your positions, but also for your broad consensus and intention to support the vote on the draft law, which deals with equal access for vulnerable groups and disabled people to the public's websites and applications. I believe that this is an important message sent by the Greek Parliament in terms of these population groups and the need to support them. I shall, of course, refer more specifically to the remarks made by the rapporteurs and speakers. First of all, it is clear - and I think that there we all agree, possibly from a political and ideological point of view - that the digital transformation of the economy and society is one of the greatest challenges, but also deeper cultural changes that humanity lives in. That is why we have opportunities before us, but we also have risks that we must face up to. This is not, of course, limited only at national level, but also at European and international level, whether it is about guaranteeing the rights, personal data, freedoms, democracy, avoidance of major multinational private interests - the need, therefore, to regulate at international and European level - either the dangers of new inequalities, social and intra-regional within the Union, as well as new digital exclusions. There have been references to all these issues and a wider debate is also important. The directive and the draft law, which we are discussing today, are part of this effort. I have committed myself to informing the House of a number of efforts made with regard to open data as a question of our country's performance has been raised. Beyond any constructive or opposition criticism, we must of course recognise the weaknesses and where we must speed up, but also the positive results. That is why, as I had promised, in this House the 2018 table, by the European Commission, which shows that, at European Union level, in terms of open data, we are eighth in all countries, and indeed with very good performance, as we are, as we expressly say on page 2, you will see it - on fast trackers, that is to say, those who are moving fast. [[At this point, Minister Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] As far as the issue of vulnerable groups and access to them is concerned, the phenomenon of disability such as the World Health Organisation itself reports is a phenomenon that is evolving, as it has, on the one hand, the personal characteristics of the disabled person and, on the other, the natural and digital environment in which he lives and moves. The digital transformation of society therefore comes and broadens the needs of support for vulnerable groups and disabled people to cope with. This is why, moreover, European and internationally recognised as a fundamental human right to access disabled people and to digital structures and functions. We are incorporating a directive into national legal order today which is positive in this direction. At this point I would like to refer to the rapporteur of KINAL, Mr Karras, who spoke about the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. The report makes no comment on the draft law. The reference you make is a constant observation for each directive incorporates. For our part, because we have given great importance to the incorporation of this directive, we have not opted for restrictive integration, as other countries - for example Belgium - but for an advanced incorporation procedure to include additional safeguards and guarantees, to which I am going to refer. As far as the title of the directive is concerned, as I said to the committee that it is a matter of translation from the European Union, which we cannot change. As far as consultation is concerned, I think it was mutually accepted that we have made a wide-ranging public consultation and that we have full support for the National Disability Confederation. Mr. Theochari, you said we claimed to have it. I imagine that a memorandum tabled in the House is not a claim. I will not do so because the majority rapporteur, Mr Ballis, has already done so, but I think it is an indication that we have a very good cooperation and that we have taken note of all the comments. It is also a key factor in the implementation of this draft law. That is something that I think we all welcome intergrouply. It is true, therefore, that this draft law comes not just to establish access to it, but also to set a set of parameters for its better implementation. I would like here to pay particular attention to the reason why we are establishing this register, because there have been many comments. We have heard criticism from two different sides. Mr. Theocharis said that he doubted whether it would work quickly and effectively and Mr. Karras also opposed the establishment of the register. Why are we setting up the register? It is not true that there is a problem of public information or access to public websites. They're working anyway right now. So the register is not going to prevent their operation. The register is the insurance link that will certify, the public websites and applications as regards the accessibility of disabled persons and the correct application of this Directive. That is why we also have the agreement of people with disabilities, namely the ESDC, the social institution of disabled people, in order to ensure that they have been taken into account and that this directive is implemented faithfully. Mr Theocharis and Mrs Asmakopoulou questioned whether we were prepared, that is to say they told us in a few words that 'you are bringing the directive because you are obliged, we do not know if you are in a position to believe it, but we do not know when you will apply it'. As I had committed myself to the committee - and today I would like to be consistent with you - I will present to you the six commitments of the action plan that we have already prepared as a Ministry, and which, of course, we will have, as I hope, the vote today on the draft law, we will also be able to formally present. The six points in the action plan for the implementation of the law are as follows: Firstly, the creation of an application for implementation within a month - to carry out parliamentary scrutiny - from the publication of the law in the Official Journal of the Government of the Public Applications website, to which will include the entities whose websites and applications for mobile devices comply with the requirements of the law, together with all relevant elements. So it does not refer to the bells. We are ready in a month to put it into effect. Secondly, the adoption of the necessary circular directives to public bodies, both as regards the implementation of the directive and the inclusion in the register. Thirdly, cooperation between the relevant Ministries of Administrative Reconstruction and Digital Policy to promote and implement the rules of e-accessibility with a number of specific actions for which, if we have the opportunity and if the committee is interested - you are here, Mr President of the committee - I would be happy to have a debate on these issues after a month. Fourthly, as provided for in the draft law, actions of specific training programmes through the EMCDDA. On this, Mr. Carras, I'd like to stand. I'd expect you to say hello, not think it's a bureaucratic burden. Because as you know, the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration has two important institutions operating within it, the National School of Public Administration, which is one of the major conquests for the upgrading and maintenance of public administration, and the Institute for Training. That's his job. The Training Institute makes many programs. We should be happy to inform you of the number of programmes which he has received in the public administration. Rather, you should welcome that for issues that all of you want to implement, we say that there will be specific programmes again in cooperation with RESEMA, which will have multiple targeting and orientation. On the one hand, so that public administrations can respond to the new needs of this directive and the functioning of the register, as each body and every ministry should also be able to have the relevant public officials meeting the requirements of this directive. You understand that websites are multiples of operators. Maybe a ministry has a lot of websites, doesn't have one. This is also a comment for Mr Theocharis. You know that an entity can have many websites depending on the topics. It is also a matter of technological maturation that I have referred to the Commission. On the other hand, we also have public administration officials who are the same people with disabilities, and for them we seek training programmes when to respond to their responsibilities. The fifth point of the action plan we are going to announce is the cooperation of our Ministry with the social polycentric of ADEDY to inform trade unions about the implementation of this draft law, as well as with the EBRD, of compliance with the websites and applications of the municipalities and regions. The sixth point is the constant cooperation of public sector bodies and the issues you consider necessary, i.e. in relation to complaints and complaints. There is the procedure mentioned in the draft law, with the responsibility for monitoring the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, which is supervised, in addition, the well-established provisions of the public administration, as well as the role provided for in the Citizens' Counselor, an institution which, by the UN itself, recognizes responsibility for the rights of persons with disabilities. I come to the point made by Mr Theocharis and Mrs Asmakopoulou in relation to the closed groups. I want to be clear. The Directive stipulates that only closed groups of people are excluded from the network, but in no case is it public. In other words, the internal network of a public body is not considered closed. In other words, they will also have access to this directive with regard to the internal networks of the public. There is no such interpretation of the draft law. I therefore think - and as I said at the outset, I am delighted that there is a wider consensus and we are at your disposal in all efforts to implement this directive and the draft law incorporating it - that we must have the cooperation and information of the committee of Parliament. You will allow me to make a comment, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of this draft law. Because it has been said once again - and this is true - the need to staff with worthy and competent officials of public administration, as well as the question of the weaknesses which public administration has had after ten years of crisis and memoranda. We had before last week - the opportunity to talk about the need for targeted and planned public recruitment and public renewal. Because, as you can see, the digital transformation of the public is something that goes hand in hand and with its staffing with new scientists, with new officials and administrative staff who have another familiarity around all these issues, when today's average public, due to the inability to recruit during the crisis, has exceeded fifty years. However, I would like to make a reference here and inform the House. Yesterday, we heard the Chief of Police Vice-Population, Mr Mitsotakis, at a meeting with the Nurse Association, saying that this government somehow wastes the money on the budget in order to hire cleanliness - referring to the 3K on the cleanliness of the municipalities - and not where it is needed for nurses. I would therefore like to make a few points. First of all, 3K's hires for cleaning are based on municipal fees and does not charge the state budget. So I also inform the Chief of Staff Responsibility, to be clear. On the other hand, I imagine that there is no party, any party in this Chamber, which underestimates the role of workers in cleanliness in municipalities for the health and quality of life of citizens and cities. Secondly, I should also like to inform the House that the recruitments approved in the last few months of 2018 as regards nurses and other staff of the public hospitals of the National Health System for the year 2018 are a thousand four hundred. These are the exact details that I give you on the basis of what we have signed and approved. Let us be clear so that there is a clear picture. And, of course, for 2019, according to the Prime Minister's commitment, nine thousand posts, according to the rule of recruitment one by one, health will be a key priority. I can only make a comment by closing down. There cannot, on the one hand, be this criticism, which, as I mentioned, is unfounded with the elements I am giving you, and, on the other, we can hear the Chief of Anti-Population propose that rule one by five, which would mean from the nine thousand posts of 2019 only in a thousand eight hundred posts, which would hardly cover the needs of the productive schools of the police, the Army and the permanent operating needs. They would therefore not have given the opportunity to recruit health. Unfortunately, I think that whether these are said for opposition or the logic of privatising the wider public service is behind it, such as cleanliness in the municipalities. So we're moving on. We are moving forward on the basis of our plan, and I would once again like to thank you very much for the creative debate and the wider consensus that is being formed on the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Minister. You should tell me what order you want the parliamentary representatives to speak. In the order of the parties? Is anyone in a hurry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u73	As you wish, Madam President, or in the order of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Mada, are you ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u75	Madam President, I always speak last.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u76	Madam President, with the reverse order of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u77	So it is Mr. Megalamoustakas, Mrs. Tsarouhas, Mr. Pafilis, Mr. Iliopoulou, Mr. Koutsoukos and Mr. Javaras. Here you go, Mr. Javarra. They don't want the others. You have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in my previous part-session as a parliamentary representative in the parliamentary procedure, we were discussing a bill which was due to the initiative of your Ministry. And then I remember making a few remarks with the character of linguistic excellence and you thought - and you said that - that was a sign on my part that I had not read, I had not studied the bill. But be careful to tell you something. If a parliamentarian comes to make linguistic remarks on the legal excellence of a draft law, it means that he has exhausted the study so much that unstable language expressions create a problem in understanding the legislative text. So now I come here to deal with the title of this bill you bring, and you will probably tell me in a little while: 'Read just the title'. But that's not the way it is. I too believe that you are well-beinged and will understand the meaning of what I am about to tell you. So you say: 'Integration of a directive on accessibility of websites and applications for portable devices for public sector operators'. If you really work with the grammar and editorial phrases, this series of words, the meaning of which comes out is that these arrangements that you are bringing today, which are very important, which are all of them, which we are saying at last that this incorporation may have been delayed, but a regulation on the self-evident obligation of the State and the state to ensure the participation of people with disabilities in the information society, yes, we are in favour. But the point is: You have legislated on portable operators' devices and on accessibility of websites to portable devices. So when you talk about it, there's a little difference. It is the difference that we learned in high school between "general objective" and "general subjective". These, you will tell me, are very important issues. Uh, no, Minister. The world in which we live and which, as representatives of the people, we are obliged to change every day through the laws that we are voting on in this House, first of all awaits us to understand it. And the understanding of the world is as much as it is, whatever the relationship we have with the language. A very great wise, great philosopher of the 20th century, Ludwig Vitgenstein said that everything is flying in the tongue. And another great linguist of ours here, Hatzidakis, said: "The limits of my language, the limits of my mind, the limits of my world." With uncomplicated texts that violate the elementary structures of the Greek language, neither can the law really function with its provisions, with its regulations, with its effectiveness. You will also allow me to tell you that even though someone might have pointed it out to you - because I heard that you made a reference to your speech, I do not know if Mr Carras said so, I might have abstained from the Chamber - you insist that this is a translation issue. Uh, no, it's not a translation issue. And I'll tell you why it's not a translation matter. Unfortunately, the fact that we are living and operating in the single area of freedom and justice established by the European Union does enable us to adopt texts that have been written in English or French, and these texts should be translated, as you quite rightly pointed out. However, translation does not mean, by word, the dictionary rendering the meaning from French to English of a particular language type, but it means the rendering to the Greek equivalent meaning, the equal meaning of a particular phrase from English or French. So, we're not talking about correspondence, we're talking about signification. Since, therefore, the meaning of this phrase cannot give rise to the original meaning which this directive had in mind when it was intended to ensure in the European Union's territorial boundaries for all individuals and especially for those who have the right of indivisibility, the non-discriminatory participation in the information society, that is what you at least had to respect. And you know why you had to respect it above all? Because this over-information in which we are obliged to live and move, this daily intake and assimilation of thousands, millions of information, has made us collections of performances or specific forms of knowledge, but all this must be in order for them to function in the good of society and in the interests of democracy to become part of fundamental social importance. There is therefore a contradiction between information and importance. So, should this entire legislative text be incorporated under the perspective of serving effectively both Article 19 of the Convention, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is binding on us and on all the States participating in the European Union, which they are doing? They say that there can be no discrimination in any way on the basis of disability or on the grounds of the lack of physical or any other person living within the European Union. This has to do with not just declaring certain human rights, but on the basis of the general principle that the state must serve, it must respect, it must recognise the dignity of the person. And the dignity of the person is insulted when a disabled person cannot access public sector websites or applications, and most of all on a daily basis when disabled people are seeing that they cannot go to a cafeteria, that they cannot go to a recreational area, that they cannot go to a museum or to a free space, live and enjoy their relationship with the goods of this society and this civilization and this state as decent people. These are the remarks I had to make. They may seem important to you, but within them they hide an agony. And this anxiety is that I see that every day we lose the meaning of life. We are losing the meaning of the fundamental meanings on which this life is organized, as Kastoriadis said, so that we are those receivers who collect information and that we are all proud because we know very well how to use fingers. We are now talking about facing an anthropological mutation. The way in which some use their fingers to press the keys on portable devices does indeed create admiration. But from this point where there is nothing but the involvement in information to the point of being, moving, living, being decent, serving the fundamental social meanings on which the social relationship is based, on which the service for protecting and institutional guarantees of fundamental freedoms and individual rights enshrined in the Constitution is based, there is indeed a matter for the government, despite its sensitivities, rather than what the Prime Minister said in his earlier letter that his democratic sensitivity is being affected when they say it is being blackmailed, all this is far from being integrated into a perspective of a civilised society. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u79	Thank you too for the consistency in time, Mr Javarra. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fofi Gennimata and the Members of her party have tabled today on 7-2-2019 a proposal for a law: 'Repeal of the law of 4472/17 reducing duty, restoring collective agreements and determining minimum wages by the social partners, creating new jobs'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal for a law that you have just mentioned, Madam President, is the commitment of Mrs Gennamata and a challenge to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group that we will bring about a regulation to abolish the tax reduction that the SYRIZA Government - ANEL voted in 2017. And because our SYRIZA colleagues say a lot every time, they have a glorious field, because I would like to remind you and the President of this House that all the proposals of laws we have tabled are pending and indeed with reports from the General Accounting Office. This, obviously, does not honor Parliament and parliamentary function, and much more I hear too many SYRIZA colleagues who call on us to return to political dialogue and regularity. We want political dialogue and regularity in an institutional way, and we do not have the debate on the coffee shop and whether it sells lawns. If you wish, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge is present and we are waiting. Don't try to abolish duty and refer it to the New Democracy. Bring it in. Our proposal is complete and processed. I come to the point, ladies and gentlemen. My first point, Minister, concerns the fact that you did not assist the committee in calling on our rapporteur. We know that too many times - I have also been rapporteurs in large volumes of directives, hundred and fifty articles - there were law-abiding articles, there has been consultation, but there has always been a useful presence for the bodies to locate failures in the formalities, and much more so that the wording in many articles - also the Scientific Committee of Parliament - has to do with the responsibilities of the national legislator. I put it, so it doesn't create a bad precedent. We have listened carefully to the Minister's response to the challenges of new times and e-government. In this general position, no one can disagree. I would say that I am pleased that by exercising authority, colleagues of SYRIZA, you are becoming better people. I steal that from Mr. Javarra, my fellow citizen and my compatriot. He told another conversation here. Up to the churches go and candles come on. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, when the PASOK Government in 2011 introduced here the law on e-government, your words were fiery, because "the capitalist state cannot be transformed" said your parliamentary representative, Dricas - is now a SYRIZA MEP - and defeated Mr Ragosi for the misleading project. Now, of course, with Mr Ragosi you have found them around the Prespes and you have them in the supplements to the pseudo-centre left with Mrs Papakostas and the other extreme right, who have been mutated through chairs on the centre-left side. Emblematic reform of e-government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that it was "GENERAL". The "DENMARK" enabled the administration to inform the citizens of its actions, to be subject to popular control, as the old leftists would say, and in many cases, of course, to be arrested for stealing moments, as if the Ministry of Finance - Mrs Papanatsiou - had not posted expenditure and then brought us to legitimise them. This project of "GENERAL" was fought because it had another logic within it about how power manages what the people have given it, with accountability, transparency and efficiency. Mr. Javara, the Minister of Administrative Reform, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has attempted to undermine the "DIAGY" by removing part of the acts to be posted. And since many remember from the New Democracy's side that there were certain achievements at that time and credited them, with our removal from governance, I would like to remind the House that Mrs Christophilopoulos was then publicly placed - and the PASOK - and we forced Mr Mitsotakis to take this 'HUMAN' s sluggish initiative back. But, on the side of SYRIZA, in addition to the actions I made a little mention, there are voices, such as this statue, of the Syrian government policy of Mr Polakis, which says "see these things they made to have ten levels of control to eat themselves". Do you want me to give you Motamo his statement? I have her here, don't need to, they're familiar. Consequently, what is important in this debate is to see what forces consistently and consistently introduce into public innovative regulations, such as those of e-government, to make public administration more effective, to facilitate the work of public officials and make it more accessible to citizens. And not to say that I only criticise the government, I would like to recognise the initiative of EKKA to electronicise the demands of civil servants for the non-deleting of their claim for the Christmas gift, so that they do not run on lawyers and mediators. It is an initiative that demonstrates the enormous potential of e-government. But come on, let's see something else. Mr. Karras referred to the involvement of the Ministry of Digital Policy. I want you to know that where we're listening to the Department of Digital Policy, we're saving our clothes so we'll have half the money. Because I imagine, Minister, that you are accommodating yourself, you will not allow Mr. Pappas to make a contest to tell us how to set up the register. Because Mr. Pappas has acquired special know-how to set up competitions. I would remind this House of the competition for precise agriculture, where instead of five satellites we would need, it made them thirty-five.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u81	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u82	For digital agriculture, I said, Mr. Comrade. And the whole scientific community got up and had to get the contest back. I would remind you of Mr Pappa's other achievement on the 'IRIDA'. In your ministry, Minister, officials who are pioneers and who have a sense of duty and the possibilities offered by the new technologies have benefited from a loan from the army, and they have created an electronic document-government system that IRIDA, if I remember it well, has encouraged your predecessor, Mr. Bernardakis. We have other accounts with Mr Vernardakis, but I want to refer to this. So Mr Pappas has decided to institutionalise it and has launched a competition for that too. And because the competition didn't take him out in December, he came here asking for an extension. What's the result? The result is that the Court of Auditors came out yesterday and annulled the tender because the technical offer had not been assessed. So there's something rotten in the kingdom of Denmark, there's the Ministry of Digital Policy. Minister, it's good to get out of the way because I'm afraid you'll regret the people you've been in trouble. Sometime you'll regret sooner or later. We are therefore in a position of principle, ladies and gentlemen, our 'yes' in this directive. The remarks made by our rapporteur, Mr Kararas, are also substantiated in relation to the bureaucracy that creates certain powers of interministerial decision and the involvement of the Ministry of Digital Policy, in particular in the matter of imprinting the provisions of the directive with a language which is not understood to Greek citizens. If we read, for example, Article 1 in the explanatory statement and read it in the draft law, we will see the difference as day by night. It is illustrated in the simple Greek language what this bill wants to do. While going to the law article, we will see that someone can understand it and quite the opposite. I would like to finish my position so that I do not extend to the rest of the news. I don't like doing it. I want to be within this and say by closing down that we have presented as a Change Movement, with decisions of our last conference, an integrated framework for what the ordinary citizen would say electronic bypass to the public administration. Because when you cannot speed up the processes of administrative change, when they have garbed - mobility, digital organograms and a number of other changes that are necessary - then you need to use the technologies to bring people too close to the administration by circumventing bureaucracy itself. A friend of mine went to serve in a public service supposed to have e-government. He went to eight o'clock, took number 120, went up to five to six floors to find out where he was going to be served, and when he arrived at lunch the service order was only in 10. So he had to go the other day. That's what we need to change. Here I would say that there is a consensus, provided that there is political will and that each government does not incorporate the necessary changes at any time in political terms, as the current government does, in other policies which have to do with either small and medium-sized or wider economic interests. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u83	Madam President, I would like to make a two-minute speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u84	Wait a minute to make an announcement, Mr. Javarra. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELDRERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-nine students and students and three teachers attending from the 5th Highlands. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Can it be the intervention for a minute, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u85	Sure. I want to reply to my fellow Member and my fellow Member, Mr Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u86	They're not local competitions. It's essentially on the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u87	No, I honor him and I appreciate him. But in the context of the parliamentary conflict that we have to have for reasons which have been said and which must not be left unanswered, I must note that KINAL sometimes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u88	Change movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u89	PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR. That's the title.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u90	The Change Movement falls victim to an extroverted ambiguity against SYRIZA on the one hand and against New Democracy on the other. So, here, once he acknowledges that Mr. Mitsotakis did not exclude what might have provided for a bill by "DIAGY" to praise him and publicly recognise his sensitivity as Minister. On the other hand, however, I think that in a way that I cannot forgive him, I can't forgive him, and he does not mention dozens of cases of exemption from the "GENERAL" state expenditure that we have seen in the last four years from today's government, and we have certainly repeatedly hampered them. That and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Mademoiselle needs to answer who they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u92	Yeah, but that's not how we do business. Come on, Mr. Manda. Talk about the bill for people to hear what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u93	That is what we are talking about, Madam President. It's all within the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Madam President. I'll start with two remarks. I share Mr Javarra's concerns about fundamental rights and the meanings in general, in a society of information and digital development, which is indeed huge, as I share the anxiety on the part of Mr Koutsoukos, a compatriot of Mr Javarras, to present this fact in one way or another, on the grounds of its existence. At the present time, therefore, it brought the proposal for a law - which I do not devalue at all, politically, for the abolition of tax. It's the same thing he did in relation to pensions. But someplace these things have a limit, I'd say, in this sense, you can't get out of the scratch fly, you can't run into a ring. Because, if we want to talk seriously about these things, the debate and the controversy has taken place, because in fact - and quite rightly in my opinion - all the political forces, perhaps with some exceptions, but, above all, the political forces that have a European orientation are aware that ratification of this agreement and the incorporation of this directive is in the right and positive direction. The big issue, which the country has issues, is what we do in the area of implementation with the accessibility of disabled people. That's the big deal. And if I said three words, I would say 'implementation, implementation, implementation'. That's what we're talking about. And to be serious now, there is no substantial disagreement on this, although we all deeply believe that there are different logical and ideological approaches to how technology is used and to the benefit of what. As Mr Javarras made a reference, I would say that the modern radical left is trying, in the way it operates in its policy, to combine equality and freedom with modern terms. For as far as the old opposition is concerned - and it is important for such a debate, even though we are not often given the opportunity to discuss this - among the supporters of equality, which was traditionally with the Left, and the supporters of freedom, which was traditionally with the liberal right, in today's reality, I think that this side, with its current, timely - I would say - is an expression and, as it appears in the crucial political issues of the country, unfortunately cannot represent any such request. I think that our area of modern radical left can, in fact, also defend these people's rights in terms of access and accessibility in real terms, in terms of the citizens who have these issues. I think that in this area we have given examples of writing. Finally, I should like not to refer to various suggestions made by Mrs Asmakopoulou in relation to how they progressed and carried out critical reforms in that country. Let me not remind you of the forest maps, not to remind the Land register, that our country is a pioneer, based on the OECD reports, in speed and quantity, of critical reforms in this country and indeed in the direction of the social majority. With all the policies we are discussing and the very good cooperation that exists with the federation, with the ESDP, this is very crucial in many areas - both with the Ministry of Labour and with the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction - they bring tangible results. And this is very, very important and must be recognised, in my opinion, in what I have much more deeper knowledge, as a step very important, as a positive example. Finally, I would like to say, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that since there was also a reference to the left-wing attitude and the name of Mr Dritsa - I do not know whether he will take the personal floor - in relation to how we were dealing with and confronting over time, and whether we are consistent with a certain rationale and a certain horizon on these issues and transparency and on the 'HUMANY' - and, quite rightly, you mentioned it and it is a reform step, which was really crucial for the public sector without a doubt, we have no problem recognising positive things. I do not know whether what you said about the attitude at that time was about aspects of e-government and I do not think that it promotes dialogue with a fragmentary reference. Apparently there would be a reasoning that Mr. Dritsas was placed at that time in the way he was placed and that he does not completely end up what he said in his position. I am ending the parentheses to say the crucial question, but I shall end with it. The crucial issue is that there are two fundamentally different policies in terms of public functions, and that is not only evident from the severe conflict that exists at the level of public recruitment. Because Greek citizens must know that when voting for Mitsotakis it means dismantling the public social state. The return to 1 in 5 is a dismantling of the public social state and the assignment of critical public functions to the private sector with known contractors. That's the model. And to know - and I conclude - the Greek citizens have fought to allow the break-up rate to be 1 to 1 to the public. We all know very well that the average age of the public is very high and there is a delay in the 'digital' knowledge of public officials. Overall, we need new blood in all critical areas of public administration. We fought for 1 to 1, that is, a departure - an intake. The public has enormous challenges ahead of him. Overall, the public social state has enormous challenges ahead of it and not only 1 to 1, but much more, especially in critical areas such as health, such as education, such as the issues of the state concerning social solidarity. This also shows the radically different approach and concept between us, our own policy, the policy of modern radical Left and the policy of neoliberalism with whatever cover it is covered. This is the crucial issue. We are therefore talking about a public which really can meet the needs of the citizens in the critical areas. We are talking about a public rationale, which is why we have also created the mobility law, which is why we have reformed fundamentally. We would have done the old tricks, if we wanted anything else, from the coordinators of the decentralised administrations to the Secretary-General. We didn't do that, and it's our honor that we didn't. We are talking about a worthwhile public, a public in which the citizen has access, and especially people with disabilities, to have access to dignity. We're too far away from this. That is what we need to recognise. Recognizing the great path that we have before us, and that we need to take very rapid steps to implement and not dismantle. That is, in my opinion, the dilemma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u95	The State Secretary, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u96	Madam President, I would like to speak for two minutes because the Minister raised a number of questions, and Mrs Papanatziou may have put some of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u97	I'll definitely put it. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be voting today on a positive directive on small businesses. The new one introduced by this provision is that in those cases of small businesses that are established only in Greece and provide services, to non-taxable, such as the cases of the creation and hosting of websites, the provision of images and texts, the provision of music, films, games, distance teaching, the provision of software and information, when they are established in any Member State of the European Union, they are taxed in our country and not at the place where the customer is established, provided that their total value does not exceed EUR 10,000. What happened so far? To date, each document went to the country where the transaction was concerned and there was the tax. So the administrative costs of small businesses, which until now had to receive a country-by-country tax register in order to ensure their activity, are eliminated. Therefore, these companies that, as I mentioned and mentioned by the rapporteurs and speakers, are being supported and facilitated, are being supported and facilitated, and cannot raise the burden of the tax administration of each Member State. The transactions of companies outside the European Union that are active in it are also facilitated, and this is how they are taxed, that is to say, some conditions are in place. Because we need to integrate our own functions and services provided to our country into the world economy now. You will allow me here to address a number of issues that have been discussed in committee and from what I have seen, they have been brought back by the rapporteur in New Democracy and by the plenary. I will mention again why the New Democracy cannot claim to be aimed at helping small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, for your days, we have 'the death of the merchant' and I will mention the facts again, because I am in plenary and have to say them. From 2008 to 2014 over 200,000 small and medium-sized enterprises disappeared, basically. This is a 25% reduction. From the 820.185 companies we had in 2008, the figure in 2014 decreased to 614 000. Similarly - as I mentioned in committee, I repeat it now - in 2017 and in 2018 we have a positive balance. Mr Theocharis also referred to this, and I am very pleased. He said that in the previous period until 2014 we had a recession and now we have growth. Welcome! You're the first of New Democracy to recognize that we have growth. I do not forget the figures for 2015 and 2016. I will not question your evidence at all. That's what you said. But what now? It's not 25% of business. The percentage of enterprises is much smaller. And here because we have our eyes open and our ears and we hear the small and medium-sized businessmen, we have taken some measures. What are the measures we took? You know very well that the taxation of businessmen, those who had a small mango, was 26% before 2015. It was 26% both for legal persons and for natural persons who might have had a small business. We 26% downloaded it to 22% for small businesses and those with low profits. This is about 85% of small and medium-sized enterprises! It's a very large percentage that's taxed that way. We also reduced the very high contributions the OAU had at the time. Indeed, in the crisis these people who might have had a profitable business in the past period, had very high gross revenues, had profits, could no longer face these very large contributions. And we're here to make contributions according to everyone's income. And that again has had a relief to 85% of businesses, because it is precisely because GDP has shrinked in the previous period in the crisis by a very large percentage, so that they can survive. That's exactly why we made these two moves. We did not go through the evidence and we said, "Yes, it is, again do the same, kill them" and let them go to another job." And we're on now. With the new measures we have taken again, we are moving on to the smallest businesses. We significantly reduced insurance contributions and made decisions to reduce tax in the next period by 1%. And the better the economy is getting, the better it is, the better it is to develop - which I really believe it exists - we will move on with that logic and more measures. They're not the only ones, we're not celebrating miracles. But we are constantly taking steps to keep this part of the business, because we are interested in it, because there are all those people who support the Greek society and the Greek economy today. You said - you changed it a little today in plenary - that in 2014 growth had begun and that the "bad" SYRIZA in 2015 with everything that was happening brought down the recession and you referred to the overdue public debts. Because you also know very well numbers, let's take them to compare them a little. In 2013, an increase of 7.5 billion over the period. In 2014, an increase of over 11.7 billion. In 2015, an increase of over 11 billion. In 2016, a 7.6 billion-dollar increase. In 2017, a 6 billion-dollar increase. In 2018, an increase of 4.4 billion over the period. And you know what? In 2018, we also have three months that we have a real reduction. In April 57 million less. In May 102 million, about, less. In June 123 million less. We certainly cannot say that we have done something very important because, once again, the time is too high. That is why we are on the way and we are considering measures in the next period. What I would like to say, and I shall end, has to do with the proposal that you have made for the 25 000, which you want to consider, to give the margin. You told us that the European Union has been asked to consider it and we do not listen to it and we are not helping small businesses. I also told you in committee, and now I repeat that the people who are in the special VAT scheme of 10,000, which is less than 25 000, are 6%. The figures we have and the committees that have examined the intentions of increasing the rate are negative. We do not reject it, however. We'll review it. It can really help. It may be in progress and with the growth of GDP that we have to bring it up. It's not a stop. We can see it. And, finally, in the next period, we will have enough measures to facilitate our fellow citizens whether they are natural persons, whether they are retired, hired or entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. Mr Theocharis has the floor. You've spoken more than anyone. You seem to be in the mood. I'll give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u99	It's not a matter of appetite. It's a bill with interesting facts. We agree on most of them. The debate is in a spirit of understanding. It is a matter of my fundamental obligation when we discuss a bill to make good criticism so that the ministers can improve it. Let me start by Mrs Papanatsiou, which I do not understand why she wanted to raise tons. I had no particular intention. Maybe he's trying to make an opposition to opposition. Ms. Papanatziou, insist and discuss and speak about 2008-2014 as if it was a single period in which the New Democracy ruled. I also told you in my speech that many of these years in which you have referred was not New Democracy in the government. In any case, and the evidence I submitted and spoke in my speech are elements of GEMH. You're talking about business that closes. You are not talking about the businesses that have been opened. Small and medium-sized enterprises between 2008 and 2014 were plus fifty two thousand. Enterprises that opened in 2015-2018 are plus seventeen thousand. So do not tell us that you have actually improved the situation with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises. I now find myself in a very difficult position to try to counter something that the entire Greek people see. If you come to the Greek Parliament to claim that SYRIZA has come and reduced taxes and contributions, I am not sure how we can counter this. May I remind you that you transferred VAT and practically uploaded all the food to 24%? In fact, you were wrong, when you had an ally in France, to put beef to 24% while then it was 23% and the last increase you made was then. The French Minister came here this morning and forced you to return to the middle rate and we entered a new adventure of wanting to increase VAT on education. Do not remember them again, this 2015 was unexplained. The New Democracy had reduced contributions by 5%, you brought them up. He had brought the focus to 13% and you changed it again. At this moment, if you do not understand that the Greek small and medium-sized suffocation and cannot meet its obligations, I do not know whether to repeat it will help at all. Looks like you don't want to hear. The fact that, now that we are approaching the election period, you want to make some election benefits, and so you only remind us of the last part that you have made some reductions, what to say, I do not think it gives the overall picture. As far as the time is concerned: you are not giving us the evidence, how much you have increased seizures, because this is the way in which the time is coming down, it is not because we have growth. In development you fail in every budget. All the sizes of surpluses and surpluses, i.e. examinations to the outside, so that we can fulfil our obligations, achieve them. And I'm the first to agree to that. In all aspects relating to growth, namely the reduction of unemployment, there you fail, there you bring less results than you tell us you will bring to the budget. I now say a few words about the information that the Minister has told us about the other directive in relation to the websites. Say the easy, the good and the bad. Let me split them into three pieces. The easiest thing, although sad, is the subject of the facts you have mentioned. Obviously, there are two studies. There is the study you mentioned that, in fact, shows us specifically about open data with an alpha methodology that we are in the eighth place. I have tabled to the committee and will return to plenary the data of the DESI, the Digital Economy and Society Index. Moreover, in my opinion, we are talking about digital economy and society in relation to websites and VAT, because we are talking about distance selling and digital selling, which is affected by the provisions of the two directives. Here clearly shows the negative movement from the tenth place to the sixteenth position in relation to the open data. It's model 5a5. Obviously, it is sad or, anyway, we live in this world where there are too many indicators and our country is constantly classified as different indicators. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's the one. The second is good, and it is good: I am pleased that you are interpreting - and it is important that your statement - that internal websites also fall within the competence of this law. I would like to believe that the fact that we pointed this out here led you to interpret it, because I am sure that if we left the administration without your interpretative statement from the Stepping of the House, it would be interpreted in its own interests, that is to say in close proximity. I'm also glad you came and told us about a strategic implementation plan. It's something that I pointed out was missing. It would be more pleasant if he entered, if you wish, even as an annex, to see it as a first strategic plan. It is good that you mention his six pillars, and of course, within it, that you have the register of pages to take place within the first month. Here we will also be with parliamentary control, and I promise that in a month's time I will ask you about the progress of this work. Of course, I would like to ask you whether you will implement it or whether the Ministry of Digital Policy will implement it. In this case, I am sure that the problems of malfunctioning that I have mentioned will appear and perhaps not reach you for one month just to bring the joint working parties together. But what matters more and is bad, if you want, is this: Since we do not have a register of all the public pages, we will never be sure that those who have been certified and entered this register are all the public websites and, of course, we will expect citizens' complaints to indicate to us a forgotten website in the alpha region, in the beta municipality and elsewhere. That is why I was saying that, since we do not have the right public data, so that we can have a full picture and an implementation progress, we can know how much. I would like to conclude by saying a few words, because Mr Mandas has said interesting things. I won't be late. First of all, I note the interesting attempt to change the nomenclature. It's in SYRIZA's turn, I guess. It's no longer a Radical Left coalition, but it's a Modern Radical Left. The Prime Minister is talking about a progressive alliance, i.e. there is a plan in total - you are shaking there in the SYRIZA Change Movement - renamed. The second important point, he referred to and it is very important for DENMARK. We have seen that in many places it is not working. It was really an incision. But...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u100	Please, please, Mr. Comrade. The appetite's opened to others now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u101	Well, what to do, Madam President. This is a bill we're talking about. It's not a bad thing in this House to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u102	Let's get out of the whirl.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u103	In "DENMARK" elsewhere is the decision to take the expenditure, elsewhere it is the award of the project and elsewhere it is the disbursements and the result is that I have asked four questions, during the period 2015 and 2016, about what payments have been made to Mr. Kim, then counsellor first of Mr. Varoufakis and then Mr. Tsakalotou and the government wrote in its old shoes and did not reply once. I remember Mr Kaklamani having asked relevant time-consuming questions and answered, but no evidence is given. I remember that other groups of Parliament have also become. And the fact is that in practice the Greek people cannot get the information they need and here is an alliance to stop this thing. The New Democracy Government will change this so that we know exactly where all the costs are going. Mr Mandas said that if you vote for Mr Mitsotakis, it would be for the private and not for the public. This is the difference SYRIZA understands. It's the 20th-century differentiation. The Greek people must know that, if we vote Mitsotakis, we are in favour of the quality services of the public and we do not care how they are implemented. We are concerned that the Greek citizen will get proper services, services that will be on time, services that will cost as little as possible and can do his job and live his life, as he wants to plan it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u104	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u105	You'll talk for five minutes, too. I say in all five minutes, but no one counts me in here. Anyway!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u106	Madam President, a parliamentary right, a secondary one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u107	You practice it, but you're all over time. Four minutes it was ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u108	When did I get over it, Madam President, see the notes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u109	Okay, don't waste time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u110	Don't let go of it. For Mr. Theochari first. He didn't explain why we scare us with the appearance of the New Democracy or SYRIZA. We're not scaring anyone, dear fellow. We are not afraid of anyone, because we have a clear reason, and we are not trying with verbalism on the one hand or on the other to face weaknesses. I would like to ask the government a question and, in particular, Mrs Papanatsiou, because I have had a gap from her position. He said the debts were reduced. What debts? Are private individuals’ debts reduced to the public by tax liabilities? Are private individuals' debts reduced by insurance obligations or increased? Because the picture we have recently seen is that the volume of public debt is increasing, and that is not because of what the government likes, and there has been a lot of discussion yesterday, trying to show them as strategic malpractices, appears to be in weakness, in a poorer economy for the Greek people and the economy. I would therefore like to hear an answer to that, because it is the mirror of the economy. If private individuals' debts have been increased to the public, then the economy is now being devastated. And I am not opening up, Madam President, the question of what the debts of private debt are, because that is where we are now opening a great debate, which is not in this bill. I would just like to conclude by insisting on the fact that, in a draft law which we are trying to transpose into the internal legal order, when we open wounds with a CSM, with powers which are not provided for in the basic body, it cannot deliver, however good the intentions of the government. Thank you, Madam President. I never abuse time, you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Vardalis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Madam President. I would not take the floor, but as the debate on the seconds and positions of the Parliamentary representatives has evolved, I think it is going too far! Of course, the first is normal. After all, others have pointed it out. There was one consensus, because in fact we are talking about two directives, with which you are all in agreement. At the same time, however, there has also been an attempt to show in this House that two different worlds really conflict with public function at least. Really, where did you see them in these different worlds, where they're even colluding? Are they conflicting with what, in the functioning of the public itself and the objective it has through this operation? Everyone knows how this urban state works and who serves in a thousand two ways. It essentially serves this development, which you are all pursuing, capitalist development, the development of the profits of business groups. This role is played by the state. Of course, because conditions change, there is a huge need to modernise this state, so that it can play its role in modern conditions yesterday and the day before yesterday. Here, on this second issue, in trying to modernise the urban state, so that it can best play this role in favour of monopolies, you have secondary and trivial differences between you two, but it is not a conflict between two different worlds. These are differences which serve the same purpose, that is to make the urban state more effective in today's conditions, to serve the very same objective you are all pursuing. Of course, I say this, mainly, because there was also an anxieties on the part of the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, and indeed on the grounds of the relationship between recruitment and leaving the public. Technically, what are you pursuing? And here, in other words, there is a substantial agreement, there is no disagreement, much more there are no two conflicting worlds. All these years of the capitalist crisis, the relationship was one to five. What's that about? In short, if there were eight hundred thousand civil servants today, they have dropped to fifty thousand. I do not know outside the figures, but I say it to understand the shape, what exactly we have done ten years with the relationship one to five. What's coming now and what's SYRIZA doing? It says: the civil servants have fallen so much, we are now going to keep it at this reduced level. That's what this is about. Because when we say the relationship between one to one, one is that one will leave retirement or another for another reason and another will come in place. So, in other words, there will be this curse, what you have brought all of you to that level over the years. In other words, more practically, for people to understand what we are seeing today in hospitals and in schools, this up - down - will continue over the next few years. That's what this is about. These are the two different worlds that are supposed to collide. So to the main, you all have an agreement and you are fighting on secondary issues. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Hadjisavvas has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u114	Madam President, we have seen about the last thirty minutes that there has been a conflict between parties' representatives, who are in fact in favour of the transposition of the directive and who are struggling for who better to implement it. And in the position of the representative of SYRIZA, who said that all parties have a European orientation, I would like to say that, when we say European orientation, we mean this Europe which has subjugated all the nations of Europe, has imposed on them these laws that have cut wages and pensions and rights, has imposed on them the memoranda and has imposed them on them to live in this insecurity of Europe? Is that a European orientation? Because we, as a Golden Dawn, have a European orientation. We are in favour of the nations - states of a European Union, where powerful nations, with their own currency, their own constitution and their own will can stand against the new challenges created by factors such as America, such as China, such as any new force coming out and not trying to subjugate the nations, to make them regionally small, which will give them the mark of how they will move legally, constitutionally or even parliamentaryally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Katsiki, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u116	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u117	Oh, no. Mr. Ballis, would you like to take a second time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u118	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u119	Oh, no. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u120	Madam President, can I have a minute to answer some questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u121	Just a minute, though, because five I gave you ten words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u122	First of all, elements of the Independent Public Revenue Authority: By August 2018, twenty thousand fifty-six businesses had opened up twenty-five hundred and sixteen thousand sixty-three, or double. At the same time, we have had a gradual decline in unemployment, an increase in consumption of 5.3% in retailers on an annual basis. If this evidence doesn't satisfy us, I can't say anything else. As far as the time is concerned, I have not said that there is no increase. I said that a substantial reduction was in three months of 2018 and I also mentioned the amounts of the reduction. For the increase we have from 2013 to 2018, I mentioned to you how much has been growing annually. Sure, it's a big amount, it's not a small amount. We're not celebrating.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u123	How old is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u124	I'll tell you, Mr. Kutsuko. It's 104 billion. We have no problem talking about it. They are official data published. I'm not saying anything that's not published. But because it was as an element of development or not and because it was mentioned by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, I say it for the same reason. However, I would like to mention a point you asked me about how much tax is. Tax is 48%. The remaining 52% are established from other sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u125	Thank you. Now the Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. I would first like to make a few points. I fully agree with Mr. Javarras, Mr. Carras has mentioned it. The issue of language is very important. In fact, because we are talking about a period of digitisation of the means of communication, production and all social networks, it is also a crucial question of how the Greek version of the Greek version is properly guaranteed, with the Greek elements. Unfortunately, we also see the phenomena of the greklish. So you are absolutely right and I think there is no one to disagree. But there is one issue, which is time-consuming, which concerns the translation function of the European Union, which is also raised in legal matters. In other words, when we have a directive or a regulation, it must be translated into official EU languages and the responsibility for translation has the official translation section of the European Commission. Many times it is not the best performance of the Greeks. But when we integrate, we have to keep the title, even if it is not the most successful translation. I would also like to explain that. The draft law has been put into practice and then passed by the CENE and we have taken all its suggestions into account. Indeed, Mr Javarra, I would like to inform you that at the National Legislative Codification Council meeting in November, the subject of translation was one of the issues that were raised to us by the Quaestors of the legal schools and we said to discuss it with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr Koutsouko, I fully agree with the fact that the "GENERAL" is one of the top reforms and, indeed, I would like to inform you that we are currently implementing a programme in the Ministry to upgrade the "GENERAL" platform because it has been greatly expanded. We support the "GENERAL" and invest in its further digital upgrade. Mr Mandash quite rightly mentioned the question of implementation. It's the crucial issue. That is why I mentioned the six pillars of the action plan. Mr Theochari, this is why parliamentary control is needed. Here we go. Our goal is in a month to have this register, which we are developing internally at the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. Also, with regard to the issues of Open Data, I would like to inform you and the honourable Members that the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction is the official representative of our country in the EU. The evidence I have submitted is the official European data, which says that we are in the eighth place. I understand what you said, that there are many methods. At least, however, with regard to Open Data, our country currently has the eighth place at European level has received good mention of our services. Let us say good things and not just highlight the problems of public services. In conclusion, I would simply like to say that I thank all the Members for their comments and I am really glad that the broadest consensus in a draft law that comes to put a vote is being formed. Because of course the issues of accessibility for people with disabilities are wider, but the draft law is an important vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset and on the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Integration into Greek legislation: (a) Directive (EU) 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies and (b) Article 1 of Council Directive (EU) 2017/2455 of 5 December 2017’. We move on to vote on the principle, on the articles and on the whole of the draft law and the vote will be taken separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixteen articles, the farewell article, as well as the whole. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you have to close the touch screen to move to the next. At the top right of the screen each time the number of articles left to vote is shown, so that you also have control. Make sure you have passed all the articles, the hotel and the whole. After you register your vote, you have the opportunity to check it and to revise it by the end of the vote. For any information, please contact the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u128	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u129	Let me say, at this point, that the results will not appear on the screen, I will read them. Because the electronic system still exists the Potami and it will appear empty and the votes will not be able to be counted, so I will read them until it is removed. [[CHANGING PAGE]] The parties' positions, as reflected in the electronic system vote, are as follows: By a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 1 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 2 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 3 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 4 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 5 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 6 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 7 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 8 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 9 shall act by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 10 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 11 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 12 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 13, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 14, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 15 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 16, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. The total majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd Gymnasium of Pyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u130	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Integration into Greek legislation: (a) Directive (EU) 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on accessibility of websites and applications for portable devices from public sector bodies and (b) Article 1 of Council Directive (EU) 2017/2455 of 5 December 2017’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u132	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-07-S1-commons.u133	With the consent of the House at 13.58 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 8, 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
