ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In his letter of 14 October 2019, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informed the House that the first question under number 79-10-2019 was addressed to you on the top of the debate on topical and urgent questions within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny on Monday, 14 October 2019, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Treasury, to whom the first question under number 79-10-2019 of the President-in-Office of the Council of the Radical Left, Mr Georgios Katrugalou, on the subject, is impossible: ‘Do not lose, because of inertia and bilingualism, the promotion of the national interests of using the Ambassadors' Agreement; and the third question with number 82/8-10-2019 with number 82/2019, the second question of the President-in-Office of the Council of the Radical Left, on account of his participation in the European Union's activities in the field of foreign affairs. Please do as you do, in order to inform both the President-in-Office and the honourable Members of the proceedings." The second number will be discussed with number 85-8-10-2019 in the first cycle of the Member of the Heraklion Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "To open the procedure for subsidising freight transport applications and to include in the transport equivalent and for Crete the transport of fuel and passenger movement". The timely question will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The transport equivalent, as you know, Minister, is an institution to compensate for the negative effects on islands and islands in relation to the increased costs they have on all sectors, but above all on the movement of people, goods and goods, in general. When the previous government instituted the transport equivalent, it completely excluded Crete and even with contradictory arguments between the Minister and the State Secretary. On 1 January 2019 the universal application - for all the islands - and the Cretan reactions to the exception were great - and the world of entrepreneurship and ordinary citizens. We have also taken action in Parliament through parliamentary control, but also in cooperation with the institutions. Thus, the Government was literally forced just before the elections to announce the implementation of the transport equivalent pilots for Crete from 1 July for six months and only for specific goods. However, this measure has also proved to be lame, because while the platform for the certification of operators has been opened, the platform has not yet been opened for the submission of freight and supporting documents in order to be disbursed. Of course, there is still an exception for many products and for the movements of the Cretans - either by boat or by air - once applied to other islands and both measures. Of course, there has been no debate on the inclusion of fuel costs. I ask what your intentions are, what are you going to do, so that they can also submit supporting documents so that they can be financed through the transport equivalent, but what will you then do about the universal integration of Crete into the transport equivalent for all and without exceptions?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Placiotakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kegeroglu for his question, because it enables our Government to develop the issue of islands and how we imagine islands as an area of application of national and European policies that will significantly support the great development stock of our islands, the production of national wealth. Therefore, we, ladies and gentlemen, understand islands as development policy and not as a subsidy policy. Our aim is therefore, at last, to acquire an officially recognised and well-established public island policy, a policy that will also be strengthened with financial instruments and mechanisms, with binding and guaranteed resources. So what have we done in the last three months and how do we act as the leadership of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy? First of all, we are planning a separate sectoral portfolio entitled 'Completed maritime policy' with clear territorial cohesion and co-financing of the European Union, with the financing of integrated spatial investment strategies. Also, in cooperation with the European Investment Bank and the Deposit and Loan Fund, we are moving towards the creation of a Fund for Major Islands Public Investment, with the aim of leveraging resources, in order to proceed with infrastructure, energy projects, water management projects, environment, using borrowing and promoting cooperative public-private schemes. Finally, we are moving towards the creation of a financial instrument for island competitiveness. We're going to the transport equivalent now. Allow me, Mr President, a little of the time, because it is important for my colleagues to have an integrated view on the equivalent of transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u5	You still have a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u6	Its establishment, as the honourable Member rightly said, was to balance transport costs, that is, what the resident pays on land by using land for the same distance, the same way that the resident or businessman of Greece pays. Now, be careful: Using the transport equivalent measure has made 27% of the island population, two hundred and six islanders, who received a per capita of EUR 82.42. I would like to submit to the Minutes, Mr President, both for passengers and for businesses. [[At this point, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Ioannis Pakisotakis, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] As far as businesses are concerned, seven out of ten companies - look out - which took part have not asked for funding, which has therefore made use of four thousand five hundred forty-four companies which benefited from EUR 4.9 million from the reduction in transport costs. Now, the total absorbency for passengers, businesses and fuels is - take care - of the 7% rate, just 17 million of the total EUR 230 million committed in the respective CSR of the Ministry's Public Investment Programme. And what should one assume of the low absorption of this measure? Firstly, that this measure has been handed over, without taking into account the real needs of our islanders or that the islanders and entrepreneurs do not find the solution that has been given to them useful and effective. It is therefore obvious - and it is also provided by Law 4551/2018 - that an assessment of this measure is required. Since March 2019, the previous government has awarded the University of the Aegean - after all, the University of Aegean - the initial planning of this measure - the assessment of the first phase of application of the transport equivalent and the results expected at the end of October. On the basis of all this, however, in any case, and after the information I have presented today, we shall proceed with rationalisation of the transport equivalent, while adopting incentives or aid to improve island competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, our objective is transport equivalent, not only to maintain but also to extend it, depending on the categories required. At the same time - and here I am entering the main part of my answer to my dear colleague from Crete - we are moving one step further. We are organising a special study at the University of Piraeus and the Institute for Regional Development of the University, in order to provide a documented scientific report in order to prepare the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy the appropriate grid of interventions, in view of the new strategic reference framework, of the new NSR 2021-2027. My dear colleague, I am the first to be interested in strengthening the competitiveness of Crete and the well-being of its inhabitants in the context of healthy entrepreneurship. In Crete, therefore, the application of the equivalent of transport will result in a study of the sectors and products for which a burden on maritime transport costs will be incurred. I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u7	You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u8	Of course, it is expected that the next time will also begin a substantial dialogue with businessmen, but also with the Chambers, obviously also in Crete. In conclusion, let me say that the aim of the political leadership of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is at last to acquire an official, recognised and well-established public island policy. And it is clearly not a political innovation to adopt a public island policy. Political innovation will be the implementation of it by our Government in the next year, in 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u10	Eight minutes, Minister, you have analysed the European strategy drawn up for the next few decades, as it has been heard, but answering to specific questions I have not asked you. And I must tell you that I sincerely hoped that, when you were placed with the Minister responsible for shipping, I would be happy, beyond personal sympathy, because we could give faster solutions to the issues that Crete had been wronged in the previous period. And I didn't hear a word about it. You disappoint me today. Listen. There is a pilot project launched by the previous government, which is being run down. He only started it for some goods. The other islands are being fully implemented. Why don't you make the decision, what the previous government has not done, apply to Crete as well, to the whole extent, the transport equivalent, as far as all products are concerned? Why don't you make the political decision to apply the transport equivalent to Crete for passenger movements? Why don't you take the decision to implement the pilot project to move and implement the transport equivalent for fuel, where the cost difference is evident? Look, it's not an allowance policy. Otherwise it would be called the ‘transport allowance’. It is the implementation of the Constitution's requirement to balance the negative consequences due to islandity, which is at the same time an advantage and a disadvantage. We can talk about an advantage. Here, then, are the questions in particular. Will you continue to fly the ball to the platform, like the previous government, not to apply the transport equivalent to Crete to invoke some studies that will be carried out and evaluate? Of course, when you assess it together, you'll change it together. Now the question is specific, and I would like, Minister, if there is such a possibility, to tell me about those. Today the deadline for certification of the bodies expires. Because of the great delay in opening up the implementation and being able to submit supporting documents, the world was not trusted and not all those interested came forward. With what confidence when he can't submit? Will you extend from the date of the present date until the end of the year to apply the equivalent to the certification of operators and finally open the platform to enable the freight forwarders, as they say, to submit the details of the code in order to collect what is stated as a fee for the equivalent? And I would like to know your honest opinion as to whether the implementation of the other actions implemented on the islands will proceed in Crete as well. And by boat, an islander can be moved and piloted for airlines, and of course, as I said, it is a fuel issue. Now, the fact that only two hundred and a thousand islanders for passenger transport have asked for the aid or why four and a half thousand companies have been certified, or why the total amount envisaged is not being absorbed is an issue that the evaluation will see. If you said: 'You know, there's no money in the budget and that's why they don't take action', I'd understand it. Financial reasons. Here we have the reverse. While there is money available, the transport equivalent does not apply to Crete and claim that many in the other islands did not submit to it. Only two hundred and a thousand, he says. All right, and in Crete they'll submit, say, twenty thousand. What does that mean? That these twenty thousand people who will be strengthened for their transport - weak economic people - should not have this possibility? I would therefore like you to fall into what is relevant to the injustice of Crete. The overall evaluation of the programme will of course be carried out by the Ministry, because I agree that it has the wrong basis as set up and must be assessed and amended. On this point we agree, but we will not expect that it will be amended to apply to Crete at the same time as it applies to the islands. No, that's not right. And I want your answers, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u12	I guess, Mr. Kegeroglu, you didn't notice me. I talked to you with certain facts. The measure of application of the transport equivalent is clearly a measure of subsidised logic and philosophy. I would like to remind you of the following: Do you remember when this measure was introduced? When the previous government abolished the reduced VAT rates in the East Aegean. That's when it happened. And then the government of SYRIZA wanted to throw ash in the eyes of islanders for the abolition of reduced VAT rates. The handbook for the planning and implementation of this measure is evidenced, Mr Kegeroglu. When only 7% of this measure is absorbed, obviously something is wrong. Obviously, the design was rough, apparently and significant problems have arisen. I would like to inform you at this point that, in the fuel side of compliance with the de minimis regulation, significant problems have arisen, and so that the implementation of this fuel measure at the end of the day will be abolished. We do not want to reach this point, which is why I told you that we are going to prepare a specific study for Crete as well. It is not possible for me and the Prime Minister to want to implement a specific measure for Crete, to strengthen the competitiveness of businesses and the well-being of residents who offer so much in our national economy, but we want to do so in a structured, concrete way, through a documented dialogue and with chambers and agencies, in order to reach concrete decisions. Therefore, we do not agree with rough solutions, Mr Kegeroglu, and I believe that this particular measure should also support society, but also the businesses of Crete and, of course, avoid distortions and distortions. So, within three months - I say this because you told me that we were referring to the future - we will have concrete, documented solutions - decisions through a scientifically documented study and then proceed to specific announcements. You know, it's too rough to have specific communications. The difficult one, Mr Kegeroglu, is to have evidence of any decision we take in mind. And I would like to end by saying that the transport equivalent is a part of strengthening island entrepreneurship. We will finally submit a comprehensive report - for the first time in historical times - maritime support policy for both our islands and the inhabitants and island competitiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u13	Charges will be submitted to start the application?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. Before we move to the next timely question, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce that, in implementation of the Parliamentary Assembly Decision of 8 October 2019, a Special Parliamentary Committee was set up to carry out a preliminary examination in accordance with Article 86(3) of the Constitution, Articles 153e. of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on the ‘Prime Responsibility of Ministers’, as applicable, concerning the investigation of the following offences, which may have been committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Dimitrios Papagopoulos, in the performance of his duties: 1) a moral automation in the misuse of power by physical automation and direct synergy of judicial officers (Article 46(1), in conjunction with Article 239 of the Criminal Code), 2) an invitation and an offer for the execution of a crime (Article 186(1) and (2) of the Criminal Code), 3) a moral automation in breach of duty and a breach of duty (Article 46(1), in conjunction with Article 259 of the Criminal Code, and Article 259 of the Criminal Code of its own) and 4) a moral automation in a false deposit (Article 224(1) of the Criminal Code). The decision in question has been posted to the Parliamentary Transparency, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and will be notified to the Members mentioned and to the other Members mentioned. Congressmen. [[The abovementioned Decision is hereby entered in the Minutes and read as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] To enter pages 19-20-21)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u15	I also have the honour to announce to the House the following: The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Recommendation of a National Public Health Organisation (EKO), regulations on tobacco products and other issues of the Ministry of Health". Finally, the Minister of Justice forwarded to the Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case from 14-10-2019, a criminal case for the former Foreign Minister Nikolao Kotzias. We move on to the debate of the third under number 717-10-2019 in the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The situation in special education and education". Mr. Delia, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, for children with disabilities, for children with special educational needs, for children with learning difficulties every year, you know, there is a repetitive reality. They open schools in September, but for these children these lessons don't start. I'm talking about the lessons these kids need. This is the unacceptable regularity of the special treatment, and this is unfortunately repeated this year. We are now in the second month of operation of schools, but special treatment still works as it should. In particular, no special school opened up in full operation, as there were great shortages of staff of all the necessary skills. However, and now that we are talking about major staff shortages across the entire spectrum of specific structures - in the special schools, in the accession departments, in parallel support - it is important to say that several routes for transport, for accessing these children to specific structures, have not even begun. Of course, this either results in students stacking in special structures - especially schools, etc. - without, of course, getting the necessary support they need either, the worst, to stay at home. Every year, that is, the same and worse, Minister. So much education support for these children is being given to them either lately or incompletely, and there are many cases of such children who spend a whole school year without getting the slightest scientific and pedagogical aid from the state. With these, of course, the parents of these children, who go up every day their own gulgotha anyway, are trying to fill these gaps - those who, of course, can afford it - taking private support for their child at their own expense, while this afternoon they continue this expensive marathon to fill their gaps in other public schools. We do not want you to tell us again - we pre-empt you - for these four and a half thousand assignments to special treatment. Do them at last and let's not talk about it anymore. We're sick of hearing it for two, three years from SYRIZA. Finally let it be done and it be a drop - that is, a drop - in the desert of the huge shortages of special treatment. What we want to ask you is not just questions, Minister, are essential requests at the same time for the children of special education and their families. First of all, when will it be - we say now - the permanentisation of all the necessary specialities, of course at the same time establishing new special treatment structures? And there are thousands of these teachers in special lawsuits. I should now like to argue about the need for permanent staff in special education, I think you don't need it. Everyone understands the great importance for the development of these children, the permanent relationship of the teacher with them. And of course, we ask when there will finally be adequate public structures of early diagnosis and early intervention - one, of course, depends on the other - for those children who need it, of course, a diagnosis and a public structure that will also see and record and incorporate children into those structures that they really need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Mrs Zacharakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u18	Mr Delis, thank you for the opportunity to respond to what may seem repetitive, but thousands of people are currently waiting for the answer to that. Yes, I shall refer to all four and a half thousand appointments. You may not like it as a matter, but I have to and I want to do it. Because I felt you tired of the constant report, I think it's not at all tiring. I will tell you something which is also very important. For this government, and above all sincerely, the issue of special education with an integrated strategy for people with disabilities is of primary importance and not only, you know, from the establishment of the specific working group to work on the issues of disabled people - indeed, it is at the Prime Minister's level - that is to say, it is at the level of taking a very central decision - but also individual strategies per Ministry which are unfolding and today I am here to answer the issues of the Ministry of Education. We therefore remain consistent in our political priority programme on the issues of dealing with children's issues - since we speak of education - with disabilities and with disabilities. As a matter of priority, therefore, we have been recruiting alternates. These people who have been supporting the public system for so many years, those people who have been informed, and this year, of where, in accordance with the already announced timetable, we said on 5 September, the first date with prioritisation to our substitutes in the special treatment, with a second phase of alternates in the month of September, with just a precedent for the placement of a certain number of people who had not been in service - refused a substitute service. We did it right away. You're right. They need to know very early and we will proceed to a third phase of intake of substitutes for gaps, which we have now asked for from our competent directorates - and regional directorates - throughout Greece, so that we can meet these needs in good time. If you ask me whether it is good to hire alternates or learn about it on 5 September, I tell you that I wish we could reach a speed of this year for these people who take the family and go to a place nearby or far away to serve public education. I shall, however, return to that, and I shall now come to the issue of the competition for the four and a half thousand people, who are very important, Mr Delis, to be hired, appointed. It is an initiative that was not of the New Democracy. We objected to the notice, but we promised that this competition would end, which we found to run with too many loose ends. So at the moment, we are already in consultation with the AACC - because that is where we are assessing the tables - we are calling for accelerating the process. It has already come to an end to the first notice, it is moving on the result of the second notice and we hope and we hope that by the end of the year this issue of appointments will end. Our substitutes who serve in schools and special education structures will complete their entire year's service and the people who will be appointed will be placed if they are not already the same. These things are very important, Mr. Delis. I must also inform Parliament that the necessary distribution between the steps which have not been taken by the previous government will be announced by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Finance and Education and immediately after that distribution will be confirmed by the Ministry of Interior. All this is imminent. It's important to someone who's following the process. I would therefore repeat that it is important that these appointments be made. They're very important to this permanent relationship that you and you said the kid should have to have with his teacher. But I would also like to give you another clue, which I think is important. It is comparable to how many people have been recruited as a special trainee and a special assistant. So I'm giving you an element for the ERCs. So, last year, three hundred and sixty - one were hired. This year's appropriations are for five hundred and fifteen people. A total of two thousand four hundred and fifty eight people were recruited to these people last year and will go to the two thousand eighty-five people this year. In the first phase of deputys, Mr Delis, over 12 thousand were recruited in special education. Yeah, well, there's a change. There is no situation that you want to present, which takes place from year to year. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] There are, of course, misunderstandings and advice that we will take seriously when it comes to the completion of procedures and the legal framework for special education, but I am sorry, Mr Delis, I will not accept that this situation is taking place in a situation that we are not proud of. We all do our utmost so that there is the self-evident presence of the state next to the child, next to the teacher, next to the family, who really wants the special care to be there, the state to be there. I wish we could find a way to strengthen this. I don't know if time... Already I think I'm over...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u19	Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u20	I would also like to reply on transport and infrastructure issues. I imagine you'll put it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u21	You can do it in your dentistry. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. You neither avoided temptation, Minister - of course representing your Government - to compare yourself to previous governments. They did the same. They were compared to the previous ones. You have to understand, however, that you are compared and judged on the basis of the needs of reality and that is where your own government scores are, too, too, too. In order not to say that we are opposed to appointments, the JRC is talking about the permanentisation of all alternates. Will it be against the appointments of four and a half thousand? If that's possible! Of course these appointments will be made. They should already have been. But they're stalling! That's why we told you not to tell us again, we're tired of hearing it. Make them. They should already have been. On the issues I raised with my question, I think that you have diligently avoided answering or rather responding to the question of the permanentisation of alternates. If the concept of a substitute is a barbaric employment relationship - barbaric is this employment relationship - for the children of special treatment has an even more barbaric effect. A child with autism, Mrs. Zacharakis, can't change a teacher every few months. It's a criminal thing that happens. I mean, at last! We can't make so many thousands of recruits in special lawsuits, so many thousands of surrogates more than the previous ones. If for us the concept of permanentity is, of course, an essential element of a human society, of a fair society, of the children of special education, I think it is not without them. I'm on my way. We would really like to ask you a few questions about the residual function and the shortcomings of the special schools. We said in our question that there is no special school, which is currently fully operational with all its staff and the educational and special scientific staff and special assistant. There's not a single school. If you have an opposite view, we should listen to it and tell us what this school is. There are huge deficiencies. This incomplete staffing of special schools, of course, also leads to their lack of function. Consider what it means to a special school, to be a psychologist or to have a scholar, a therapist, a child psychiatrist, what it means to be a specialist for a child who has serious motor problems or a severe mentally disabled. Who's gonna serve this kid? These children most often because of the lack of these specialties, which I am talking about - the special scientific and special assistant - is more than a thousand five hundred at the moment we speak all over the country, keeps these children at home, with what that means to their parents and their families. I'm on my way. What does that mean by the lack of therapists, therapists? That this afternoon - and I ask for your tolerance, Mr President, it is a very serious matter - these parents - each afternoon, Mrs Zacharaki - are entering a marathon and running from one private centre to another, to pay for therapists, therapists and therapists. They are literally separating themselves into stress, in order to help their children, because the governments - and your own, of course, which continues this policy - have taken care of them, because they are considered to be cost, expenditure for the state, for this state that pays so much money, pays richly - the 'bravo's get from Trump - when it comes to NATO spending. That's where you pass the grill, it's over four billion. But when it's for the kids, that's where the cigarettes get us. As far as transport is concerned, I do not know how many people of course know that the system of transporting these children to schools has, in fact, been privatised. They're taking over an agency, and there's a competition going on. We are talking about agencies with large tourist buses that often cannot enter narrow major cities such as Athens, Piraeus, Thessaloniki, with the consequence that the parents or grandparents of these children can walk and one and two kilometers to take them from where the bus passes. Let us not even talk about the barren taxi competitions! Last year we had a child in St. Athanasios, Thessaloniki, who, due to a lack of means of transport, never went to the special school, which was really a jewel. It was a new special school, but that's not what he said. I'm going further. On transport - and I would like to hear your opinion too - it is not a simple means of transport for these children. You know, transporting these children is also a kind of educational process. The kid with autism, the step on the ladder bus at the school, will deal with it the same. But it's very important that people who will be there on the bus know. And we have nothing with those who are now, because people very simply don't know. That is why we are talking about a public transport system for these children, where they will also all know, not just teachers, how to treat these children and the needs that these children have. Finally, let us not talk about misery - because that is the word that fits - the housing of special schools. What housing? If there is school houses, in special education is the definition of: old buildings, precaution rooms, rooms as if or not, which are abundant in primary schools. That's the situation. Finally, Minister, we would like you to tell us how many undiagnosed children are if you have an image as a ministry. How much are the diagnosed children, the recorded ones, which are not going to school right now, why are there and are many, and what impact does it have - and I raise a more general issue now - this uninterrupted, Mrs Zacharakis, in special treatment? You know, if there's a school leak "A" in classical education, in special education there's a very large school leak between primary and secondary special education. Why is that? Where are these kids going? What's going on? Really, after the secondary special education, the special training centres, etc., what about these children? Do they have any access to the labour market, to production as you say? To talk now about the kindergartens that these children need! These are inappropriate dreams even to talk about them or about the post-secondary, post-training special structures!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u23	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u24	In any case, Mr President, if there are many criteria in a policy, we believe that the criterion of this issue is a criterion and a measure of the humanity of a policy - either a government - and a measure of humanity in a society, depending on how it has been organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. Mrs Zacharakis, here you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Delis, because I understand that anguish is obvious and honest, you have confused many responsibilities of many ministries, many structures. I understand that you wanted to make a more general assessment of the subject of special treatment. But since I have to put them to you, if you want, in a series, I would remind you that the issue first of all of the transport of children is not a matter for the Ministry of Education. It's a matter of self-government. You know that well. I would just like to remind you of it and remind the House that it is aware of it. On the issues which we obviously have the day-to-day cooperation so that we can be absolutely sure that travel, transport, this is a self-evident precondition and is done between the services of the Ministry of Education and the self-government structures. I repeat, however, that this is a matter of self-government. The Department of Special Education's Department's Special Education staffs with drivers and escorts now, school buses, which are the property of special education and training units on the basis of their license. There, in fact - and we have no question at all - we have no complaints about the operation, and you can already check it - the twenty-four buses operating across the territory have already been staffed with drivers and escorts. I am telling you this as a necessary clarification on the subject of transport. Of course, the remarks you made about how each bus should be, the vehicle. It must be taken into account and it is something that must also be transferred to the municipalities. In other words, these special provisions and regulations must be transposed, which must be carried out on means of transport for the children of special treatment. With regard to the building issue, I will tell you that, in cooperation with the municipalities - which have the responsibility of the schools building infrastructure - we are trying to locate all over Greece - we have done so with continuous documents from the relevant directorates-general to the schools - precisely the issues where they are, in cooperation with the mayors, who already come people with great interest and say they have a problem with the special schools. Today I was talking to the Mayor of Elefsina. The man came in a very honest mood, heatedly, to discuss special school. We said that next year we will also try to help us in the building sector - you know that there are increased needs, because the workshops are there - so that the building infrastructure part can be speeded up - this is the responsible agency - and any repairs, but also the finding of new areas to enable new structures to be created. There are requests to the Ministry. You have also asked, through your question, for approval of new sections. We evaluate everything in cooperation, of course, with the existing infrastructure. We would not like to approve anything, which does not have the necessary condition for decent people, indeed conditions, to operate a special school and, of course, we will also see staffing with human resources immediately afterwards. We agree, Mr. Delia. We are exactly in the same priority - I would say - of the special treatment piece. I think that the image you have presented is unfair to the people who give it to them every day in special treatment. Because you mentioned the issue of special educational, scientific and auxiliary staff, I gave you with details the increase in appropriations for this year. I will give you another element, which is also worth listening to and thinking about. I signed over six and a half thousand approvals this year on requests for parallel support. So this support is given to a child in general education and has this assistance alongside the teacher, increasing time with time and the Ministry is there. I have signed positively on the demands that have emerged throughout the country. With these considerations, I repeat - and I close - that our priority is the framework of special education, the framework of a training that includes them all and gives choices to all children, a equality of opportunity, so that they look at their future with hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. We heard you very interestingly, because I love these kids and whoever's hanging out with them only has friends, you know that. We move on to the debate of the first under number 80/8-10-2019 in the second cycle of MP I East Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The money from the Ministry of Culture's Solidarity Fund at the offices of the former Ministers and the Secretary General of the Ministry". Mr. Darkdog, here, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the past few days - after meeting with the Panhellenic Federation of Workers of the Ministry of Culture - you have announced that you will bring legislation to the House of Greeks, which will clear up the Ministry's Solidarity Fund. The Fund carried out a management audit for the years 2000 to 2016 by auditors of the General Accounting Office of the State following a mandate from the previous government. According to the findings of the auditors of the General Accounting Office of the State, non-legal and non-legal expenditure amounting to EUR 45,000 was found. In this fund, the only influx of money was through the grant from the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund, so the Solidarity Fund only managed state money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] According to the press release of the "Preservers' Newspaper" among the evidence found on substantiated papers in the basement of the building where the fund is housed, amounts were discovered that were directed towards the office of the Ministers and the then General Secretary - which were you - and the current minister with permanent justification for overemployment. In detail, the following were identified: On 25-9-2000, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs receives from the Federation of Workers 10,000, 000 drachmas for the financial management of the Secretary-General's staff and the Minister's office. On 19-2-2003 they are given overtime in the Minister's office of EUR 17,890. With a similar proof on 9-4-2003, the same Fund receives EUR 23,467 again to cover overtime at the offices of the Secretary-General and Minister. EUR 19,994 for the same reasons at the same offices. We are very concerned that the decision of the Minister to put the Fund in liquidation will result in the judicial investigation carried out by the appropriate prosecutors for its operation. In view of the above, then, you ask: How is the outflows outside the Fund justified to the offices of the then Ministers and its office as Secretary-General of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Lina Mendoni. Mrs. Mendoni, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr President, because it gives me the opportunity to address an issue which is constantly recycled from the point of view of Officerial Response and from the press, which politically belongs to it. Around the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture Employees The Civic Opposition seeks to set up another political scandal. It is no coincidence that you yourself in your capacity as a sectoral, of the responsible culture of SYRIZA, have stated that the exercise of criminal prosecutions against seventeen former members of the Fund's board of directors is a political and moral right to confess indirectly but clearly the close and direct interest that this case presents for you. All the documents found on the Fund by my predecessors, Ministers of Culture of your government, have been sent and are at the disposal of the Prosecutor of the Corruption of Ms Toulopakis, who conducted on 1 October, 15 days ago, in other words, the criminal persecution in question. On the basis of the overall data and cooperatives, everyone can certainly draw conclusions on prosecution. So since the full file of the evidence and evidence concerning the Solidarity Fund has been sent from the political leadership of the SYRIZA Government to justice and criminal prosecutions have been carried out for criminal offences, I do not understand why you are concerned that the work of justice officials will be hampered by the liquidation of the Fund. Things have started. What scares you, why won't the liquidation be effected, how will they be affected? Let's go to your question now. You are referring to a management check on the Solidarity Fund carried out by the General Accounting Office of the State and you say that this check concerned the years 2000-2016. I would therefore inform you that the information you have provided is incorrect. The conclusion that you are referring to the report on the final results of the ex ante management check on the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture and Sport from the General Accounting Office of the State from 1 January 2005 – not 2000 – until 31 December 2016. Mr Skouroliakos, I understand your concern to include in the question earlier years, especially in the years 2000-2004, the period I first served as Secretary-General at the Ministry, because at this time your source is mentioned, the editors' newspaper. But unfortunately, for you, control is specific and specific and is identified, it refers to the period 2005-2016. It's sloppy and without a trace of elementary political courage your targeting to put me in the frame as well. Because we all know each other, Mr Skouricos, and everyone has his personal history, I tell you personally that I am not touched by anything. My economic and assets situation, as can be expected in the 20 years' 'lands', remains unchanged to make it clear. So stop immoral practices, cheap political practices, to create impressions. If you have information for anyone, including me, to present them to every legal authority, without excluding justice. Stop throwing mud on the fan! In the conclusion to which you refer, the General Accounting Office of the State refers for the year 2005, that overemployment in the office of the then Minister and the Secretary-General was EUR 8 310. Of these, after the legal reservations, they were paid in 2005 - I was not the Secretary-General - EUR 4.350, for what? The grant shall be made to the Solidarity Fund for compensation for clerks and shall cover their staff costs incurred in 2015. One more thing. The Solidarity Fund has been managed in 2010 - and then I was Secretary General again - from the ILO and then the Fund submitted all its financial information, budgetary and accounting, to the General Accounting Office of the State and to the Court of Auditors. It is clear that the Ministry of Finance had full knowledge and could exercise any control. On the basis of the same finding of the General Accounting Office of the State, the money received by certain employees through the bank was paid for this amount by way of an income tax paid to the relevant DU, while the payment took place on the basis of a Ministerial Granting Decision of the Fund and the Governing Council Decision. In a fund designed to serve the work of the Ministry and to facilitate the work of the workers I reasonably wonder why you think such payment is out of purpose. The main aims and mission of the Solidarity Fund, since its establishment until now, are to grant financial assistance to the officials of the Ministry for the development and development of the educational and cultural level, to develop political activities, to help for health and social solidarity and to contribute to the work carried out by the Ministry. Any contribution from the Fund to the work carried out by the Ministry could also cover the amounts paid for overemployment to employees of the Ministry who worked tens of hours in excess of their normal working hours. As for the evidence you refer to in your question from the newspaper's publication, the newspaper mentions evidence between substantiated papers in the basement of the building housed in the Fund, which is based on which amounts were discovered, which were directed towards the office of the then Minister and the Secretary-General, that is to say, in my own office, on a permanent justification for employment. Because personally, Mr Skourikos, I am not used to going down to the basement to identify documents that are not in the service protocol, please, if you have this proof, you or the newspaper, send them to me together with the names of the workers concerned and the corresponding sums that they have received, so that I can gladly reply to you, because a search on the Solidarity Fund has not been found for the dates mentioned in the question and your source. However, the reasonable question arises that if such documents were found in the basement of the building, why are they not registered in the register of the Fund, but in the hands of unauthorised persons? Mr. Darkness, you sought through an inaccurate and malicious question text to target me politically. Aw, lighten up. I can assure you that the clearance of the Fund will also be exemplary and the truth will be transparent and ultimately everyone involved in any illegal activity, do not worry, will be faced with their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Darkdog, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, it has given you the impression that we have spoken of political and moral justice. For us it is very important that political justice, as well as moral justice, Minister, first of all moral justice for us. You said we were recycled. Since when has parliamentary control been recycled? I still don't understand that position. The friend who comes to us Press may not say anything and may not say anything about you, this two-page tribute to the "Privats Newspaper", in which you never responded. Now you asked us to answer you. You didn't answer this post. Maybe the press says what they want. The finding, however, which is not a friend of the press, notes that in order to increase the earnings of posted officials employed in the offices of political leadership, in addition to the remuneration received by the Ministry, they were granted unforeseen allowances from the Ministry of Culture Solidarity Fund. Thus, despite the fact that the beneficiaries of the cultural training allowance were exclusively permanent and contracted permanent officials of the Ministry of Culture and of the legal persons of public and private law who, at the same time, are supervised, according to the practices of the Board of the Panhellenic Associations of the Ministry of Culture, its payment framework is determined by the Ministry of Culture, the federation, with trade union status. This says the conclusion and it is not the "Privat Newspaper", nor any other friends who are related to the SYRIZA newspaper. Madam Minister, this is the 'Recipients Newspaper' which talks about 171,000 euros of public money for an olive-coloured wall. You didn't answer that either. I'll submit it to the Minutes. There are invoices here and with dates and names. Unfortunately, you didn't answer my question. You tried attacking to create impressions. We're waiting for answers. Is a trade union body, which has no statutes, never made elections, such as the Relief Fund you want to close, who took money from the Archaeological Resources Fund, driving this money, directing this money to overtime employees, not employees of the Ministry, but posters at the offices of the Minister, the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General? You didn't answer, Mrs. Mendoni.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u33	Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u34	I guess you don't want to hear it, Mr. Darkness. First of all, I said that everything you say about the period 2000-2003 is not included in the conclusion. The conclusion - and if you wish - relates to the period 2005-2016. I'm saying that to make it clear. In the period 2005-2016, I was Secretary General from November 23, 2009 to January 28, 2015. So I do not think that the conclusion says anything - because for this period it is mentioned - for the Secretary-General's office or for the office of the Minister or of the Ministers. One of the prisoners. Secondly, you are talking about political and moral justice. Yes, sir. This event is unknown to the Ministry of Culture. The only protocol to which it appears is the protocol of the former State Secretary. The conclusion was deposited in June 2018. If the finding has not been sent by the State Secretary to the Court of Auditors and the financial prosecutor immediately in June 2018, then the political and moral justice goes for a walk, because that is what the political leadership had to do in this case, that is to say directly refer the conclusion to the financial prosecutor and the Court of Auditors. Now let's go see something else, because you almost gave me up because I didn't answer the newspaper's post. I am not used to respond to reports that are motivated and simply create impressions. I have no reason to answer these reports. I'll answer anything that's serious and documented. The Solidarity Fund was established by law in 1995 and was reconstituted by law in 2001, so it had passed through all the procedures provided for by the Hellenic Republic. In this law, therefore, his purpose, among other purposes, was, in general, to support the work of the Ministry. From there on, all the things you mentioned in your dentistry with dates and proofs, I repeat, for once, that they do not concern the period which affects the conclusion. If there are no further impressions, because you systematically repeat this sum of EUR 45,000, Mr Skourico, this sum of EUR 45,000 - and this is referred to in the conclusion...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u35	For the 171,000 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u36	The 45,000 people who are intelligently asking the question became 171,000. Bring me, Mr. Darkness, the names...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u37	One more, the other one. Answer both of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u38	Bring me the names, who were these employees between 2005 and 2016 and we'll answer you one by one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u39	Here it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u40	You are not talking about your question during this period, Mr Skourico, and this period is not my personal concern, because that is what you are trying to say. This period is not my concern personally. I say to you - to close it - that the EUR 45 000, to which you refer, is the allowance for cultural training for officials, which was provided through the special account, and which was established by Article 77 of Law 3746/2009 and subsequently incorporated into the basic salary of all officials of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u41	The permanents, not the transmigrants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u42	All officials of the Ministry of Culture. Bring me the situation to see they were post-mortem employees. So the Treasury had full knowledge, Mr. Skourico, of all that you're trying to create false impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much. We will now discuss the second question with number 73/7-10-2019, on the second question from the Member of Parliament's Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, on the subject of "The Municipal Therapies of Ikaria". Here, Mrs. Konnakka, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 17 September the Apollo and Spilia hydrotherapies of the Municipality of Ikaria, located in the area of Thorma, were sealed by the Seal Commission of the Regional Tourism Agency of the North Aegean on the grounds of the lack of a special operating mark. This, of course, has the effect of upsetting and equitable indignation both with serious health problems of many users of these, world-renowned and recognised thermal value of thermal sources, as well as those directly or indirectly active in the area in the middle of the bathing season. This, of course, also leads to a loss of the municipality's revenue from washing in these bath shops. As you may be aware, the sources of Ikaria have been declared thermal since 1951. Over the last 13 years the Ministry of Tourism has started the process of identifying natural resources, resulting in a number of municipal hydrotherapies being decommissioned due to the difficulties of many of them to meet the requirements of the new legal framework. In this respect, Minister, the Municipality of Ikaria, as early as February 2015, submitted for all the thermal sources of the island the necessary files dictated by the relevant Ministerial Decision to be examined by the Committee responsible for the protection of thermal natural resources. However, despite the systematic inconvenience on the municipality's side of papers, even with a protest representation held in the Ministry in August 2017 by the municipality, together with a local association of the Committee, this committee is fully unnecessarily delaying the examination of the files and the adoption of the decision. We are referring to the fact - to understand the stumbling blocks put forward by the committee systematically - that it has reached the point of characterising the territory of Ikaria as a whole, as can be seen today. Under the responsibility of the Ministry of Tourism, which does not prescribe any deadlines for examining the submitted dossiers, nor does it specify with which priority they are being examined, the Committee arrived to begin the examination of the dossiers two years after their submission, only in 2017, when it considered that the relevant chemical and radiological analyses had expired. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Municipality of Ikaria, who certainly did not have any responsibility for delaying the examination of the dossiers he submitted in due time, re-produced a radio exhibition, chemical and microbiological analyses. It's a process that ended in 2018. However, the decision has so far not been adopted in order to proceed with the procedure for issuing the special operating mark. So our question, Mr Minister, is what measures you intend to take to remove the procedure for the recognition of certain thermal sources of ownership of the Municipality of Ikaria, so that they can continue their operation mark and also temporarily suspend the closure of the sources until the identification and deposit of the file on the specific operating signal is completed. Of course, it will then be ensured that shops are upgraded, ensuring that this intervention is financed and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u45	The Deputy Minister of Tourism, Emmanuel Consolas, will answer. Here, Mr. Consola, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking my dear colleague, Mrs Konnakka Maria, for the opportunity she gives us in the National Representation, to discuss issues relating to the licensing of health and natural resources, as we used to call it in literature, but also in political life, since she has often dealt with self-government and society itself. In the context of this debate I sincerely want to believe that a dialogue is being promoted in order to clarify the procedures needed, so that the natural resources that have not yet been recognised, following this debate, can give incentives to those who are interested, whether in self-government or in individuals on the market, to move forward quickly. As you know, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a specific institutional framework that defines the linear relationship between the authorisation of natural resources in the country. There are, therefore, conditions for these sources to function after the licence and to be awarded the operating mark by the Ministry of Tourism. You quite rightly said, dear colleague, as far as the natural resource 'Apollo' is concerned. The application was lodged on 13 February 2015 by the Municipality of Ikaria. The file of the Ministry of Tourism was filed to identify this source as a physiological source. The committee responsible, i.e. the Committee on the Protection of Physical Natural Resources, examined the dossier. I remind you it was another government. We respect the principle of state continuity, and I do not want to give any responsibility to the previous policy, I am simply presenting these facts, since you also said that they submitted some supporting documents from the Municipality of Ikaria, from the previous municipal authority, which seems to be not complete. Four years later, if necessary, as you said, they had not submitted the necessary supporting documents from the Municipality of Ikaria. There has been constant suggestions from the Ministry of Tourism and there is relevant correspondence submitted to us by the agency, which now on 9 April 2019 to four years later - that there should be an indicative final document of the Ministry calling for microbiological and chemical analyses and topographical charts to be submitted to proceed with this recognition. On 12 July the Municipality of Ikaria replied, but only by submitting the chemical and microbiological analyses and not the topographical notes requested from the relevant service of the Ministry of Tourism. The competent committee of the Ministry of Tourism on 3 September approved microbiological and chemical analysis, but again requested topographics. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I sincerely want to thank the Professor and my fellow Member, Mr Christodoulou Stefanade, who has intervened and collaborated with the Ministry and self-government, so that at last the services of the municipality can submit these relevant documents. You know, my colleague, that if there is no complete dossier, it cannot be discussed by the committee responsible and that such approval is given to give the relevant signal. I would like to conclude by saying that on 30 September the Municipality of Ikaria finally submitted topographically and nine days later, Mr President, I repeat after the completion of the supporting documents, the committee concerned meets, with the encouragement of political leadership and Mr Stefanidis's cooperation, and the committee gives a positive opinion on the recognition of the health resource. Today - and let me put it out in the Minutes - following this decision by the committee, Minister Theocharis signs the relative recognition of the natural resource 'Apollo' of the Municipality of Ikaria as thermal. The next move, as you know, is the publication of the relevant Leaflet of the Official Journal of the Government and the licensing of the installation. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Tourism, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] The Ministry of Tourism will be sure to cooperate with you and invite you to this, but also to the Municipality of Ikaria, with the local authorities, in order to proceed with the further process, so that the sources will eventually function. As far as your question now is concerned about the natural resource 'Spilaio', I can assure you that the Ministry of Tourism has not received any application for recognition of this resource, so the municipality must take the relevant measures or, in cooperation with you - I repeat, move on to this licence too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Konnakka, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, to correct you, it was no accident that I pointed out that the examination of the file began two years after it was lodged in 2015. The deposit of the original file on the sources of the “Ferma” region was complete. However, as a result of the delay in the examination of the dossiers, in 2017 the Committee again requested radiological, chemical and microbiological examinations, considering that a long period has elapsed since the first deposit of the dossier. This, of course, you can understand that it has resulted in the continuing, repeated, on the part of the committee, in an application for new supporting documents, which has delayed the process and created the paradox: The Ministry's committee has delayed the examination of the dossier from 2015 to 2017, which was initiated by the other department of the Ministry, on account of this delay and the obstacles that were created to the municipality, to invoke this delay in order to seal the hydrotherapies, due to the lack of the specific operating mark, which is, of course, the recognition of the committee, which we are informed that it has only been completed today. In other words, he was punished for the delays of the Ministry so much the Municipality of Ikaria, which had been depriving this source of revenue all along, and most importantly he is the part of loss for the bathers, many of whom had serious health problems, which lacked access to health sources. You did not answer whether the government intends at this stage until the issue of the special operating mark has been completed - since it was announced that the procedure for recognition has been completed - to suspend its sealing, because it was certainly not the responsibility of the municipality to delay the examination of the documents. It is, of course, questionable and it is impressive that the dossier and the examination of the dossier, which you also confirm has already been submitted since 2015, is being dealt with at another speed. It gives rise to questions as to whether the committee's objective was to delay the examination of the file of the Municipality of Ikaria, as it was neither of your previous nor of your own choice the outgoing municipal authority, as opposed to others that were tabled at the same time and their examination was made much faster. We do not have the illusion that the government would ever admit it. However, the Ministry must take steps to ensure that the submitted files are examined promptly, to suspend the process of sealing the bathrooms for as long as this lasts and, of course, to ensure that the hydrotherapies are upgraded with modern facilities and adequate staff. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Although the question relates mainly to the sources of Ikaria, it is nonetheless clear that such manipulations and delays, like, of course, the suffocative legislative framework gradually formed between 2006 and today, lead with mathematical accuracy to the further privatization of the thermal sources and to the conversion of this country's wealth into luxury for a few. Already, Minister, with the following procedure a number of bath shops have been sealed, as is the case in Lesvos, Chios and elsewhere in Greece. It is characteristic that the Greek Municipal Association of the Greek Diamatic Sources publishes, that of the hundreds of twenty-four files that by July 2019 had been filed with the relevant committee, only sixty-three had the process been completed, and one of them in July 2019 - I do not know if anything had changed in the intervening period - they had only been licensed ten medical facilities all over the country. So you realise, too, that the described situation is far from being able today to exploit the thermal sources, a wealth of Greece, so that bath therapy can be a social asset and that this can be provided free of charge to those who really need it. Also, for Ikaria baths as well as for where there are baths in the country it is necessary with the responsibility and funding of the state to upgrade existing facilities, to recruit permanent and adequate staff of all specialties for their operation all year round, so that it is possible to subsidise the necessary number of baths to improve health and relieve symptoms of those who need it. In the case of the sources ‘Spain’, a common dossier had been submitted with the sources of ‘Apollo’. In any case, only the recognition at this stage of the sources of "Apollo" is sufficient for the water supply in the area of Therma, and in the first phase will be followed - if a separate dossier has not been filed - and for the source "Spilia". We believe, however, that we must speed up the reopening of the aqueducts which are sufficiently able to operate in the first phase of the waters of the 'Paulon'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Konnakas, I still believe that your question promotes public dialogue and clarifys issues relating to the recognition of natural resources. However, I imagine it has become clear that the recognition of each of the natural resources is a separate recognition procedure. I would like to believe that at least you recognize from this last step by the National Representation that, with this government, very soon since the dossier was completed, the Minister signed the recognition of this natural resource today. As far as the municipality is concerned, I am not in a position to judge. I'm not a citizen of the Municipality of Ikaria. But it must be understood that each one of us has earned what the Ikaria Municipality society has done to the outgoing municipal authority. And I don't want to judge whether they were right-wing or left-wing or with any other sign. What I am interested in is that with this municipality and Mr Stefanade we have worked together to complete this process. In any case, I am glad you recognise that this perspective of the development of tourism in relation to the thermal resources, namely, well-being, health, heating, is an important alternative to the country and I think they can enjoy thirty million visitors this very important tourist destination in Ikaria. I would like to believe that very soon the other resource will be recognised, since there will be a coordinated cooperation, and I also call on you to do so. However, I must tell you that there is no idealism in this government. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of the country from this Step has clearly stated that tourism is the country's great prospect. The gross domestic product contributes to the maximum. In this context, medical tourism can contribute a huge sum to gross national product. In this perspective, natural resources, thermal resources, that is, heat, well-being can be our comparative advantage. Let me submit to the minutes of the House sixty-six natural resources that have been recognised so far by the Ministry of Tourism. Also, in order to avoid any new questions and in order to inform the Greek society, I must also present the fifty and two medical sources that have not yet been identified in all the geographical compartments of the country and the details of the gaps that exist. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Tourism, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] In any case, we must say that in the context of this prospect of developing health tourism in the country you are right that we will be able to deal with issues of health, but also with diseases of musculoskeletal or neurological people who suffer and are able to cope without costs with this disease. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] But at this point let me say that, following the report by the Prime Minister from this step forward, medical tourism is a priority of this government's policy, with the immediate Ministry of Health, I inform you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in very close cooperation with the Ministry of Health, with the administrative and political officials of the Ministry, as well as with the establishment of a cooperation committee in order to conclude procedures that come from the past. So, in the next period, we are trying on the one hand to complete and update the institutional framework in order to clarify who can be active in the field of health tourism, namely who are the providers that can be certified to provide medical tourism services, according to international standards. On the other hand, this committee will make a note of this in order to put forward these incentives so that the two co-legislative ministries can create trades between health establishments and also people on the tourism market, in order to promote this prospect of the public-private partnership and that there is what we are seeking: attracting funds that are now on the world market for medical tourism to exceed EUR 30 billion. Madam President, thank you for the opportunity you have given us a fruitful dialogue. I want to believe that in the next period we will work together to identify the other source. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-14-S1-commons.u51	And I thank you both. At this point, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
