ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 24-10-2019 mandate, the minutes of the Council meeting of Thursday, October 24, 2019, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "I invest in Greece and other provisions".]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention the document of the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, which informs the House of the timely questions. But before I refer to the topical and urgent questions, I would like to thank my fellow Members personally. Lambroulis from the Communist Party, Mr Papanastassis from the Communist Party, Mr Papadopoulos from SYRIZA and Mr Arsenis from MERA25, because they agreed to postpone the four questions that were addressed to the Ministry of Health, to go next week, that is, on Friday, November 1, 2019, so that we can end today at 11 a.m. because it follows the event of the Association of Officials of the Parliament on October 28th. I thank them very much, because without their consent I would not have been able to postpone the questions. In particular, the questions to be postponed are as follows: The third, with number 129/22-10-2019, is the first-round question of the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The functioning of the paediatric clinic of the General Trikalon Hospital." The first, with number 126/22-10-2019, is a topical question from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Athanasios Papadopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Direct cover of gaps in subordinated hospitals”. The third, with number 130/22-10-2019, is a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papanastassis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Escalation at the hospital of Lefkada and the primary health care of the region". The fourth under number 114/18-10-2019 is a topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Health, on the subject: "Application for authorisation to provide health treatment for Panagiotis - Rafael Glossiotis". Also, the fifth question by No. 134/22-10-2019 of the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kosos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Legal compensation" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, who meets with representatives of the European institutions at this time in his Ministry. The second question, under number 119/22-10-2019, of the second question of the Corfu MP of the Change Movement, Mr. Dimitrios Biagis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Previous abandonment of Achilles', will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Member. The second question under number 118/21-10-2019 of the first-round question of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Constantinople to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Objection of measures on the unacceptable and unjustified high charges of banks in simple handling procedures and a great burden on consumers by using debits and credit cards", will not be discussed due to the lack of responsibility of the Minister. The eighth Question No 135/22-10-2019, by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To take immediate measures on the arbitrary and excessive charges of banks to consumers and businesses", will not be discussed due to the lack of competence of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Colleague, you have the floor, but why are you asking for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to make a reference to the question you said that the Minister does not come because of lack of competence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u5	Are you talking about Mr. Karamanlis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u6	Oh, no. Mr. Karamanlis and I have come to an agreement. He's justified with an official...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u7	So, you're talking about the reason for lack of responsibility of the Ministry of Finance...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u8	I'm talking about the reason why the Treasury is unresponsible. If you'll excuse me, I'll say two words and make three papers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor. But be brief, because today I am pressurized in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u10	If the Minister responsible was here, I think the question would have been properly asked. I would like to submit to the House three documents, which show that there is not only competence, but that the State Secretary responsible for the financial system owes his government precisely to this responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. I am tabling the official website of the Ministry, which formally calls Mr George Zavvos the Deputy Minister of Finance responsible for the financial system. This is the first document. Second document, which I would like to submit, is the FEK on the responsibilities of Mr George Zavvos, which is the exercise of powers and on the financial policy address of the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs, which also has parliamentary powers, and finally, I shall submit the document showing that the financial policy management has something to do with the policy of the country's credit institutions and private insurance. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These three documents show that not only has responsibility, but the entire competence of the State Secretary is related to the financial institution. The question concerns the policy of banks with high charges. I find it completely unacceptable that the Minister should avoid coming here today. Mr President, this has never happened before. The ministers have said many times that it may not be the case. Because here I am speaking on the basis of logic now, I think someone has "fucked it up". Not to us such tricks. He's in charge and he's coming here to answer next time. I want you to let Mr. President know...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u11	Yeah, but please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u12	We're not done, Mr. President. We'll be back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u13	Do what you want. You have lodged your complaint and filed the documents, which I will receive. The word'screams' in introductory words. I don't think an old parliamentarian should say such things. From there, of course, you have the right to redeem it. But, to tell him I was right, don't look at it. So far 90% of the ministers have been present in questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u14	They're the same. Some of them are gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u15	It's 90%. You have picture and you know it. I've been notified that Mr. Hatzidakis is on his way. We'll change the show a little. The first question will be debated now under No 125/22-10-2019 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary Corfu Coalition of the Radical Left, Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti, on the subject: "Departmentation of coastal front to the Municipality of Central Corfu". It will be answered by the Secretary of State, Mr. Besiropoulos. Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretary, you know - and I'm sure you do - the whole thing. It is a matter of time-consuming, a problem of great size in Corfu and especially in the city of Corfu. His solution was launched at the time of the country's governance by SYRIZA. In fact, there has been the drafting of the bill for the concession of the coastal front to the Municipality of Corfu and now to the Municipality of Central Corfu. There is one terrible, in my view, paradoxical thing about the whole coastal front, that there is a competence of three public bodies. In other words, if you have a picture from the bay of Garitsa, the sidewalk that is on the sea side of the sea, belongs to the Port Authority of Corfu - now it has been declassified - the main road belongs to the region and it is immediately across the sidewalk in the Municipality of Corfu. Also, next to the base of the old fortress, since 1935 the Naval Sports Club of Corfu has been active, without all the legal conditions being available to exploit and manage the small port that is there, which is essentially the source of revenue for its operation. It's a historical union. It's identical to Corfu and Naval Sports. I must therefore tell you that I have tabled a timely question, because it is indeed a timely question, in the sense that this unacceptable legal and political situation should be stopped. The terrestrial zone has already been declassified, it has been published in the Official Journal of the Government and, as I have the information, it has been written - I say again - and the bill in all its details. It was put under consultation with the Municipality of Corfu in all institutions, as well as with the citizens of Corfu. I would therefore ask you to answer the two questions I have asked, if you are considering adopting this position of the previous government, whether you will bring this bill to a vote or in any case any bill you draw up and when you will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u17	The Deputy Minister of Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to inform you that I am aware of this and I have discussed it personally with the Mayor of Corfu, Mrs Hydraios, as well as with the Member, Mr Gikas. In this regard, as you already know, on the coastal front and in the area of Corfu, there was a fixed area of the port of Corfu, but the limits of the Aegean and the beaches were not fixed by the competent authority. But, at the request of the Port Authority, at the request of the Commission. 141.592-9-7-2018, decision of the coordinator of the decentralised administration of the Peloponnese, western Greece and Ionion, the limitlines were finally defined. Then, and at the new request of the Port Authority of Corfu, again to the coordinator of decentralised administration, a large part of the Aegean, from the Cafe Gyali area (Arsenios road) to the windmill, was declassified from land-based port. The declassification means that this section, in accordance with Article 2 of Law 2971/2001, remains public, with the aim of free and undivided access for citizens to the sea. Also, under Article 13 of Law 2971/2001, this site of the Ayalos since the declassification day has been automatically granted for simple use in the Municipality of Corfu. Now the municipality asks the public concession to be able to regenerate the area by creating sports and recreational infrastructures. The problem, however, is that the ownership status of the specific areas of the coastal front has not been clarified in order to register as a public property and then follow the procedures laid down. That is why your government, Mr Colleague, has not proceeded with the concession, and not, of course, because it has not made any progress, but because it has done nothing to clarify the region's property regime and protect public property. Besides, in turn, the Ministers of Government SYRIZA since 2018 and in particular Mr Kourublis and Mr Kouvelis have been talking about the forthcoming concession of the coastal front, without doing so. And do not try to lay down the responsibilities for this delay in the previous administration of the Port Authority, because I must remind you that you have appointed this administration. For our part, there is the willingness to move forward, with the difference that we want to move forward in a structured way, to clarify the ownership status and to make the concession to the municipality and the Corfu Navy in the way that must be done. I shall refer to my remarks, Mr Colleague, on what has already been done by us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Aylonite has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, Mr Secretary, I did not ask this timely question to conflict with you. The only purpose was to initiate, as soon as possible, the process. If there are typical problems that will have to be stopped, it is your responsibility to eliminate them and achieve the goal. I must say, however, that I have in my hands the bill drawn up under the SYRIZA Government. It was ready to testify, in fact, but it actually prevented all this from happening that we had self-government elections and then national elections. If there are legal problems of this kind, it is certain that you will deal with them. What I am interested in, however, the Municipality of Central Corfu and all the inhabitants of the island is that you proceed directly to the concession so that the implementation of a time-limit of local self-government can proceed on this coast and stop these loose ends from happening. In particular, I should like to stress the following. There has been a point of tension for many years how it manages - and if there is a legal basis - the sports club's facilities, how it receives money, etc. These must be lifted and the coastal front must be attributed where it belongs to the inhabitants of Corfu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Besiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u22	Mr Colleague, perhaps some to deal with this as a field and a matter of party controversy. However, we see it as an issue on which a solution must be found, in the interests of the quality of life of the citizens. As I said to you, the main issue is the clarification of the ownership status of this particular area. In the area of Spilia, after the modification and redefinition of the boundaries of the terrestrial zone, the existing shaped square of Spilia, which includes the monument of the Unknown Soldier, the fountain and the square of OAED, is free. This square in the current General Urban Plan is characterised as urban green, open space and green space, and is not included in the stream plan. In the Municipality of Corfu the realisation of the National Stock Exchange was completed on 17-7-2007. In the computer files, however, Spilias Square appears not to have been attributed to the public. As you can see, the ownership status of the entire declassified area is questionable, according to the archives of the Stock Exchange. So, to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past, we gather information from other competent bodies (Business and Port Authority), in order to move from the public (private and public) to the concession. In fact, we need to amend the contract between the Greek State and the Port Authority. Now, as regards the issue of the facilities of the Corfu Naval Group, the group applied on 24-6-2019 to the Corfu Land Administration on the issue of its facilities and further information has been requested, since in order to provide the use of works and facilities that have been executed illegally within the Aegean Sea and the sea at the Corfu Naval Group, it should be investigated whether the process of the Hagialou and the beach has been complied with. In any case, keep in mind that we intend, after overcoming all the obstacles, to examine compliance with the conditions for the concession of part of the coastal front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u23	We are now returning to the list series. Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis will answer the two following questions. The sixth question will now be discussed under number 132/22-10-2019, first question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Manolis Synhronakis, on the subject: "To operate the Recyclable Materials Selection Centre (KDAY) in Heraklion Industrial Area (BIPE) with a view to safeguarding the jobs and occupational and insurance rights of workers". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are talking about the operational and labour problems of Heraklion, the recycling plant, which have become even more acute in relation to the past, with concern for the workers, the inhabitants of two counties, Heraklion and Lassithi and the fourth largest municipality in the country, Heraklion, which are also the recipients of the consequences. Three are the key issues I want to raise. Firstly, the operation of the plant is in the air. The contract of the current company with the ESDC, the recycling company, which has the responsibility of the CRA, has expired on 10 October. On the side of the ESDP, neither a voice nor a hearing. By its own responsibility, no tendering procedure has been opened for the award of the project, a condition for the continued operation of the plant, as was the case in all previous years. All available is oral information to workers that the contract is extended until 31/12-2019. From then on, no voice or hearing. Secondly, at regular intervals the plant is decommissioned by damage to machinery due to a lack of maintenance by the contractor operating them. The result is that recyclable materials are thrown into the DUTY CYTA, and that happens every time the factory doesn't work. It tends to be a rule. It's a scandal really, when the public pays the recycling three times, without it happening. Thirdly, there are serious complaints by workers about the lack of essential hygiene and safety measures at the plant, resulting in constant accidents at work, crimes in the large majority, non-payment of time-consuming and leave allowance. For all the above, the Association of Private Employees of Heraklion, to which they are subject, has submitted a request for a meeting from 26 September to the relevant Ministries and stakeholders to discuss the future of recycling and workers. Until now, they have not received any answers at all, despite a number of inconveniences. Silence, that is, indifference. The responsibility, in our view, is burdening the government, local government and its institutions. You have the responsibility of operating the CDE, as well as the supervision through the Hellenic Recycling Agency and the ESA to comply with the rules. In view of the seriousness of the situation, of the circumstances in this CPI, of the workers' work hostage, of the risks to the safety and health of workers, which, in our view, are a consequence of the privatisation of recycling and of the overall management of waste, we ask you: What measures will you take, in order to ensure the functioning of the Heraklion CSCE under state control, to ensure all the jobs and employment relations of the workers, to repay the company's debts to workers, to immediately and retroactively transform the trademarks into heavy and unhealthy and to ensure that the health and safety measures are complied with, and finally, to hold this infamous meeting of the parties involved with the workers, in order to discuss all this problem that has arisen and analysed you earlier? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u26	Mr Synhronakis, it is obvious from what you and from the information I have that there is a problem with malfunction at the Recyclable Material Selection Centre in Heraklion. There is no doubt about that, and we will try to do our best to deal with the problem. You understand, too, regardless of our ideological differences, that within three months all the issues of the country cannot be dealt with. But that does not mean that we will in no way be indifferent. Based on the information I have and received from the Greek Recycling Agency, the system - as it is called - is called - the collection of alternative management under the name "Greek Recycling Corporation", the ESA, which you referred to and which is a private company, in which the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, the CEDE, has been involved with 35%, has submitted to EEAN, the Greek Recycling Agency, since October 1, 2019, a three-month extension of a cooperation contract with WASTE SOLUTIONS, dated 31-12-2019. This cooperation is therefore being extended until the end of the year. This is official, based on the information I have. Obviously, this convention - you have already dealt with the issue from what I have seen, already in 2016 - is subject to the laws of the Greek state and the Contracting Parties are responsible in the event of their obligations not being fulfilled, both in relation to recycling and the rights of workers. Now, EOAN, the Greek Recycling Agency, the body supervised by the Ministry, informed me, after contacting the Greek Recycling Company, working with WASTE SOLUTIONS, that the Hellenic Recycling Company explores all possible possibilities of cooperation with local government in order to reach it the full selection of the Recyclable Materials Selection Center, either in the municipality or in the FITIS of the region. This is an initial X-ray of the situation. Of course, there is the issue of labour rights. All efforts are made to ensure that there is no violation of labour rights. And because I see that my time is running out, I'm going to go on with my disposition on labour rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u28	In relation to what you said, Minister, that you are three months in the country's governance, this does not deny responsibility for the fact that the project has not yet been assigned. These are some procedures, whether you are or are some other government. Because I am well aware of the issue, since 2012, the workers have played an old-fashioned game and have indeed won too much against a single front of governments, the Greek Recycling Company and the municipal authorities. There is one question here, however. Why this fault frequency, the factory's interruptions and the deposition of materials to the HYTA? It's a question. Are they irrelevant? They don't know the object? Is mechanical equipment obsolete? What is the real cause of the continuous closures of the plant? The indifference, all right, is given. This puts us in reasonable suspicions about an attempt to depreciate recycling as a form of management of waste proactively, as no longer beneficial to business interests, possibly pressing for a change in the management model. I would like to make a general comment. What workers experience, the party made with the gold foil lining on waste, is a key feature of your own sustainable development and the fair growth of SYRIZA before. You know very well that it is going to be about 1 billion to unravel business groups from the NSRF 2014-2020, from state loans through the European Investment Bank, investing in expensive waste treatment plants with PPP, with a minimum recycling rate, burying garbage and legalising combustion. After all, we are already living in Volos and Attica and in other areas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In our view, all this is gradually leading to the full commercialisation and privatisation of the waste management sector, with dramatic consequences for workers and residents, which will also be the final recipients of all these consequences. We are waiting to see this proposal made by the EAW to the EAW. in relation to local government. However, we are very afraid that even local government, which is a state mechanism, will rely on this false and provocative principle of 'polluter pays', which means that there will be even more contributory fees, cleanliness services - after all, yesterday, we voted on the bill - and the foundations for the application of the 'pays' rule are laid down. So all this planning, in our view, is consciously to devalue this model of recycling and lead to waste management in the logic of combustion, and indeed, with public-private partnerships.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u29	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Mr President. We say that it should end privatisation in general, that all business activities in the management sector should be abolished. We say no to incineration of waste - what I said to you earlier - no, of course, to shift weights to popular layers through compensation fees or in any other way. Safeguard workers. All this, obviously, can be done in the context of a single waste management and disposal body based on popular needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Symphony, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u32	...with permanent staff, full rights and modern equipment of these factories. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I should like to add, with regard to my first place of work, that the WASTE SOLUTIONS company has paid off - according to the information we have at least - its staff, who are fifty-five workers, by August 2019. On October 18 - a few days ago - Heraklion Labour Relations Inspectorate asked to provide full payroll and bank deposit with respect to the accrued earnings of September 2019 and the 2019 leave allowance to the employees of the company. The local agency of Heraklion shall monitor the activities carried out by WASTE SOLUTIONS and within the deadlines provided for in the audit procedure, if necessary, in further actions. There are no deductions from the state's point of view in this respect. With effect from 1 August, Mr Syntagakis, until now the Labour Inspectorate has carried out six audits and reviewers in this company, and has also filed a complaint for failure to operate security systems in the screening film. In this company - I have no reason to hide them or have no right to hide them - there have been some accidents at work, most of which have not been large, except for a serious accident at the company's premises and concerned a self-employed contracted contractor from the owner of the premises to repair a metal door for the entry of trucks. The last accident concerns a 'WAST SOLUTIONS' employer on 5 October, and it is a chemical burn from battery fluids. The accident is under investigation and in the event of a lack of security measures, a petition will be sent to the prosecutor. We don't want to cover anything up. Again, we may have our ideological differences, but people are human and workers and the protection of their rights is a priority for our own government. From there on, I do not have the time to talk more about recycling. Let's not ideology it. A lot can be said about both the public and the private sectors. In one, I think, we can agree, Mr Syntagakis, that we are the last of the last of these throughout the European Union. This must strike a bell to all of us, to the government, to the opposition, to self-government, to the citizens. We cannot keep up with all this delay at European level, and I do not think we can believe that there is another solution to the issue of recycling, beyond the policies which, with various variations, apply to the Member States of the European Union. The Member States of the European Union are the most advanced states in Europe and I would say to the world Well, let's see what's going on in the most advanced countries in Europe, and let's move them over here too. It is a matter of culture, it is a question of respect for our own children, and in this spirit the government is dealing with it, and in this spirit we shall also address this issue. We are not going to make a discount either on the companies or on the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u35	We move on to the second question that Mr Hatzidakis will answer. It is the seventh question under number 123/22-1-19 on the second question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Dangerous administrative gap in the Metropolitan Park "Antonis Tritsis". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I too welcome you to the debate. It's important that you come, instead of State Secretarys who have no authority. We're talking about western Athens. The West Athens, which is the Park "Antonis Tritsi", is currently being pushed multiplely. It goes hand in hand with the Gender HYTA, whichever is illegally continuing to operate with the extensions. It is different from the pollution carried from ‘Thriasio’, which environmental inspectors are unable to control because the service is undersubordinated. It comes from the Metropolitan Church of Lamia that claims the entire Polikilos Mount, two hundred twenty blocks and huge forest area, which the Forest Service did not go to the court and was firstly lost. The appeal is now, on the 5th of the month. Against all this, he has one thing: the Antonis Tritsis Park. It is not just a Metropolitan Park, Antonis Tritsi Park, it is a compensatory benefit for all that is borne by this area. It's very important. With the previous government, there have been some things, halfway through. There was a management body, which somehow worked something. There was a law that said it was a thousand acres the "Antonis Tritsi" Park. The six hundred were a park, but the rest had not been declared a park. It had to be the spatial plan. The previous government did not proceed with the plan. But you're not going through with it. He wasn't protecting the park's character. You transfer it to the region, leaving the headless for three months, where the management body had to deliver even the keys to the Ministry's protocol. You are showing that not only do you not continue the lack of the previous government's work, but you are actually throwing the ball in the region without protecting the public character of the park, without protecting its own infrastructure, especially when it is three months away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u37	Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u38	Mr Arseni, I'm afraid you're wronging us and you're wronging us too much, and I'll explain immediately why. I personally have been a Member of this particular region, where Antonis Tritsis Park has been a member for twelve years, from 2007 until this year the second Athens was scorched. I therefore know the adventures of the "Antonis Tritsi" Park, which was an ambitious plan, and I wish he had flesh and bones as envisioned by those who envisioned it. Sadly, however, after the first years of operation, the Park "Antonis Tritsis". He had several adventures. He had the tops and bottoms, but he was on a course of deterioration without any doubt. Without despising the efforts made by anyone on any side and the good intentions they all had, I cannot agree with you that the picture was positive. It was probably more positive than 2015 and 2016, possibly. But because I went and saw it with my eyes - I did not read it - believe that no Greeks, not politicians, but no Greeks and certainly no local residents, can be pleased with the picture I have seen. I'm not saying that to blame anyone. I do not think we will win or lose the next elections from the image of Antonis Tritchi Park, but I share what I have seen. I went on August 20th and sat down two hours and went all over the park. The waters that were supposed to flow in the park don't roll. I saw fish dead and others in the gutter. The lamps were broken. The guard was incomplete, not to say it didn't exist. In front, as I was walking, I saw occupied spaces of collectives, which decided so to understand this park, because in their understanding the park is theirs and not the citizens of the wider region and Athens. It was an unacceptable picture. Because I have some specific perceptions on my route in relation to management - right or wrong - it doesn't matter, however - I think the ministries are not park managers. They can't be park managers. It's not our job. The Ministries must have executive powers. There was an unprecedented situation here in relation to the board of directors. The President was posted by the Region of Attica, other members from the Ministry, other members from institutions and universities and so on. Out of the way, money didn't exist, management-- substantial management, as I mean management-- there wasn't any, and that's why the park was marvelous. We decided yesterday in Article 205 of the Interministerial Legislation that the park should be passed on to the Region of Attica. You may not like Mr. Patolis. It's your right. You did not vote for him, I suppose, but he was elected by a large percentage. I believe that, as is the manager of the "Plade of Mars" for example, the Region of Attica can also be the manager of the "Place of Tritsis" in collaboration with the two mayors of the region, Mr. Zenetto, Mayor of Ilios and Mr. Tsirbas, the Mayor of St. Anargyros, who agreed to the solution. It therefore agrees with the solution given by the regional government and both municipalities agree. I also believe that the vast majority of people agree. I believe deeply, although I do not think that the park will become a paradise, perhaps, that the situation will improve, precisely because the people who are closest to the park will have it, live the park and have the technical means to do so. So wait a few months and I think you will agree with us that the intervention we made was a proper intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Arseni, you have the floor with your comfort of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u40	Minister, you said you found a very bad situation, but your main answer was to leave the headless park unmanaged for three months. This clearly does not improve this situation. My question is a simple question. If it wasn't from New Democracy, would you send the park to the periphery? I think you wouldn't send it. You're telling me I'm wrong with you. However, how can I not really question your environmental intentions when even on the issue of liberation, which you have set a target by 2028, did you decide on Wednesday to extend the environmental licensing - I put it in the Minutes - of Unit IV of Megalopolis until 2029, Minister? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are already violating this great environmental commitment of yours before the sound of the UN chambers, which the Prime Minister said is a key commitment to liberation. How do we not receive as superficial and falsified your environmental commitments? That's the problem. The problem is that with this decision for Unit IV of Megalopolis - your anti-environmental target is stripped. All this pretext for the environmental cloak that you had clothed ends is crumbled. So how can we believe your intentions for the park are positive?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u42	You say, Mr. Arsenis, we left the park headless. Why did we leave the park headless? He had his previous administration all this time, which you say he made some moves. We have not forbid her all this quarter of this administration, which you see with a positive eye, to operate. We didn't change the administration. The administration came a few days ago and after we tabled the amendment in essence and said, I leave, I give the keys. Nowadays, there is a new status in the park. You say, if it wasn't for Mr. Patulis, would you give it? I would, of course, give it because my conviction that I am not a park manager, my conviction that the ministries are executive bodies and not bodies dealing with these kinds of issues is on my own political DNA. And forgive me for saying that like that, using a personal tone, but those who know me know I am. That is what I have always believed, well or bad, and that is what I still believe. I therefore believe that regions and self-government must acquire an entity, because this is the case throughout Europe. You were a Member of the European Parliament, the President, Mr Kaklamanis, and I was also a Member of the European Parliament. We know that we are too far behind and we must trust self-government. I at least trust her. From there on, for the frustration, I saw some announcements that have come out. Don't be in a hurry. You're all in a hurry. Wait two months. I'm not asking you for any more patience. Only two months until the national energy and climate plan is announced. Then you will see that the government's program for liberation is forward-looking. We do not all rush to Greece to draw conclusions when we have specific time milestones ahead. We are not talking about three years and after ten years, we are talking about two months. So wait, and you will see that everything you say about liberation and, of course, about Megalopolis is unfounded, Mr Arseni. The Ministry of the Environment has an ambitious agenda for defoliation, which will proceed to the end and at a very high speed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u43	Good, because I've known Mr. Hatzidakis for years, I keep everything he said. It's just, as an old self-government, not the central government to charge them to self-government without resources. Because until now everything that has been loaded by self-government has been mostly unresourced. I'm writing it down. We move to the fourth with number 122-22-10-2019, a timely question for the first cycle of MP 2 North Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: “Installation of police forces into two Athens cinemas during the projection of the film “Joker”. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, since I thank you, as always, for the goodness of being here to answer my question, I shall proceed immediately to the point. Just last weekend, on the 19th and 20th of the month we were running, police forces invaded two different movies in the capital. In one case in Maroussi and in the other case in Kipseli, in order to remove minors who were following the extremely recently awarded Venice Festival with Golden Leo, which is the highest distinction, film by Tom Phillips entitled "Joker". In the first case seven minors unaccompanied and in the second case eight unaccompanied minors and four together with their parents were removed from the movies, they were taken to a police station, where they were held. In both cases the complaint came from two women employees of the Ministry of Culture according to the statement by these same women to the police station, where this story continued. In both cases in their statement they say that they did not act on their own initiative and, if not on the command of their supervisor, in cooperation with her. So I ask you: do we live, Minister, in a police-driven society? Special guards invade cinemas, invoking Law 445/1937, please, a law of the Metaxas dictatorship? Invoking dictatorial anachronistic backward laws give an alibi for hipidism and police invasions? Who and why is afraid and criminalize art? Why prevent children from seeing a movie, when daily news reports, in Greece, are bombing them with violence and blood? How do we ask young people to go to vote at the age of 17, when at the same time we forbid them to develop critical and political thinking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u45	Me too, Mr. Gregoryde. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the facts are as follows: On 12.33' on 19 October 2019 at the direct Action Centre, he called a domestic woman, who said that in a film room "Village Cinemas" in Maroussi there was a film that they were watching minors. Immediately an Amaroussi Police Department patrol vehicle was notified to handle the incident. Police officers of the above department, the Amarousi Police Department, went to the movies in the commercial center "The Mall" in Maroussi, where they were expected by the calling official of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, who indicated minors who were watching the film "Joker", who are inappropriate for minors. Subsequently, the complainant, the filmmaker and seven minors, together with their parents, travelled with the same in the Amaroussi Police Department. At the end of the preliminary investigation procedure and at the hearing of the Advocate General, they left the police department and the case-file was submitted to the Advocate General. On 17.24'' on 20 October 2019 also in the direct Action Centre there was a new call from a domestic woman who said that in the “AELO” film room there was a movie that they were watching minors. A car from the Patisian Police Department went to the cinema called “AELO”, where two women, who said they were employees of the Ministry of Sports and Culture, demonstrated the relevant documents and asked for the removal of minors from the room where the film entitled “Joker” was presented. The police, in collaboration with the officials of the above Ministry, together with the film employees, were kindly asked to leave the room for the young spectators to leave the room, who also did so voluntarily and with the opportunity to cooperate. Ten minors were in the room, two of whom were accompanied by their parents. The parents of the rest were informed, they went to the point where they received their children without making any representations to the police department. The case is investigated by the Police Department of Hive and, following instructions from the prosecutor of criminal proceedings, the case-file set up is submitted to the competent prosecutor. The following October 21st, the above-mentioned officials from the Ministry of Culture and Sport, met with the commander of the service, to whom they gave oral thanks for the impeccable and professional behaviour of the policemen who took over the two incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm sorry. You did not answer any of my questions at all. I'm impressed by that. My two questions contained six questions. You didn't answer. I don't really know why you didn't answer anyone. Questions are specific. You described what happened with few variations from what I already described in my question. I know very well what happened. The main theme here is: We are in 2019. We use a law of Metaxas, a law of a dictatorship, a law that has escaped four revisions of the Constitution - God knows why, unacceptable, that is also - and the police are entering the cinemas. Can you imagine any European or any civilised country in the world that in its capital would happen for a movie that is with the boulder, with a seal, perhaps the best, the greatest art in the world? Did you not answer my second question from now on: When these minors themselves see unraveled babies in Syria every day, is there any logic in the state when it prevents them from seeing a movie masterpiece? The main thing, however, is that the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Chrysochoidis, in his actions these days, has given us the best example and best argument for me. I mean, he took his 15-year-old juvenile son and went and saw this movie. What was the police supposed to do in your opinion? To go arrest Chrysochoid and his son? To keep them and to decide, after the case-file has been transmitted, whether to send it to the House, to lift Mr Chrysochide's immunity? Is that what you're telling me with your answer? When a law, Minister, is unacceptable, it is bad, it is irrational, it is fascist, it is silk remnant, then disobedience, resistance is the duty of every democratic citizen, as is the Minister who has rightly done and I honor him for it. It is an absolutely justified task, and indeed a necessary, political and moral act, whether it is a minister or a 15-year-old. So let's not separate the Minister from the fifteen-year-olds who went to the movie. It is not only what I said about the Royal Decrees of 1930. It also applies to memos, to environmental mining contracts, to anti-terrestrial regulations. I hope that the Minister, who has been very good in this case, will show exactly the same sensitivity to yesterday's incident. I'm telling you about the direct flashing of a student block, resulting in the most serious injury to a student member of the Mera25. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u49	Before I give the floor to the State Secretary, I would like to say that with some of the things you said, Mr Gregoriadis, I agree, but in your final proposal, which, if I understood correctly, you are asking for a revision of the current law, is not the immediate Ministry of Civil Protection, it is the Ministry of Culture. Hence the update of the Law of 1937, which took place in 2010, was made by the then Minister of Culture Mr. Geroulanos. Perhaps you should come back to the Minister for Culture on this most specific subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u50	You're absolutely right. I said it to hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u52	You referred to the provision of the law that is 2010, but the much discussed provision of Article 37(3) of Law 3905/2010 states: “It is forbidden to monitor inappropriate films to minors who have not completed the required age of the film. Anyone who allows minors to enter a room or an outdoor area where a film that is inappropriate for their age is punished with a penalty of EUR 1,000 to 10,000. The execution of this act shall be punished by a penalty of EUR 500 to 5,000.’ This provision shall enter into force. There was no prediction to change. It is the provision whereby the two officials of the competent primary committee of the Ministry of Culture asked for police intervention. The police have to do their job and implement the laws rather than judge the constitutionality of a law or implement it as appropriate. If it is judged by the parliamentary body that the law is not modern or is strictly strict and must be reviewed or changed, it is something that will be decided by the House. Parliament legislates and the police implements. In fact, what has been heard in recent days about the invasion of all-armed police officers of the ECAM or of police-led society and darkness are unfair to the Greek police and the Greek police officer, who daily, under adverse conditions, with high professionalism, zeal and self-determination, gives his best self to strengthen the sense of security for the citizens. And with regard to yesterday's incident and the injury of the citizen who took part in the protest, I would say that you forgot to mention the injury of a police officer, who was transferred to the 401 Military Hospital, where the first aid was offered to him. You should be aware that the injury of the policeman, but also of the citizen, took place within a framework, when a group of fifty and eighty people, hoodmen, with covered features, throwing stones, marbles, cadrons, etc., were extracted from the crowd and attacked with particular violence and cruelty against the police forces, who, in any case, were trying to keep the barrier, as was planned and anticipated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u53	Well, he wasn't our student among the hoodmen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u54	No, he made it clear. He said about the cause of the episode.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u55	You are well aware that the passionate individual refused to come and testify in the context of the preliminary investigation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u56	He has testified, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u57	From the point of view of Greek police, Attica Security Directorate has been seized on the crimes committed during this demonstration, with the violent and particularly cruel attack of a party of protesters seconded from the main course and in relation to the police's injury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u58	Well, thank you both very much. I think there's been a nice conversation. By judging by the latest statements made by the Prime Minister on this matter, Mr Gregoriadis, we are probably in the light of a revision of the 2010 Act. I hope it will happen and you will not have to come back after a month or two. Before I declare the meeting closed, in order to become the established celebration of the workers' club on October 28th, I feel the need to recall that tomorrow a year has been completed since the murder of Constantine Katsifa and even his family, his apologies and Greeks, here in Greece, we expect to know what happened that day. There's still no finding. This, together with the violation of the human rights of the Greek minority in Albania, I would like to believe that it will be a matter of discussion. As I read in the papers next week, we will be visiting Mr. Eddie Rama. I only have to say it's 'everlasting memory'. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is adjourned. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-25-S1-commons.u59	With the consent of the House, 10.15 minutes will be closed. Time ending 10.15 ́.
