ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to inform you that the draft state budget for the year 2020 was submitted today. The draft has been posted on Parliament's website. The relevant document of the Ministry of Finance shall read as follows: "We reserve the preliminary draft State Budget 2020, in accordance with Article 79(3) of the Constitution and paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure and please introduce it into the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs for discussion." It shall be submitted to the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, I would like to inform you that the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House of the following in writing: ‘We hereby inform you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Monday 7 October 2019 that it is impossible to present the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Dendas, to address the Questions Nos 44/24-9-2019 and 55/1-10-2019 as a result of an impediment to a government mission abroad under Rule 131(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.’ Ladies and gentlemen, the topical questions which will be discussed today are as follows: The numbers 50/1-10-2019 and 56/1-10-2019 which will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni. Question No 46/25-9-2019 will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Question No 57/1-10-2019 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. So we begin the debate with the second item number 46/25-9-2019 on the first question of the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on "Direct actions for the Music Gymnasium in Kavosi Lassithi, which was closed before he even opened". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Mr Colleagues, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, it literally closed before it even opened. The Kavosio Music Gymnasium in Lassithi was founded in May 2019, but the decision to allow registrations was signed and published on 29 August and six days later, the regional director adopted the decision on which sections will function. The decision was adopted on 6 September and the suspension was suspended on 9 September. In other words, four to five days were allowed to go to the Lassithi Music Gymnasium, which would have worked for the first time and on the other hand there was no attempt to inform all pupils and parents through the municipal authorities and through the Parents' Association that it would have the results expected to have, since it was a mature demand from local society. Lassithi, I would say, has a rich tradition both in music and poetry and generally in arts. It is Mr Digalakis here and the Minister for Culture to confirm this, and you, of course, know that it is the prefecture that is being dealt with further - if we could say so, away from the other prefectures, because of the evangelical tradition - and the letters and the arts without having the prerequisites, because in the other prefectures there are all that can be described as culture, but in Lasithi it is done without the infrastructure and without what the prefecture should have. A mature demand came within a few days to be implemented and before the local society could even react, this right was removed from her. I want your opinion, Minister, for the fact. You must also tell us your actions so that, even now, this possibility can be given - it has now become known - and that the school operates. In any case, the other schools that have been launched in the rest of the country with a corresponding process of establishment and initiation have not yet entered the normal programmes. In other words, the suspension of the school's service should be suspended and it should function properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u5	Mr. MEP, take given the support of the current leadership of the Ministry of Education in music schools, not only with the special musical tradition that the prefecture can have, but more generally throughout Greece with the separate reference and imprint that these schools have, not only in music education, but also in the culture of children. That is why you can see that in the same decision we gave the approval of these schools, we also signed for artistic and musical schools, which are currently in operation. So I would not like it in any way to be called into question - I imagine you would never want to do so - the will of this leadership to help these projects that are given the opportunity. So, with the kindness of time given us, I would like to take you back a little while and tell you that on 11 February 2019 the Ministry was informed - we were not there, the previous political leadership - by Lassithi's Director of Secondary Education that the number of children concerned, students to be registered in the First Class of Music High School was then 50. These were the elements that we had in terms of the interest that seemed to exist for this Music Gymnasium. Three months have passed since the establishment by Mr Gavroglou. The Ministerial Decision establishing the Music High School in Lasithi was adopted on 17 May 2019. I repeat that the first briefing by the Director of Secondary Education was on February 11, 2019. On August 1, 2019, and while we were already in charge of the Ministry, the Regional Director of Crete, Mr. Kartsonakis sent a positive recommendation on the start of the school, along with the information, Mr. MEP, on the course of the work that had to be done by the municipality in the specific area to be housed in high school. Indeed, some work had to be done. I repeat, this decision has just been sent to my office, and I signed it immediately. Immediately after that, we also gave the approval for all the necessary actions for the real operation of the school, which they were, by setting up a Committee for the Selection of Students who would eventually be in school. So we did two necessary actions that prove our will and commitment to operating this school. It was set exceptionally - precisely because we had the will that I told you - that the selection procedure would take place on 9 September with a planned period of registration, which you mentioned, from 29 August to 6 September. Once the local society knew about it and obviously expected it, it would probably have been updated on the dates of registration. Normally, the selection procedure, Mr.Police, takes place from 15 to 30 June each year for the next school year. How many students have come to finally register before the examination procedure? Just six. And let us be careful that even in a very optimistic scenario, which all children were going to succeed in the examination process, we would eventually remain in a very small number to start a new school. The Regional Director of Crete on 9 September indeed suspended the operation of the Lassithi Music High School. From the Ministry's point of view, I am here today to assure you that we have exhausted every margin for the operation of the school, moving immediately on to all the necessary measures. Since informing the previous leadership of the secondary director and finally the ministerial decision, it is already in the quarter. And we reach a point where we are already on 7 October and the children have obviously started their school year in other schools. The procedure for entries could not be extended. I can, however, commit myself to the fact that, for the next school year, in cooperation with both the municipality and the local education authorities, I will be the first to publish the possibility of starting the Music School, because we want the music schools and we want to strengthen the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Mr Colleague, you have three minutes to answer the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, one could say that it is a good thing to promise on your part that next year the school will work. However, I would like to point out two - three things, because I believe that the necessary actions have not been taken on the part of the Ministry and the so-called 'Ministry' - I also include regional services. You're nothing different. The regional director and county manager are the same thing, Ministry. It acts either at the command or in the Ministry's name with the responsibilities you have given and the managers have. I mean, then, that local society reacted and reacted because it was faced with a fait accompli. There was no information procedure and there was a closure procedure. So I contacted another area - you know very well - where an artistic school was founded. How did you do it? How did you get that briefing? And I'm talking about a school that's in the same decision of 29 August. First, there were twice as many years to be informed and registered. They had at least until 11 September, and that is reflected in the statements. So the director of this prefecture, speaking on the radio in Lassithi, said "we asked for a trawl, to further inform the managers" and all those who had declared interest in a large percentage were eventually enrolled in the artistic school. In other words, it is not just a question of the short time available to students and parents, it is also a question of not energising those responsible in order to achieve results. Time was half of what in other cases. In this sense, I say that it is a huge responsibility for the services and the Ministry which the school did not work this year. In my opinion, it can work. They have not yet started their courses in the other regions. Recruitment has not yet been carried out in the other regions, so that the departments can function. It could, in other words, even now be implemented. A month from the day we reacted, from the day when I asked the question, on 13 September, we had all the time until 30 September in order for the school to function. In any case, I must tell you that the municipal council has a unanimous decision. You've already received it. There are no issues, and I hope that your reference is not reproaching the municipality for not doing what it had to do. I think the will of local society is so great that it can do more than it is. That is, even things that may be the responsibility of the Building Infrastructure Company, which has replaced the OSK and the Ministry. They have the will to implement things. I shall submit the documents so that they can be found in the Minutes of the House so that we do not come back later to say that we did not know or have nothing to do with them. I believe that something needs to be changed in this way of communicating with the Ministry with regional services and regional services with local society. There was no contact between the directors of either the region or the county with the municipality and the local authorities. There wasn't. There wasn't even the headmasters of primary schools, otherwise the results would be different. And in the middle the time given in other cases was cut. So the complaints and protests of people are well founded, and I think you should take them into account, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u8	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u9	Mr Pinheiro, a brief comment because we must not remain a grey zone at the moment. Not only is there no reproach, but on the contrary, I have to tell you that there were indeed misunderstandings, discussions with the mayor, a lively concern from all over the local community. It is also clear and expected that there will be, because I have told you from the outset that it is something that any region in Greece would want by promoting, as we have said, the musical education of children and culture and other children's skills and skills. So, for local government, the projects were done the way they were. I'm talking about the Ministry of Education. Let me also make a second comment. You spoke about other areas, which the artistic school may eventually have worked - it was in the same decision I signed - having proved support for these schools, wherever they were given an opportunity to operate. Did they tell you how many kids they went to the records? Some forty-eight children, if we're talking about the same artistic thing, because in the other artistic one - and I wanted to collect the statistics - forty children went and elsewhere they went forty-eight. So, here, if an address or director could have made a suggestion or an update to a local radio, we keep it, if you want, and it is a very good practice for next year. If now, however, there was information for fifty children, which means that the local society and the then director of education had come into first contact with the local society and the families, he had asked, he had gathered interest and finally came six, you understand, Mr.Police, that there is a very large dimension between one and the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u10	There were seven children and they became nineteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u11	In any case, I think, with very specific actions, which, if anything else today, were quoted by the Ministry in view of the Greek Parliament, we have shown that we also wanted the school to function and at the same time gave the tools through the committee, which would examine the children and we also give the following commitment, which I mentioned to me is very important to repeat. We will be next to the local society, with all the means of communication that we can have for this particular upcoming event, and hopefully next year indeed to collect, to concentrate on the interest that such a school should have in this area, which has a lot to give us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too, Madame Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Ministers for Health, Economic, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Interior and Infrastructure and Transport have tabled a draft law on 4-10-2019: 'Recommendation of a National Public Health Agency', Regulations on tobacco products and other issues of the Ministry of Health'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to try to keep the speaking time, at least in the development of the question, and if it is to be exceeded, let it be done in your second language. It will now be discussed, the third with number 57/1-10-2019, a top-level question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “The new engineering school of the University of Peloponnese, based in Patras”. The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Dygalakis, will answer. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. With this issue we are addressing one of the aftermath of the deregulation of the Gavroglou Law and we are talking specifically about the former School of Technology Applications of the University of Western Greece, based in Patras, which, after the deregulation of Gavroglou, became a School of Engineering of the University of Peloponnese, based in Tripoli, because the University of Patras did not want this school to be incorporated. This supremacy of TEIs in HEIs, as was done by the Gavroglou Law, instead of dealing with the issues, we have the teachers who teach this year to be less than last year, because it is precisely because university scholars have not been hired. Secondly, laboratory hours have been reduced, i.e. downgrading the work provided. Laboratories have insufficient and outdated equipment, while there are still schools where there are no basic classes of laboratories, such as engineers - engineers. There is also the question of housing. Already with circular, the University of Peloponnese puts a plaque for those who can go to housing, that is, at the home, one third of the course. They are, however, other kinds of issues to which they cannot respond. The chord of the case is that students at this school will attend courses on the basis of the new programme, while they will be examined on the basis of the old curriculum and it is not established whether the school will be four years or five years old and what rights the new entrants will have, but also those who will end the School of Engineering at the University of Peloponnese. So, while the school should have started, there was an extension for two weeks, so that some of these gaps could have been filled. In this respect, therefore, the questions raised, Mr Minister, are very specific: How will the serious, enormous shortages in teaching and laboratory staff be covered in the logistics infrastructure available in laboratories? And what, anyway, is the future of this school? Will she be four years old? Will he be five years old? What rights will these students have to know how they're going? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Karathanasopoulos, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to inform the citizens once again about our actions in the sensitive area of higher education. Before moving on to your questions, I would like to remind you that we were totally opposed to the way in which the previous government and the previous Minister of Education changed the academic map of higher education. It became hasty, without any involvement of the Independent Authority of the IPTO, even a few 24 hours before the elections were created. The aim was to use micropolicy and try to encapsulate the government but, unfortunately, what has happened has in many cases been to encapsulate young people and their families. So what we are trying to do is to decapitate higher education and the academic community from the bad practices followed by the previous government. We are doing so by trying and immediately to correct problems that have been created, but in the long term we are preparing a new legislative framework through an exhaustive dialogue with the academic community, which we have started with all the stakeholders. I would first like to make a brief reference to global and institutional interventions. We will upgrade the institutions, such as the IPO, the Independent Assessment and Quality Assurance Authority in Higher Education. We will proceed to strategic planning based on procedures that will take into account the results of the evaluation. Only in this way can a long and sustainable policy be achieved in higher education, which so much needs it. Since I have been serving twenty-five years at the university, let me take the following negative example: Universities over time submit their proposals, suggestions on the number of importers, which the leaders of the Ministry of Education do not listen to. We as a new leadership have clearly stated that we will take into account the identification of the number of participants that will give us each university, every department, every school. An end must be made to the micro-political management of higher education, where without such resources being provided, there has been a continuous increase in the number of importers. Institutions know better than anyone which number of students can train and through strategic planning we can secure a professional perspective for graduates of universities. I will now come to the special questions you ask about the Peloponnese University. As far as funding is concerned, infrastructures have been attempting at the Ministry since the first few weeks to find extra resources. We have proceeded and announced a recent exceptional grant for the universities of 12.5m euros, of which the University of Peloponnese will get about 800,000 euros. At the same time we wanted to make a mapping of the malfunctions and problems of the universities and especially those of the former TEI mergers. So I sent a letter to the competent authorities in August to see what problems each has. All universities can tell you that they have responded and provided us with detailed information on the issues which concern them and which have arisen from mergers. Now, with regard to the issues of non-qualified logistics and laboratory infrastructure, I would like to invoke the document of the dean of the University of Peloponnese, who does not confirm what is quite dramatically mentioned. Obviously there are changes to the curriculum - transition from TEI to university departments - in order to meet the needs of parallel operation and university departments, but also to the departments of the former TEIs and I do not see that there are issues of modernisation as well. As far as teaching staff are concerned, I would like to tell you that a total of five hundred members of the LAG - teachers - have already been allocated to universities, of which twenty-six seats have been taken by the University of Peloponnese. Twenty-seven teachers have been given at the University of Peloponnese under the a.d. 407/1980. In addition, the process of recruiting a significant number of temporary training staff is being approved. Finally, there are also places offered to obtain teaching experience from doctoral holders and will be given respectively to the University of Peloponnese and the School of Engineering sixteen posts from this category. As far as the translations are concerned, I would like to say two things. Both at the University of Peloponnese and all the universities in which schools of the former TEI were integrated, according to the laws and counter-reformation of Mr. Gavroglou, no translations of those beyond the second year are permitted. For the first-years, to whom you have also referred, and in the engineering schools, you will be aware that in all the aspects of the previous political leadership, it has been decided that the three sections of the school have no match. So there can be no relocations to other university departments. On the question of the duration of the first course of studies, which is particularly critical - and you rightly mentioned it - and concerns new entrant students, the call of the Senate and the indicative curriculum of the Department of Engineering of the University of Peloponnese has come to the Ministry. These are three sections, they are being processed by the services and I can tell you that they will end up with the corresponding sections of the other universities and they will also be five years old. If I don't take any more time, I'm going to keep business rights and housing issues for my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your second-guess for a third minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, you have, Mr Secretary, been placed in the 'Gavroglou counter-reform'. But the state has been constantly and, of course, this reform is now yours. You need to implement this policy. There is no difference in substance, apart from individual differences that you may have, because you want universities - public limited companies, which are subordinated to the intellectual potential, but also with shortcomings in the appropriate laboratories, study programmes that are adapted to the needs of the market, namely the needs of business groups and not of the scientific object, with downgrading of diplomas under the Bologna Treaty and the policy of the European Union, with many speeds, without professional rights, which are disconnected with professional rights and, of course, huge deficiencies in student care, as well as the implementation of a gradual privatisation policy. You said, of course, that all this was done handsomely. But they keep going. Those who pay it on the substance - you mentioned it yourself - are the students themselves and especially the new entrants who, in fact, do not know where they are. So whatever measures you've taken are late, Minister. You have rushed to abolish asylum because this will upgrade universities and schools, become 'European-type' universities. But there are huge problems: "The gaps will be filled, while the period has normally begun with teaching and laboratory staff, "these will be dealt with" with workshops, which are really very serious. The dean of the University of Peloponnese cannot look up the situation with regard to laboratories and those that exist - old technology, let's say that - and the missing ones. With the 800,000 that you gave the University of Peloponnese from the extra grant, there are not even the few holes that exist. The data are very important and will affect the life of the students themselves, who have done so much hard work and sacrifices, their families have killed, many other towns that have come to Patras to attend this school and find huge shortcomings in teachers, workshops and are forced to spend huge sums of money, because there are neither any homes nor student care, are privatized. In this direction, therefore, are the major anguishs they have and the Ministry cannot enjoy the situation on the basis of what the dean of the University of Peloponnese, and neither will the logic of'stagonally resolve the problems', it can continue in this way. It takes immediate action to get these things done and should have already been done, Mr Secretary, and these huge gaps had been covered. However, the logic of multiple speeds in schools, degrees and rights has led to this result. It is precisely because the policy you accept as a government is that the degree cannot automatically grant professional rights, but these must be certified by successive examinations, re-examinations, the so-called Lifelong Learning, which lead to just the graduates and do not have professional rights and they must be practically consumable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u19	I shall begin with the issue of housing, student care. I was well placed during the reply to Mr Delis's current question. I will simply find the opportunity to stress again that with the current leadership of the Ministry of Education, public funding for universities and students and care will not be reduced. But the accommodation needs of the students, as I said in the question, are increased and we recognize it. The percentage of students housed in student homes is very small in Greece, and that is why we said that by means of public-private partnerships - so that there are no misinterpretations we are talking about social infrastructure projects with availability clauses - we will meet the needs. Already this month, in Heraklion and Rethymnon, a very large student home of the University of Crete is being hosted by a total of three thousand beds. You have also raised a number of other issues. To say about professional rights, for which I have not answered my prototype, that the Departments of TEs of Engineering, Electrical and Information Technology have specific professional rights, for which there is a number of presidential decrees relating to them. Now for departments that do not have them, but because this is also a more general issue for the graduates of the former TEIs, the legislation provides for the adoption of presidential decrees and joint ministerial decisions, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Development and Education, and these procedures will proceed. I do not want to talk about asylum. We basically restored academic freedom and freedom of movement for universities. Finally, with regard to laboratories and shortcomings, what the dean sent out, in reply to the document I sent in August, is that the engineering school programmes will have full coverage of laboratory exercises, as they had before the merger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u20	And we, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, due to the inhibition of Minister, Mr. Dendia, there will be no debate on the first question under number 44/24/09-2019 of the first cycle of MP B1' North sector of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgiou Katrugalou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: 'Do not lose, because of inertia and bilingualism, the promotion of the national interests of the Prespecies Agreement' and also on the first question under number 55/1-10-2019 on the second question by Mr. Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nicholas Igoumenidis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: 'Actions by the Greek side following the financial communication on German compensation'. The fourth question, with number 50/1-10-2019, will be discussed first cycle of MP B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis, with the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Location and reintroduction to key positions of two executives in the Ministry of Culture and Sport". The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Lina Mendoni. Mr Colleagues, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, since I thank you very much for your willingness to be here today and to answer my topical question, I would just like to say that I will just remind you briefly of something, since I am sure we both know very well what this is about and what exactly we are talking about. The first part of the question concerns the reintroduction of Mrs Stamatoudi to the forefront, the position of the chairman of the new legislative committee dealing with, among other things, intellectual and related rights, as well as their management in the new digital market. As you know, Mrs Stamatoudis had been forced to resign from the position of Director of the Intellectual Property Organisation (OPI), since the members of the Board of Directors of the Agency had recommended her expulsion after the revelations of the newspaper "NATIONAL NATIONALS" that during her term of office she had accepted a donation of EUR 120,000 from the "sinner" GDPI of the Xanthopopoulou family, which she had been invited to control. As I have a founding member of GDPI and, of course, I work with the initiative of creators and heirs "MAMA 450+", I should ask you directly whether we have the wolf to keep the sheep, whether Mrs Stamatoudi is the most inappropriate man in the whole of Greece for the position in which you placed it and, even if the election announcements of the Prime Minister that the EEAS will continue unrestrictedly until it is finally converted into EDMs, it was only promises. The second part of the question relates to the reappearance of Mr Giannis Tsakoniakos to a newly established committee of the Ministry of Culture to monitor the safety of buildings. In view of the fact that Mr Tsakoniakos has spent sixteen consecutive years President of the Board of Directors also extremely sinful Solidarity Fund and the fact that the public prosecutor's investigation, which concerns him, is still under way, I would like to ask you on what grounds you have decided to place him in this position and, indeed, before the decision on innocence or guilt comes out. Finally, Minister, in your opinion, the misconduct and charges with which these officers are charged are not of any importance to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, thank you very much for your question, because that is how you give me the opportunity to clarify some things. Mrs Ireni Stamatoudi was indeed chosen and appointed as chairman of the Legislative Committee on Copyright in her scientific capacity. It is known that he is a well-known legal person. She is a teacher at the University of Nicosia and specializes in the Law of Intellectual Property. As it emerges from the establishment of the Legislative Committee, apart from Mrs Stamatoudi, it is Mr Kostantinos Christodoulou, a professor at the National Kapodistrian University specialising in copyright, Ms Maria Papadopoulou, who is legal, head of the Intellectual Property Coordination Department and Ms Maria Sinainidou, who is also a legal scientific partner in the same part of the Intellectual Property Organisation. I assume you have the decision to form. In any case, I submit it to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So Mrs Stamatoudis has not taken any responsibility for any institution of the Ministry. It was chosen in its scientific capacity to chair a legislator, i.e. an advisory committee, because of its scientific training and its multiannual experience in legislative works related to the Law of Intellectual Property. So chairing this committee does not mean that it has become responsible and has regained some body of the Ministry. You know - you referred to this, after all - that Mrs Stamatoudi has been the director of the EEA for more than eleven years. Her term was renewed to the previous government of SYRIZA, which resigned in October 2018. Mrs Stamatoudis herself has published the reasons for her resignation. And when I say that she has made it public, I mean that her decision to resign with the documentation has also been published on the daily press at that time. Now, you refer to a daily newspaper published by the "Nation" specifically on the basis of which Mrs Stamatoudi as director of the EEAY received the sum of EUR 120,000 as a donation of GNI to the Intellectual Property Organisation. First of all, I would like to say to you - and this is evidenced by a number of documents and actions - that it was Mrs Stamatoudis who participated in revealing the GDPI scandal. Also, according to a relatively recent publication of the same newspaper, the "Nation", of 22-9-2019, in an extrajudicial court filed by Ms. Stamatoudis, it refers to the existence of a judicial decision, namely, in Decision 491/2018 of the Tribunal of the Tribunal of Athens, where, according to the court, the amount received in 2018 by the OPI was not a donation, but a repayment of the debt from GNI to OPI. In commenting on the extrajudicial, the newspaper itself admitted that he did not know the court ruling. In order to reverse your concern, as far as the EEAS continues to function unnecessarily, I tell you that, as we have announced in the government's programme statements, we will fully support the collective aim of the Greek artists. Our aim is for the creators to acquire their own permanent, independent, economically viable and unarmed by the State body for collective management of their rights. That's their will. This also requires European law. To pass, briefly, Mr Tsakoniakos, I tell you that the Panhellenic Federation of Workers at the first meeting with the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture, referred to inappropriate working conditions in various buildings in which the services of the Ministry are housed. We have been asked for a working group to be set up to check the working conditions of employees and the status of premises, with the aim of achieving maximum safety for workers. This committee was set up on 19 September in my decision. It is three-member, consists of the responsible Director of Studies and Works of Museums and Cultural Buildings, the Director of the Regional Agency of the Ministry of Culture, a doctorate of archaeologists, and Mr. Tsakoniakos. How did Mr. Tsakiakos come up? There was a request from the federation in this working party to be represented by the employees. In a document, the federation - which, in fact, is contained in a document bearing in mind the decision to set up the committee - was elected by the President of the General Council of the Federation, who is Mr Yiannis Tsakoniakos. So what I did is include the trade union representative in the decision. Mr Colleagues, my standing position is to operate under formal law, respecting the distinct roles of participants in the institutional affairs. I respect the demands of the elected representatives of the workers, I apply faithfully the decisions notified to me by the respective judicial authorities. But neither on the basis of publications nor the criterion and the presumption of innocence are we ignorant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u24	My colleague, you have three minutes to answer the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, since, first of all, I was very pleased to hear you say with your own mouth that the ETUC will go ahead and may be able to become ETUC after all, as we all want, I would like to say to you that I have had no direct doubt at the outset about both Mrs Stamatoudis' scientific adequacy and her talent in the work she is doing. My problem was from the outset that it was found - at least according to the Greek journalists of the "Nation" - to have taken EUR 120,000 from an institution that was called to control, from the same body that you are once again President. Most of all, however, I am impressed by what I am learning from your mouth - I have not known it, from your lips, for the first time - that Mrs Stamatoudis acted like a postman. So, he took that money to give it up? It seems to me rather institutionally strange to distribute this money. I'm holding back, maybe I'm wrong. But first of all, I have to say it seems a little strange to me. I imagine there would be a way more transparent for these 120,000 euros to be transferred, as they were finally going to the OPI. With regard to Mr Yiannis Tsaponiakos, I would like to ask you - perhaps a little heavy - to say 'do not hide in a way...', in an introduction, I say '...behind the trade unions'. The final responsibility, Minister, with all due respect for me - and it really is not what I am saying, I have respect for you personally and for your office, the institution you represent - is personal responsibility for the person who has signed it, so that a person under judicial investigation can take up a position of responsibility again. If he is the President or whatever he is, he is an institutional responsibility. Incidentally, I would like to remind you that Mr Tsakoniakos, among other things, is a worker, while your Ministry has engineers, who would certainly be more efficient and certainly more competent than Mr Tsakiakos. I therefore listen with caution to you - and I understand that you are right - that it is good to listen to the trade unions, even though the trade union movement - I have to say this, too, from this point of view - is extremely burdensome in our country. There is the famous institution of the ‘working fathers’. You know it, and so do I. However, I understand that we have to trust some of the trade unionists and have to play a role in the practicing of our place. Nevertheless, the ultimate responsibility lies with the man who signs it. If it's indeed your Minister, it's yours, Minister. Right now, let's set someone else up until the court investigation for this particular man expires. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u26	So do we. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u27	Mr Papoutsis, it may not have been quite clear what I said to you. As far as Mrs Stamatoudis is concerned, the decision of the Athens Trimel Court of Appeal 491/2018 clearly states that GDPI, with the sum of EUR 120,000, paid to the Intellectual Property Organisation the debts of 2006 and 2007. Therefore the original publication of the 'Nation', on which you supported your timely question, proves to be incomplete by the fact that the newspaper itself - I put it in the Minutes - acknowledges that he did not know the court ruling he considered the EUR 120,000 repayment of debts and not a donation. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is neither a 'passenger' nor a 'postman'. Mrs Stamatoudis as Director of the OPI, in accordance with the specific decision of the court, which I assume you respect as I respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u28	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u29	... she did not receive a donation, but a debt, i.e. she did her duty. It's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u30	But are the managers used to transfer the money from one body to another?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u31	They don't transfer from one organism to another. The GDPI owed money to the Intellectual Property Organisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u32	Why was Mrs. Stamatoudakis involved? I ask you, why didn't the GDPI do it with...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u33	Colleague, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u34	Mr Colleagues, you can see the procedure as laid down by the laws and I think you will better understand what I'm saying. As far as Mr Tsaponiako is concerned, I am not used to hiding behind anyone. What I have to say, and what I have to say straight away, and I recognize my responsibilities. In this case, however, there is no responsibility, for a very simple reason: the appointment of a representative of the trade union movement was requested and the one who laid down the trade union movement itself, who may be accused, like many others, of a number of issues - I would be the last to ask that the real role should not be revealed - but the presumption of innocence for this movement, as for all the others involved in it, which we will see is still in place. The presumption of innocence is explicitly and constitutionally protected by both our law and Union and international law. So the fact is that the trade union movement has proposed someone who is not guilty, but we will not call him guilty, I will not say him guilty. One of the prisoners. Secondly, the Ministry obviously has engineers, which is why I told you that the competent engineer of technical services was placed on the committee. An archaeologist, multi-experienced, director of antiquities, or regional agency of the Ministry of Management Level, was also placed. The third, who is a trade union worker, is the trade union representative. The workers also know very well the vultures of the cultural buildings, from their own point of view. It does not mean that a worker cannot help improving working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u35	And we, Minister. We move on, with the second question number 56/1-10-2019 on the second question of the Athens Radical Left Coalition, Christoforos Vernardakis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on 'Intellectual rights - licensing of a new collective management organisation 'Union of Rightholders'. The Minister for Culture, Mrs Mendoni, will answer. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I too should like to thank you for your presence today. I think that the previous question by my colleague, too, is one of my own. Thanks to a historic - in a way - route to remind us that in May 2018 the license of famous GDPI is being withdrawn. In passing, we have seven felonies right now in investigation and an economic hole of about 100m euros, which has been deprived of by Greek creators over time. The government of SYRIZA is proud because it managed to manage a major crisis in the area of copyright and clearing the case of GNI, as well as contributing to the creation of the Special Service of Extraordinary Management, so that it would not leave a gap in the area of copyright, the rights of the authors, the property of the old company of GGI, and especially in the archive of Greek music and Greek creators, which is a huge and economic given, but also a cultural given given. The special service, however, has a temporary character: the rules - on the basis of which it was set up - had to be temporary until the creation of the new collective management organisation, not more than two years ago. We also managed to achieve the new collective management organisation, the Association of Rightful Works of Music, the EMCDDA, very quickly, in the first half of the year, eight months after the withdrawal of the GNI licence. Today we are in the following: The new organisation has been approved by the court in July 2019, has received a positive recommendation from the Intellectual Property Organisation, which has recommended to you and meanwhile we have two additional elements that have come to be added. The first element is that for the first time almost all Greek creators were integrated into this policy and this new collective management organisation. We knew very well that there was a passionateness of discrimination, divisions, minor divisions in the field of Greek creators. The new special service, as a universal successor to the GDPI and as the premier of the new collective management organisation, managed to unify this whole area. So we have a very specific conquest. The second question is that thankfully in this process and the Government of the New Democracy, both with the programme statements and with the famous meeting - then - of today's Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, with the creators, committed to this continuity of this policy. Then all the creators pointed out to him that it is a conquest of what happened in the field of copyright and we should in no way have a setback. The question therefore has two parts: When does the ministerial decision on the authorisation of the new collective management organisation, the Association of Rightful Music Works, SAR? Secondly, when is it planned to transfer the powers of the special agency - which was a temporary agency - to the new collective management organisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u37	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much for your question. I would like to tell you in advance that there is no chance that the current Prime Minister's election commitment regarding the collective management organisation will not be followed. The Music Creators' Association submitted on 25 July its application to the IPO, to the Intellectual Property Organisation, and requested authorisation as a collective management organisation for intellectual property rights. The Intellectual Property Organisation, as the statutory competent body, examined the application of the EMRP and concluded on 8 August 2019, on the grounds that the EMRP fulfils the conditions set out in Article 4 of Law 4481/2017 and recommended positive authorisation as a collective management organisation. It should be noted that in the same reasoned report of the Board of Directors of the Intellectual Property Organisation, invoking the same law, Law No.4481 and the explanatory statement, the Board of Directors of the Intellectual Property Organisation or the Ministry of Culture may request the presentation of other information, such as an operational plan or other relevant studies. If you wish, the Agency's report will be submitted to the Minutes. I'm taking a second date. On 24-9-2019, a request for the annulment of the collective management organisation under the name "automally managed" against the Ministerial Decision was discussed before Section IV of the Council of State, which entrusted the management of the copyright of authors to the EEAS. According to the Office of Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Culture, the two anticipated administrative acts - that is, the Ministerial Decision and the Joint Ministerial Decision - are directly linked to the subject-matter of the trial and therefore any action taken to adopt them should be a follow-up to the trial. Anything, that is, before 24 September, would not be lawful. In order to complete the SEDEN dossier and on the basis of the existing recommendation of the Board of Directors of the IPO referred to above, we have asked the OPI to send financial information, which will result from either an operational plan or a sustainability study of the organisation, i.e. the SEDEN. The above financial information is crucial for proving the financial self-sufficiency and viability of the applicant organisation, in order to ensure the same Greek creators as well as for the adoption of the necessary administrative instrument granting authorisation to the EMRP. Once the file has been completed and the necessary elements of economic viability are presented, they will be followed - to be sure - by legal procedures. Having taken the relevant authorisation decision of the NCA under the conditions set out above, together with the Ministry of Finance will carry out all those procedures necessary to assess the value of the assets of the EEAS, the conditions and conditions for the transfer of the management of the copyright of the authors' contracts, the total property of the transferred items after their valuation and the method of payment of any balances arising from the successor to the IPO. Since all the necessary conditions are met, the acts will continue regardless of the pending court, which does not constitute an obstacle to the adoption of the two ministerial decisions, the ministerial decision of the Ministry of Culture and the joint ministerial decision. I really want to assure you that our aim is not simply to issue one or two administrative acts and to give an authorisation to operate on the new collective management of the rights of Greek creators. Our aim is to ensure that the creators ensure the sustainability of their organisation and their assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u39	We too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u40	First of all, thank you for the answer. I therefore consider that we shall proceed on the path that we have worked on and which you have worked on. It doesn't matter. It's not a matter of ownership. It's a matter of normalising opposition. But I would like to point out to you this: First of all, you quite rightly said that an unsolicited court should not be held to suspend this policy. It must not be done because you know very well that there are often legal issues or references to justice, just to serve either interests of postponement or interests of other bodies and so on. Because you raised the question of 'auto-management', first of all - I think that the law does not rule out anyone who needs and obeys the terms of legality - should be, building a collective management organisation obviously under the supervision of the IPO. So I have the feeling that, when this reference had been made, in any case, the objection to the decision, then the minister, involved - if you want - an element of treason. In any case, since you too can assure us that this policy will not be suspended, it is not so important to discuss it. But now, I think we should have good faith to see this: First - first of all, it is right to ask for a sustainability study, and it is right to ask for the financial information, provided that this policy is not a pretext. I would tell you that if you want to ask for sustainability studies and economic data, I think you should do so for all collective management organisations. Here we have a history, which has also come to light in the well-known case of GNI: Seventeen collective management licensings have never been checked, they have never been supervised on the basis of their financial data, resulting in many such data, including the 'auto-management', which today attempts to question the role of the special agency, but it has, of course, sinful assumptions, it has reports of accountants that are negative and so on. The second point I want to make to you - of course by keeping your positive policy - is this: Do not forget that the new collective management organisation, the EMS, will be the universal successor to the special service - which was, in turn, the universal successor to the old GDPI - both in terms of obligations and rights and in terms of immovable property and in terms of authors' archives and so on. It is therefore very easy for the Ministry and the OPI, of course, to make a positive suggestion on economic data, as we already have evidence today of what the assessment of copyright is, how the special service worked, what it received, what agreements it has made with the large foreign agencies with users and so on. You have, in other words, a lot of data to convince yourself that this is the road that must be followed. Nevertheless, if it is not a pretext - and I think it is not a pretext to invoke and further economic elements - I think we will agree that the road is open, so that we can now normalise this whole huge issue of copyright in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u41	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u42	Mr Papoutsis, you also know very well that anyone's judicial appeal is his right. Now the reason why the 'auto-management' of the Council of State has resorted is not something that makes sense to discuss or to deal with us more. The sure thing is that we had to wait on September 24th for the trial to take place in the Second Division of the Council of State. From there on, the decision of the Council of State may be delayed several months - an indefinite period, I would say - and, on the other hand, there are certain deadlines which are set by the institutional framework. That is why I said that this case-law now - that is to say, we were committed before 24 September - will not be the cause, either pretext or material, of the delay. Of course, in any case, judicial review produces legal certainty. And that I think you know as well as I do, not to say better. Therefore, for the publication of the CYPD, one could consider that being a clear landscape on either side, that would be desirable. On the other hand, what we have asked for - it is what you have also referred to and rightly demanded - is additional elements. In the reasoned report by the Intellectual Property Organisation, what was produced was more opinions and not financial data. I believe that, in order to guarantee the true viability of the new body, it is good for the competent body, which is the Intellectual Property Organisation, to provide the Ministry of Culture with the financial information that substantiates the sustainability or an operational plan, a business plan, which really can be convinced that the new collective management organisation can, in fact, be viable and at no time need for support from the State. Because at the end of the day the authors themselves want - and I think that you and we want - to regulate and manage the house without state intervention. If you want, this regime that existed, it was what created, or say it supported, everything that happened with GDP. It is good to avoid these things and creators, artists being completely self-managed, by their own procedures. I think that in this, beyond us, it is the same Union law that imposes us on us in some way how we move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-07-S1-commons.u44	With the consent of this House at 19.12' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 8 October 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
