ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question report to the House on Thursday 19 December 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 326/16-12-2019 topical question by MP V' West Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Financial aid for flooding in Kineta with care and for secondary residences". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 320/10-12-2019 by MP Larissa of the Change Movement Mr. Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Real delays in the awarding of pensions to the Regional Shop of Efka Thessaly (formerly OGA)". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 327/16-12-2019 topical question by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "ELGA and private insurance". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 328/17-12-2019 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Obligation on the State to support children with disabilities". 3. The question by number 329/17-12-2019 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Conversion of the unemployment benefit and of the Social Income of Solidarity, of the CRL (for those who can work) to a job." 4. The Question No 330/17-12-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Obligation on the State to support children with disabilities". 5. The Question No 331/17-12-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "To compensate the affected oil producers from the heavy quarantine in Heraklion." 6. The Question No 332/17-12-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Let the implementation procedures of the Plan of Spatial and Settlement of the Open City (SOCOP) of the Municipality of Minos Pedias finally begin. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1885-13-11-2019 question by the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in payment to beneficiaries of financial support that replaces the loss of the EKT". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Resolution of the State Budget for the financial year 2020’. Today is the last day to discuss and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance. If the party leaders are able to start their speeches at around 16: 00, there is a chance that we will not have to arrive at 12 o'clock at midnight for the vote. This means that we must be close enough to the time available for speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two teachers attendants from the 15th Kalithea Municipal School. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The first speaker today is Mr Manolakos from New Democracy for seven minutes. Here, Mr Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the annual debate on the budget, in addition to presenting the budget management for next year, is a first-class opportunity to assess the progress of each government, to see the successes, but to see its mistakes and omissions. The drafting of a budget is not an easy process and that is why it must move between the development dimension and social protection, but taking into account the budgetary limits. Anyone who claims to have found that magical recipe that will succeed and overthrow all the negatives of the economy, without any serious impact on any social group, is lying. None of us here claims that we have solved all the problems, that we are not to blame for anything and that everything is well burned. You've done these, gentlemen of Officerial Response, with your selective memory in the last four and a half years of your government. I hear all these days talking about bleeding and unequal anti-linguistic budgets and I really wonder: Do you people who in your days had targeted as much as any of them? Are you saying that you had chosen an unprecedented overtax scheme which had not only previously cancelled any prospect of growth, but also enclaved and condemned the financially weak in poverty and high rates of unemployment? Let me remind you that in the first half of 2015, the Greeks paid it very expensive, with EUR 12.5 billion extra taxes, with the abolition of CSR, a reduction in pensions, wages, cuts in benefits. Where should I start and where should I finish? May I remind you of the bloody superplexes? Do you remember how these came about? With constant tax raids, ladies and gentlemen. You have constantly increased the taxes that the citizens were called upon to pay, and then you were allegedly granting social benefits, allowances from the very money that the citizens were deprived of and coming from their own pockets. We on the other hand admitted our mistakes. We did not feed any more, and we are applying other things. Within less than six months of governance we voted thirty two bills and a new constitution. At the heart of our policy has been the man, the citizen and the defence of his rights, and we have proved it in practice by direct action. We have spoken in electoral terms about the right to education and already with the restoration of university asylum, we have attributed the universities to those who really belong. We have put the bar on security issues high, declaring that for us citizens' security is above all. Areas that for decades were considered unbaptised of lawlessness and criminal acts, such as Exarchia, to be attributed back to their inhabitants. We talked about the third-age right with a decent pension, and that is what happens. We have already reduced the ENPI for all, and we have brought to the vote a draft tax bill that has moved to the counter of the overtaxation and the taxing spirit of the previous government. We have given incentives to entrepreneurship and guaranteed significant benefits to all taxpayers by reducing all rates of taxation. We support new households and create incentives to create a family, by increasing the tax rate for each child, by granting a benefit for each newborn child, but also by reducing VAT on infants. Finally, we are aiming at increasing full employment and indeed with demands, reducing insurance contributions, while creating conditions for restoring the building activity by suspending VAT on new buildings for three years. Anyone who knows how to read a budget will understand that we have made the best use of the funds and have reduced any unnecessary waste for all the ministries. Ladies and gentlemen, a single ministry seems to me to think that whatever money can be made available to him at this time, they will never be viewed as waste, because the defence and security of the country is above all. I am referring in particular to the Ministry of National Defence, which in the years of the ten-year crisis, the Armed Forces and their staff, their budget, have suffered cuts more than they should. But, in their honor, they managed to keep themselves at a remarkable operational level with daily struggle and personal sacrifices. I would remind you that the Armed Forces of each country are the last hope and refuge to which we will turn when the difficult ones come. For this reason, even symbolically, Minister, in the face of Turkey's extremely growing provocation, I would expect a more brave increase in the available funds for the further strengthening of the Armed Forces. Because only those will stand alongside us to guarantee security, our national sovereignty, but also our sovereign rights with a great deal of courage and self-determination. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am sure that this government will find the way, because it is in the mood, to further strengthen it. In conclusion, I would like to say to all Greeks that today we are turning a page and sending a clear message to the markets: Greece is back on its feet with a new government that implements a new economic policy, with the ambition of setting the foundations for a new era for the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget we have before us today has achieved something unique, in my view. He manages to be optimistic, hopeful, but without leaving the limits of realism. This budget has been owed to the Greeks since 2015. It goes without saying that I will vote for him and call on all of you to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Manolak. The next speaker is Mr Pascalides from New Democracy, followed by Mr Haritou from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Paschalides, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with this budget it is true that the bed of growth and investment is being high. However, our firm conviction is that the objectives will be achieved by a series of measures including a reduction in overtaxation, strengthening investments and the public's available income, while supporting vulnerable social groups. The government's aim is to restore prosperity, which will be achieved by combining alleviations and improving the investment climate, which will, moreover, have the effect of creating new jobs. It is a social and development budget, with economic planning and political vision, in order to address the low productivity of labour in Greece, as well as the ageing population, with the ultimate aim of maintaining people with high levels of skills and skills in the country. With the main priority of the budgetary strategy for 2020 to increase growth rates, this budget is geared to the full utilization of the Public Investment Programme. The Public Investment Programme is the most important measure in the country's development policy. With regard to this bill, therefore, the Public Investment Programme will reach EUR 6,750 billion and will be directed towards implementing a wide range of actions that enhance public health and education infrastructures, transport and communications, energy and the environment, modernise public services and prioritise the digital transformation of public administration, while supporting the necessary structures of social cohesion and solidarity. Regarding the primary surplus of the general government for 2020, it amounts to 3.56% of GDP and will be achieved in a year when the economy will run at a rate of 2.8%. The State budget's cash requirements for 2020 will amount to just EUR 4.498 billion, while the state budget net lending will be EUR 1,866 billion. As far as the basic measures for achieving the budgetary objectives are concerned, the adjustment of objective values on the basis of real values has been a priority, which will help increase the collection of property in specific areas of the country where the level of objective values is now considerably lower than the commercial value. In addition, checks on short-term rental platforms will be strengthened. This budget also provides for an overview of expenditure and revenue with a view to the services provided by general government bodies to be more efficient for citizens. In particular, the cost and revenue overview covers more than twenty specific actions concerning sectors such as energy savings, electronic document handling, the use of public buildings and others. In addition, the effectiveness of the OAED programmes's expenditure is improved. Moreover, the main measures to be taken are the fight against tax evasion, the reduction of the parafiscal economy, the widening of the tax base, which is essential to reduce further the burden on citizens who are consistent with their obligations. The strengthening of electronic transactions is proving to be the most effective measure in this direction. To this end, an increased rate of 30% is being introduced in the statement of income tax on expenditure by electronic means of payment. The reference value is the surplus of EUR 1,021 million planned for insurance funds in 2020, in accordance with the social budget improved by EUR 202 million compared with estimates for 2019. The surplus is based on an increase in income from insurance contributions of EUR 593 million, mainly from employees, due to the improvement in the levels of employment and the increase in employers' contributions. At the same time, there is provision for a reduction in pension expenditure of EUR 192 million, based on the assessment that accelerating the issue of pensions will limit the obligation to pay retroactively. In particular, it is estimated that the expenditure on main pensions will be reduced by EUR 121 million, while the corresponding expenditure on subsidiary will be reduced by EUR 71 million. The implementation of the plan for the digitisation of the pension version, as well as the establishment of a white register of enterprises that will reward the employers concerned, is also mentioned. The budget also shows the reduction in the insurance contributions of full-time employees by 0.9 percentage points from 1-7-2020. The measure costs 123m euros, of which 21m euros will be charged with the OAED budget. On the contrary, the EUR 30 million allocation for unemployment benefits is increased, as it is calculated on the basis of an increased minimum wage. Moreover, the budget provides for an increase in employment of 1.8% and a decrease in unemployment from 17.4% this year to 15.6% in 2020, while the increase in average wages is estimated at 1.2%, which is twice as high as in 2019. Note that this budget also provides for a allocation of EUR 2 000, a total of 123 million for 2020. To sum up, I would like to mention that this budget includes all the necessary measures and the individual arrangements that can actually mark the acceleration of the economy, the achievement of the agreed budgetary targets, but also the reduction of Greece's debt and debt needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Easter. Mr. Haritou has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr. Kotsos from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Haritou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I am reading you from the draft report of your budget: "In 2019 is the first year of implementation of economic policy outside adjustment programmes, i.e. outside memoranda". You're talking about it now. May I remind you what today's Prime Minister said in the budget debate last year? 'You are leading us to the fourth memorandum, gentlemen of the Government.' What else does your report mention? ‘Positive financial result of 2018 maintained for three consecutive years’. Obviously, you mean SYRIZA's governments. Let me remind you again, what did the current Prime Minister say last year from this same Step? 'You lead the country to destruction'. Such recognition in our work could not even imagine it. When, of course, you tell the truth and never lie, we expect you to tell us. But what the Greek people understand very well is your unspeakable electoral demagogy and cynicism, in order to rise to power. But the ready ones you found are over. With the budget it is time to see where you're going with it, who you are and who you're supporting. You're saying you've been taxing the business. What business? You mean 2.5% of all of them? Congratulations! What about the others? You're saying you're taxing the Greeks. Who do you mean? Do you mean those with incomes over 100,000 euros, or 1% of the total? Good for you! While the tip of 17 euros is returned in the middle class. May I remind you what the current Prime Minister said last year from this Step, exactly in the same days? "You perform the middle class", while in another year he blamed us for taking her the carbs - and we give her antidotes and crumbs. In other words, the measures of the 2 billion SYRIZA were crumbly and counterproductive to a 50% reduction in the tax advance and the abolition of the solidarity levy on incomes of up to EUR 20,000, which you have lost? There, however, where your joy is not hidden is in the militarizations. Only for treason you didn't blame us for the superstate. Today, in the rapporteur's report you recognize it as a useful tool. And because you feel like the owners of this country, you just got the keys in your hands, you don't hold. You are in a hurry to give up as - as much as - to your few friends as they have left of the public property, such as ELPE, PPC, and you have already given it a private monopoly. And they are waiting in the region and we in Thrace are waiting to build the networks and see natural gas. We are lifting the energy burden of the whole country and we have energy poverty. What else do you do through the budget? What you know to do very well as right. You are setting up your party state to help your own children, while the four thousand young scientists, which we have kept in the country, do not fit in your own budget. They're children of a lower God. The doctors and nurses do not belong to the ESS, nor to the teachers we agreed to hire in the next few years, while you abolished the thirteenth pension, you have cut the social dividend that the weakest expect in finance. You have even cut the benefits of the ultra-retired. The worst thing, however, is that you do not give any prospect of development in this place. Thrace for today's Prime Minister would be the pattern of development for the whole country. To date, nothing has happened. We've got zero on the clay. Thrace in 2020 will celebrate the hundreds of years since its incorporation into the Greek territory. Yesterday, we had a modest manifestation in the presence of the President of the Republic next to the Presidential Guard that upgraded the anniversary. You know, what's the gift you're giving her on this anniversary? You are negotiating with "EL DORADO" to extend the mining of gold to Thrace, as the Prime Minister himself mentioned at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. That's not a gift. That's a disaster. It is productive degradation and abandonment of a region of great geostrategic importance for the country. I therefore appeal from this step to the Prime Minister and invite him to put an end to this hostage in the region. It will be the highest price he could do for the hundred years of our Thrace. The region needs sustainable development, support for healthy entrepreneurship crushed by trade and unfair competition, support for the primary sector and livestock which is destroyed by the great pressure received by processors. It wants support, which is gradually shrinking. I call on you on the Step to immediately compensate the producers who were affected during the summer by extreme quartzing, the tobacco producers who are still awaiting in vain compensation through CSEs. Sustainable development, gentlemen, means support for the Democritus University of Thrace, the establishment and operation of the six new departments, which have unanimously decided on by all the actors in the region. It means upgrading the Nymfaia Frontier Station for the passage of bus and trucks. It means construction of the second unit at the PPC plant in Komotini. But it also means, gentlemen, respect for all the citizens of the region. References, such as this by your former Minister, that Lesvos with the refugee risk becoming a new Rhodope is an indiscriminate attack that is not acceptable to the residents of the region. With your budget, gentlemen, you are turning us back into the past. But society also has a memory and a crisis. Not only will it accept the role of Sisyphus, but it will quickly seek a new progressive and democratic solution. I am voting against the budget that has neither a social nor a development mark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mr. Kotsos has the floor. Then Mr. Peucas will speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, 2019 for our country is the year of transition to a more favourable economic policy. Once our Government has taken over, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, has started to form a new climate, which is based on the direct mobilisation and the reform policy we are implementing, as well as on the confidence that we have started building with the citizens. The year 2020 will be the year of change. It will be the year when our country's position will be changed and it will run away from the European Union's last positions. The long-term period of disinvestment that has characterised Greece in recent years with its corresponding impact on GDP, productivity, unemployment has already begun to be suspended. In the five months of our governance we have achieved the reduction of HPAI, the increase of the heating allowance, and even with a forward payment, the optimisation of the tax settlement framework, the introduction of measures to protect first residence, the launching of the process for the realisation of major investments, the introduction of tax relief measures. We have done all this without disrupting the country's budgetary discipline and in practice demonstrate that our commitments have been made. The change that we have brought is reflected in fact, such as the positive fourth report by the enhanced surveillance of the European Union, the most positive of the four reports that have been drawn up so far. We also mention the successful issue of bonds and interest rates, when a month ago, ten-year bonds were issued at a rate of only 1.5%, while in March 2019 they were issued at an interest rate of 3.9%. If this is not proof of the confidence that has now existed in the New Democracy Government, but also an improvement in economic indicators, then what else is it? We have the low interest rates - in fact, today we have borrowed at a negative interest rate - the low spreads that have retreated and are even lower than those of Italy, and we also have the end of the capital controls and the Eurogroup's decision to return to our country EUR 700 million from the profits of Greek bonds, without terms and conditions, which the country had claimed for years. According to a survey of the economic situation prepared by IOBE, the economic climate index reached 107 units in November, with an upward trend, mainly from improvements in the services sector and consumer confidence. The economic climate index has been at the highest level since 2008, while the consumer confidence index has been at the highest level in the last nineteen years. All of this at a time when expectations for the rest of Europe are on average falling. Our objectives are realistic, and that is why they are being implemented and attributed. We know the situation in our country, the threats of the external environment, the general instability in Europe. That is why it is essential to maintain the attitude we have shown so far, namely work with results, without celebrations, without triumphs. Our government's first budget is in line with our ideology, with the liberal ideas that we also pledge, and our programme commitments, which we announced before we take over the country's governance. Our aim is to restore optimism to the citizens and to ensure stability between economic efficiency and social justice. The 2020 budget has budgetary measures that, at the same time, support the citizens' available income, strengthen entrepreneurship and investment, reduce the paralysed economy for the benefit of the official sector of the economy and thus productivity. The 2020 budget is going to cover the development and investment gap that our country has had so far. Let me mention, for example, that in the period 2016-2018, we have had a huge increase in surpluses, which is translated into a loss of EUR 11.4 billion from the real economy. With multiple reforms, we attract new investments, which stimulate the great leap we need, the "alma faster than wear", as our poet, Odysseus Elytes, says. In particular, some of our measures are: Reshaping the income tax on natural persons. The drastic reduction in the rates of taxation of legal persons through the strengthening of private consumption and investment. The taxation of real estate on the basis of the real values of real estate. The ‘HRAKLIS’ project to support the reduction of the non-performing loans of the Greek banks. Support for start-ups or enterprises with serious financial problems. We are introducing measures that show our social person and the protection of the Greek family, such as the granting of a birth allowance, making clear our priority for resolving the demographic problem, which is perhaps the biggest issue for the Greek society. In an effort to address tax evasion and the reward of citizens that are consistent with their obligations, we are strengthening e-commerce as the most effective instrument for this purpose and we are integrating the reduction of tax rates into our budget. But our interventions do not stop here. The fiscal policy also wants to help the financial self-sufficiency of local government bodies, by increasing the collection of their own revenue, with a view to improving the efficiency of services to citizens. The fact that E9 is now linked to PPC, in order to actually capture square and, of course, the fairest collection of fees, without going to a five-year retroactive charge, is moving in the right direction. In addition, the fact that the submission of a VAT declaration by the debtors and the simultaneous submission of declarations of fees of imputees on gross revenue to the municipalities achieves a reduction in the administrative burden of the debtors on the one hand and an increase in municipal revenues on the other. It is estimated that this increase will be around EUR 23 million. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of the budget presented today, to support our political will and to give the strength to our country to come out of the stall in which it had stumbled. It is the most comprehensive budget in recent years, with key interventions aimed at all areas of economic, social, political, health and defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u9	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because sometimes I feel like we're making parallel monologues. The Minister of Education the other day announced the recruitment of ten thousand young teachers and I hear that teachers will not be recruited. Ten thousand teachers announced Mrs. Keramea the other day. We must tackle the low productivity of labour, we must reduce unemployment and we must keep our young scientists, our children here in Greece. It is more than ever necessary to create a sense of security, justice and social stability in all Greeks. We are here to work hard, to put our port on a modern, sustainable development state. And as our Prime Minister said, we have chosen the hard way, investing not in the present, but in the future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, forty-one students and three educational sessions from the Royal High School of Evia (Second Chamber) The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister of State has the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr. Stelios Petsas, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the state budget for the financial year 2020. This is the first budget of the new government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. This budget marks the return of our country in the future. It is a budget that incorporates all the reforms that we have adopted. It is a budget that not only imposes additional restrictive measures, but reduces burdens on households and businesses. It's a budget that proves that what we've said we're doing it so we're going to keep going. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget shows that prosperity for everyone does not come by itself or by slogans. A plan is needed, a lot of work and consistency, which restore confidence and develop expectations of realistic optimism. The coordinated efforts of the government have already brought about a change in the climate and the image of Greece. Economic developments in recent months confirm this. There was a complete lift of capital controls. Early repayment was made the high share of the IMF loans. They unlocked large investment projects such as the Greek, the port of Piraeus and Halkidiki. They unlocked about a hundred and seventy applications for authorisations to produce electricity from hybrid stations on uninterconnected islands. The time bomb of PPC was also dismantled and its renovation progressed, while the company's capitalisation exceeded EUR 900 million, i.e. three times the level before the European elections. A further six investment projects, a total of EUR 1.050,000, which creates a thousand five hundred permanent jobs, were approved by the Interministerial Committee. A hundred and nineteen investment projects in the development law amounting to EUR 900 million were also approved. The budgetary gap which was reflected in the third enhanced surveillance report was covered and an overrun that was available to vulnerable population groups was ensured. There was an upgrade of the Greek economy by the ‘STANDARD & POOR’S’. The State is borrowed with treasury bills which have a negative interest rate for the first time. Greece was borrowed with a ten-year bond with only 1.5% interest, compared with 3.9% a few months ago. The general price index of the Exchange is moving close to the high level of 900 units, increased by approximately 45%, compared to the 613 units at the beginning of the year. The economic climate indicator has been moving to 107 units, recording the highest performance since March 2008. The consumer confidence index is at a high level of 20 years. It is clear that expectations of the economic progress have improved spectacularly and that the markets give a vote of confidence in the prospects of our economy, give a vote of confidence in government policy. Ladies and gentlemen, building on confidence, because this is the key to ensuring a better tomorrow for our country, the government's primary objective is to attract investment, to create many well-paid new jobs and to create strong, sustainable growth. Attracting investment is one of the most effective tools at our disposal to stimulate the real economy. In order to reduce unemployment and substantially improve the living conditions of the workers. The change in the policy mix, with reduced taxes and withholding costs, reflected in the 2020 budget, breaks the vicious cycle of overtaxation. And with investment, less taxes and restoring confidence, Greece, from a pigeon to investment and a champion to unemployment, will become the positive surprise of the euro area. For this reason, the truth is, at a time when the growth rate is being revised downwards in the euro area as a whole, in Greece is being revised upwards. The budget provides for an accelerated growth rate of 2.2% recorded, according to the latest ELSTAT figures, in the nine months of 2019, at 2.8% in 2020. All the components of economic growth, namely consumption, exports and, above all, investments, are growing considerably. Greece's GDP is thus driven, after many years, close to EUR 200 billion. In other words, national income is increasing compared to this year by about EUR 7 billion. This means about EUR 1,600 per household greater income. And this undeniable fact gives the answer to a number of wrong views expressed in the past days by the opposition here at the Step. For example, the view that government tax revenues are increasing in 2020 has been heard many times, so taxes are not being reduced. Because the Greek people are listening to us and we have to be serious and tell the truth and as the theory teaches, and the truth is that when an economy is in an area of overtaxation, tax reduction causes an increase in tax revenue. And the Greek economy in SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, has broken all the records of overtaxation. In addition, the increase in tax revenue in 2020 will come from the strengthening of growth rates. As the economic pie grows - and in 2020, as I mentioned, it increases by about EUR 7 billion - it is obvious that tax revenue will also increase, as increased income will bring direct and indirect taxes and insurance contributions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, yes, it is possible to reduce taxes and at the same time increase tax revenue. It is neither an ideological nor a micro-party confrontation. It is a question of good economic policy and common sense that has been so short in recent years. Along with overtaxation, the 2020 budget finally puts an end to the policy of overcrowding. It is recalled that 11,4 billion euros have been deducted from the economy during the period 2016-2018, as the previous speaker said, beyond the high primary surpluses agreed by the previous government with creditors, an entirely unjustified and counterproductive policy that strangled the Greek economy, singing the growth rate, thus losing an extremely favourable international situation in 2015-2018, when, i.e. the global economy enjoyed high growth rates, low energy prices and cheap liquidity, thanks to the anti-conventional monetary policy measures of the major central banks. As proof of the above, I submit in the Minutes two graphs for 2017 and 2018, which show that the higher the unnecessary surplus, the lower the rate of growth. Instead of leveraging the budget has become a great left in the hands of the previous government - Mr Tsakalotos would say, if necessary, -'save'. This policy ends. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, Mr Stylianos Petsas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned graphs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget proves in practice that the New Democracy Government is here to do what is right and not what is easy. With vision and realistic optimism. Boldly and wisely. For our homeland to return with confidence in the future. A better future for all. I therefore call on you, with a sense of responsibility, to vote in favour of the 2020 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the time. Mr Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA, who is the last speaker in the sixteenth cycle. Mr. Vardakis, you have seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr Petsa, I, frankly, would give you my time and I would not have spoken if you were to take the floor to tell me whether in one of the thirty two bills which, as one of our colleague said, you have brought in the last few years, you have even a measure in favour of the workers, in favour of the working class. One metre in the thirty-two bills you've brought! Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you remain faithful to your neoliberal policy, faithful to the ideals of depreciation of the social state, faithful to the promotion of measures that concern few and excellence to the detriment of the average Greek family and the world of work, faithful to the tested tactics and policies that turn us into seasons before 2015 and ultimately to all that brought the crisis, impoverishing the Greek people. You brought the most famous project "HARAKLIS" for the red loans and the first residence. You made it a flag. Aren't you worth putting a signature on a ready bill to save the houses, the first residence of the borrowers of the former ECE, and you're telling me you're going to save the first residence? A signature wanted the bill. We gave it to you. Well, a dome landscape. You do not choose to direct a significant part of the budget, which you inherited from the previous government, to low and medium-incomes, which consume most of their incomes in basic needs. There will therefore be no significant increase in private consumption, which will have adverse effects on growth. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you had created an idea in society that the New Democracy is coming, hope is coming. Of course, since the next day of the elections, you have started to disprove everything you promised, namely, that you would strengthen the middle class, that you would protect the world of work. The budget shows that there will be no significant improvement in their income situation. At the same time, with the body of anti-corruption regulations that you have already voted on, you are abolishing any concept of law. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I personally refuse to comment on the core of your budget - in my view it is not worth it - I refuse to mock us, I refuse to mock the Greek people. Your Greek people trusted the country's governance in 2012, with Prime Minister Samaras and you went bankrupt. Your first-time officials then - in 2011, that is, in 2012, in 2013 - were invoking you for corruption, strife, lawlessness, sea-loving of your parties and today they are your ministers. Rejoice them! The SYRIZA - ANEL government came in 2015. We have received a bankrupt country, and we have succeeded with a huge effort, a house, a brake on corruption and a connection to get the country out of the memoranda with society upright. We restored the dignity of the Greek worker by collective agreements that you are now abolishing. We gave you the financial opportunity to repay even expensive loans from the IMF. Monday night PPC was bankrupt and Tuesday morning you saved her. A great miracle! Not to say about HISPIA, the hundred and twenty doses that, with some changes that you have made, you presented them as your bills. We have given you the opportunity to formulate and formulate that in forty - five days you have saved the country as miraclemakers. And we come in July 2019. SYRIZA lost the election. We lost the election because we put a hand in the mediation establishment. They didn't like the first time they put the hand in the pocket. We lost the election, because we didn't make ruffles, and we did good! - Because we're not the same. We lost the election because we kept the dignity of public life. You see what happens today, every day. We lost the election, because the former Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, stood up against the false-accelerators, who poisoned the Greek people with your own contribution and signed the Prespecies Agreement, whose importance today seems essentially to be true. And in honor of them, if you wish, some of your own executives recognize it. We lost the election because we stood against the establishment. And, unfortunately, we didn't have time to break the abscess. As strange as it may seem to you, these were the reasons why we lost the election. In July the elections were not won by Mr Mitsotakis, but by means of corruption, lawlessness and populism. But the abscess will break. Be sure! I hope it's not too late for the Greek people and 10-year-old lost sacrifices! Mr President, let me put two - three questions. I challenge you from this Step to get one or one of you to answer us. You got the elections on record that SYRIZA put twenty-eight taxes, that he cut salaries and pensions fifteen times, that the 700 million social dividends that SYRIZA gave were "fresh", that the thirteenth pension was an election trick, that 80% of our farmers paid great taxes. So tell us here, by bold name, if you have the guts, who were the twenty-eight taxes, when they came in and who you were going to abolish today, to save, it's supposedly, the middle class that we had destroyed. You destroyed her in the middle class. In your day, there has been a sharp drop in GDP of 26%. What wages and what pensions have we cut and which of them are you bringing back today to correct injustice? The 700 million of ours were "fly", the 200 million of yours today what are they? What farmers paid for SYRIZA arrogant taxes and are now taxed with your own budget? The only thing you are consistent with, Mr Mitsotakis, is that you said that the thirteenth pension was unnecessarily inappropriate today, which you deprive the economically weaker. Where did the unemployment recovery programmes go? Where did the rental subsidy go? Give EUR 2,000 in instalments for children born and cut off the social dividend in the tritexes. Where are the costs for new kindergartens? You are blocking pan-Hellenic university schools, instead of increasing spending on education. Where are the school lunches? Where's the health expenditure? Where is the reduction in insurance contributions? And finally, where are the staff of your state of staff? You themselves believed what you said against the coral for two years, that SYRIZA gave one and took ten. You did this today. To avoid forgetting about it, I met a patriot in Heraklion the day before yesterday and told me to tell you, gentlemen of the government, "hails" on a subject that you've done "significant" and thank you for getting a heating subsidy of 58.5 euros. Put on, Mr. Pecha, your papers down, see a long-term unemployed man how much heating allowance he'll get. And you do it "significant". 58,5 euros! If you do not respond specifically to all this, let me say that you are also liars and populists, but also politically unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily for this country, which regains destruction. A New Democracy colleague said that "for the first time MPs and ministers of government do not come to Step in an apology to justify anti-grassroots measures". Ladies and gentlemen, populism and anaesthesia have levels. No one, of course, is nervous about what you're saying. We are all concerned, however, about what you are doing. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have all read - and with this I am closing down, Mr President - the note that Mr Mitsotakis gave you: new full-time jobs. Mr Theocharis told us yesterday about two thousand new jobs in tourism. Really, Mr. Theochari, really, gentlemen of the government, with what contracts will you bring good jobs, new jobs well paid? The ones you abolished the day before yesterday? With 'the children of a lower God', told us by Mr. Hatzidakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u15	You need to close up, Mr. Vardakis. Because you opened a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u16	Your first victims were clearly PPC's new entrants. Really, these are things you should be ashamed of. You abolished the right reason for dismissal. You abolished the collective agreements. Second victims, as I told you, were PPC and the banks the day before, the group redundancies began. You have abolished mediation, the co-responsibility of a contractor and, in fact, you are giving them - a new scandal - the debts of earlier years than fines. You have almost abolished the APRC, the more favourable regulation. That is what you think is not impoverishing society and bringing growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Vardakis, you have to close up. You've reached nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u18	I'm closing, Mr. President. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the election notes you pay are very costly, but unfortunately, this cost will be paid by the Greek people again in this budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u21	Here you go, Mr. Pecha.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u22	I would like to respond to the challenge that I have received. You may not have heard anything, but there were all the actions that the government needed by means of legislative acts in order to cover the names of companies made redundant, linked to 'THOMAS COOK', in order to receive the unemployment benefit, which was even extended. This is the first of the many things you have asked for. Two. You may not have heard it, but the fired people who had problems with Syros saw it in their pocket. Thirdly and perhaps more importantly, because it only took a few days. Has the tax bill with an import rate of 9% not been passed by parliament? You mean half the employees who see this much relief aren't about you? The about three out of four free professionals who declare up to EUR 10,000 income and have EUR 1,300 more in their pockets than the reduction in this rate does not concern you? That's my answer. All this is seen by the citizens and they applaud them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u23	I talked about private sector workers. If you don't want to, don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much. The speakers of the seventeenth cycle, which is the last, are Mr Marios Salmas, Mr Haris Mamoulakis, Mrs Nina Kasimatis, Mrs Anna Evthymou, Mr Alexis Haritsis, Mr Christoforos - Emmanuel Boutsikakis and Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis. These are the speakers, so we get to two hundred six. Of course, there are the ministers, the rapporteurs, and so on. I see most of them are here. Mr Salmas has the floor and Mr Consolas follows. Mr. Salma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is the twentieth budget that I have the honour of taking the floor to reflect a few thoughts in this House. Every year that passes - and this applies to all of us - within us why we are taking the floor and taking the floor in this debate, which this budget debate is always used to represent a vote of confidence in the government. Apart from that, however, this time I will vote for this budget, because I think it is on the right track. So he's got a matter of substance too. And what's the right way? A budget must be aimed at development. And it is judged by the results of development, so those who rushed to be hasty in criticising the government to make a little patience so that the measures taken last five months and some of them before having a turn over have an impact when they are implemented. I hear many colleagues criticise measures and the tax bill, which we have not even seen in the uses to be implemented, namely the use of 2020, which we will see in the 2021 tax declarations. Or even, in the 2019 usage, which we will see in the results of the first half of 2020. So he wants patience and we can all support the government together. I was one of those who, when SYRIZA was first elected in 2015, had the courage to say publicly that I wish the government of Mr. Tsipras would succeed. Because the country had no room to fail. And I was one of those who took the positive metro, and I was happy inside. Because in the end we all apologise to the citizens. No one should rejoice with one government to fail. The opposition is legitimate, criticism is legitimate, but we must not forget the goal that the country is going to achieve. And the country has gone through a great adventure, it is now in the "light". And Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the first Prime Minister to have an advantage over the three previous elected Prime Ministers: Mr Papandreou, Mr Samaras and Mr Tsipras, who all said that they were unable to apply their ideology in the crisis. Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the first Prime Minister to apply his ideology, which is firmly established in realism and finds me fully in agreement. I had spoken about the turn of realism years ago and I am proud that Kyriakos Mitsotakis implements a policy, not right, not left, but a realistic policy that looks at the needs of the citizens. He wants very braveness to invite the bankers and a lot of sensitivity to tell them: "I will do anything to re-establish the banks, but listen to me. You will fix the charges of your consumers and customers." It takes a lot of courage to call the mobile phone companies and tell them that "you will give more data and make the terms even better". He wants political bravery. And you know me for twenty years, I'm not easily coming to talk about a Prime Minister, even of my own side. It takes a lot of braveness to get out and say "I apologise to the people because they were troubled by the strike of workers, employees, metro employees". This is a sample that we should welcome, not undermining. I said before that this budget is on the right track because it serves exactly not only what Mr Mitsotakis said from the outset, as it also has one consequence and it is one of the few times that we see a Prime Minister doing what he said to do more quickly and with a greater intensity for the benefit of the state. Is it on the right track? Is it - not to say the details - to the orbit of the tax exemption, since we have agreed that in order for growth we should agree to correct tax distortions in our country a little? It is. So it reduces the tax rates. Do I now have to say that SYRIZA will also agree that tax rates need to be reduced? It's a bit of a matter. Towards the end and the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, wanted to reduce the tax rates. He had therefore accepted that his policy in previous years, which was an increase in taxation, was wrong. Does it take a lot of philosophy to find out what the ideal tax is? All we have to do is make a deal. You'll see how we all agree. Can the poor bear tax? Oh, no. Should every citizen be taxed on the basic goods he needs to take? Oh, no. Do we have to put high taxation on large companies or on those who invest? No, because nobody's coming. So who should take the weight? The doctor, the engineer, the lawyer? You taxed them. In vain. It did not increase revenues, it did not bring growth, it did not unleash growth from 1.5% to 2%. And at such a rate of growth the country doesn't make. Growth rates are required much larger. Does he want a lot of philosophy to find out what the ideal taxation is for fuel, special tax, cigarettes and all that? Are we not able as a state to study the elasticity of demand with honor? So let's find out where the tax on expensive cars, luxury cars, which disappeared from the streets and which burn more petrol, didn't work? We need philosophy to say that even the increase in excise duty on petrol was not a means of efficiency. So once we agree on who has to pay taxes, we have to make a basic agreement: that opposition must contribute to political stability. I've always believed her and always believe her. No one invests in a country that has political instability. Luckily, we all did it together. We have managed to keep our country out of political instability, reach agreement on the critical, the big ones. I must tell you that, in order for there to be investment, more than little taxation, we need stable taxation. I wanted to live in this parliamentary term for the parties to agree on a tax system which will not change for the next ten years or at least for the next five years. That would be an achievement to leave to the next generations, to tell them: We have left our controversy - in any case in four years' time, we have the luxury of doing so - but we have agreed - and here also needs courage from the government and from the opposition and from all the parties - to find a system of taxation that is fair and has a minimum of understanding so that we can leave it stable and whoever wants to invest in knowing that it will not change for the next five to ten years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u26	You need to finish it, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that this budget also has its social sensitivity. I would like to know that the Prime Minister's commitment is to make a billion dollars available for social solidarity benefits and to say that we need to make a brave agreement again. Do we want surpluses that we share in the world, or do we want to invest in defence, or do we want to invest in our country that should not be a country - and I close with this reference to national issues - which will expect our allies to resolve the issues in our region? That's not possible. Our allies are countries that have a military industry and countries that have a military industry that are strong, want peace, but want peace with arms consumption. So no one can expect from others what the country itself has to do. And I was called and I was told "we didn't get a dividend". And it was easy to say it was the government's fault they wouldn't get a dividend. But we need to have an honest conversation. Do we want to invest in the defense, our defence, our national industry? We want to invest in the security of the country because we have decided to use the Aegean's wealthy sources, or we want what I have heard for twenty years, that we will use our wealth producing sources, but we never do so suddenly and now we want to invest in defence, because we are afraid Turkey does not come to intervene in the use of our own wealth producing sources, that is to say, invest in expenditure without having made any progress, which is our sole responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Salma, this is where we want to finish in time. My dear patriot, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u29	Because it really ends sooner than expected the debate and we'll have the vote earlier, so I've been misused two minutes from your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u30	I don't think it's abusive. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the report 'The Parliament of the Greeks'. The one-way stations of nearly 200 years old", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two teachers from the American College of Greece The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides]] Mr. Konsolas, Deputy Minister for Tourism, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, sincerely these days arguments have been put forward, proposals have been made, ideas have been made. It was, however, a budget that was debated very much. And no matter what arguments and what points of view each of our colleagues spoke about this step, he is convinced that this is the first time we have been discussing a budget with a development figure in the years to come. It is the first budget after four years, which is not a budget with the valuation of overtaxation and an attempt to deposit taxes, in order to have a course in a government programme. Also, a second reason, as Mr Skakakis rightly said to me, is a budget that does not make use of the surpluses in order to be able to make policies. And it is true that the embarrassment of many colleagues is obvious because this catastrophe they have put out of the House, but also here at the National Representation, has not been echoed, because their arguments are in vain. And we say this because many, if you remember, in the previous period, with the announcement of the de-escalation of HISPIA, had testified their destructiveness, saying that there will be a huge gap that cannot be covered. They have been disproved from the first moment, and they will also now be disproved in connection with the degression of tax rates, but also taxation, the de-escalation of employers' contributions, which means that the economy, and especially the cyclical tourism economy, will now be competitive. If you ask me today if Greek tourism is competitive, I will tell you that we are on a road, in a direction that we are trying to make tourism competitive in relation to our neighborhood. A prerequisite for this perspective is the degression of taxation. We did so with the degression of rates in the previous period, since I would remind you that the previous government had literally made a tax raid on people on the market and on tourism either by increasing residence and focus or by increasing tax rates on tourism businesses, whether at additional charges or by abolishing reduced VAT rates on islands and other areas. Therefore, Greek tourism must gain its own potential. I think that this dynamic has been recovered from the imposition of taxes since the previous period. The answer we give is a new strategic plan for a decade in tourism. This is therefore the retardative course presented by the Ministry of Tourism. I would like to turn your thoughts to the report by Prime Minister Mitsotakis that Greek tourism must finally have a strategic plan that goes beyond the limits and mandate of a government. If we believe that Greek tourism is the great mechanism for producing wealth, jobs and also a competitive framework for the economy so that we can move forward, then we need a plan, a long-term plan that did not exist. We have heard about the number of visitors coming to the country many times in terms of government tourism policy. And it is true that we, together with the previous triumphants, triumphed for the number of visitors. However, the positive sign in tourism records the revenues. And there was a big problem. This is the strategic development plan. Today we are talking about multicentre development in the country. Greek tourism can be developed in all corners, in all regions of the country. This is our position as far as the budget of the Ministry of Tourism is concerned. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the regular budget that you know and have seen in the budget amounts to EUR 37 million, there is an additional EUR 30 million from the Public Investment Programme from the national strand and co-financed in order to produce the policy, to carry out actions in the region, to develop thematic tourism and to provide a response with development actions and projects that the tourism economy needs, but above all the employees in tourism. In order for there also to be innovation and an additional indicator to competitiveness, there is a need for a boost from the Ministry of Tourism with these EUR 33 million first budgeted. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the honour of President Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, to be entrusted with the portfolio of tourism education and the development of regional tourism services in the country. I would like to remind you that in the past four years, the previous government and the leadership of the Ministry of Tourism has announced many times the opening of the Tour School. Only he stayed in the announcements. Therefore, for the first time in history, we have ensured that Athens operates at the same time in the first and second year of the Tour School. We opened after twelve years in Thessaloniki and proceeded with the modernisation of studies on tourism education as a whole. We also restored an injustice in the students of the Higher Schools of Tourism Professions, giving them the identity of the academic evidence that the students needed, since they were not written and did not even have any student. And that's just the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, the state over time had included tourism education in a project that was not competitive with our neighborhood. I would remind you that in our neighbourhood by the east, in the Middle East, in Cyprus, in Croatia, in Italy, there are schools of tourism that echo the needs of the economy, tourism and workers. The new structure of tourism education that the country needs to have is moving in a direction that reverses the traditional model of education, training and lifelong learning. We are therefore moving forward and I am pleased to announce that we have completed the draft law, which concerns the overthrowing of this model for tourism education at the level of upgrading of higher education in the country, as well as for the Vocational Training Institutes, but also for the Vocational Training Centres and the Centres for Lifelong Learning, for which you need to be very well aware that we have refunctioned throughout the country, giving a good quality positive signal, since people in tourism need to specialise and enter the area of innovation and technology that is now needed for the tourism market. I shall close, Mr President, since thank you. I would like to say that tourism applies throughout the country. I come from a region in the country, the focus today on the debates, including geopolitical, national, tourist, but mainly islands is at the heart of each and every one of us. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] The Dodecanese shows its own pulse. We are used to saying that tourism is our national business. It's a national effort. However, what is needed as a prerequisite for establishing any innovation in the country is to cultivate national consciousness. And whatever ailments exist in our neighborhood, in the Dodecanese, in the Libyan Sea, in the Cretan Sea, in Kastelorizo, where the heart of Greece strikes, whatever concern there is from our neighbours, we are dealing with them with national unity, mind and domination of the Armed Forces where we have absolute confidence. I wish you all a happy holiday. Mr President, thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister. Mr Mamoulakis from SYRIZA has the floor and Mrs Euthymou prepares for the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the 2020 budget is the best opportunity to highlight the differences between the two parties of power, the SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Successful exit from the Financial Adjustment Programmes in the summer of 2018 increased the degrees of budgetary freedom of our country and together created a stable potential pathway of gradual austerity reduction in the years ahead, provided that a favourable climate in the international economic climate is favourable. We share that view, I think, most of them in this Chamber. However, what makes the parties' strategies considerably deviate is precisely the route, which they choose to degrade austerity in the country. The way in which they wish to share the fruits of these efforts is the fundamental difference between the New Democracy and SYRIZA. It is, therefore, precisely the way in which the government chooses to use the financial resources created by the efforts of the previous government and, above all, the sacrifices of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the first unscrupulous conclusion is that the current government does not intend to use the extra financial space to increase the costs for the social state. At the same time, while remaining firm in its ideas on the vast public sector - and here I would like to stress this - it reduces expenditure on narrow government bodies by half a billion euros on general costs. Anyone who has any contact with any public service in the country - except perhaps Mr Stakoura - will know that these costs have been minimised in the years of the memoranda, with huge consequences for the services mentioned above. But anyway, that's what the Minister thinks, that's what he does. With zero increases in expenditure for the narrow public sector, weak increases for the social state and the Public Investment Programme sticking to last year's levels, New Democracy chooses to use the space created in tax exemptions. This is an option in principle, as no one doubts that the Greeks have, in fact, been overtaxed in recent years. Questions begin, however, when we focus more carefully on tax exemptions, because, as it turns out, the lion's share of high incomes and large companies in the country, which are almost half a billion euros favoured by a reduction in profits taxation. These taxes could relate to the popular layers. They could, for example, favour the final consumption through the reductions in the Value Added Tax, the VAT planned by the SYRIZA Government. However, Mr Stakoura's choice is very clear, namely a lot for the few, crumbs for the many. But even if we were to agree that all tax evasion should be directed to businesses - which we do not agree - the choices of the current government are entirely counter-developmental, because ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, the real economy today, the backbone of small and medium-sized Greek entrepreneurship does not claim more profits, but more liquidity. And in this direction you choose not to make a series of interventions that would really make the economy mobilize. You do not touch the depreciation coefficient, you do not change the advance tax payment, and you do not abolish the trade fee. So the budget is not only neoliberal because it shrinks the state, not only is it antisocial because it redistributes incomes in favour of the rich, but it is also anti-development, because it does not favour the country's real businesses. It is undevelopmental for one more reason, because the only sector photographed as the privileged vehicle of the multi-famous development is the construction sector and the real estate. Finally, let me refer to a slightly different subject, but it relates to today's debate on the budget, which is the future of the 'Philodimos' programme. As you know, a few days ago, the Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodorikos announced the abolition of the program "Philodimos", a financial instrument that gave a breath to local government and was able to hear the needs of the municipalities in small infrastructures, in many areas such as water, irrigation, technical works, anti-military works, land-raising projects, as well as the upgrading of the building stock of local government bodies. In fact, at this point I will tell you that I have had the experience as vice mayor of the Municipality of Heraklion, the fourth municipality of the country, to really see these positive effects of the project and to be a multitude of projects in progress at this time. The reason for this is, according to Mr Theodorikos, that the previous government had not provided the necessary resources for the beyond one billion projects expected to be included in the programme, despite the previous government's agreement on open credit light with the European Investment Bank. Last Wednesday, in response to my colleague Alexis Haritsis, after taking over SYRIZA, he assured us that none of the more than five hundred projects in the programme will be lost. Today what do we see? That the program or some identical, exactly the same size, is in government planning. So, what does Mr. Theodorikos say to us? That the physical object of the "PHILIDIS" will remain, as all the projects that would be integrated before they will be integrated and now, that the financial component of the programme will remain the same, as this is reflected in the budget and that the financial "architecture" of the programme will remain the same, as on an annual basis the loan will be renewed for the needs of the programme. So what will Mr. Theodorikos change? The name? Will you change the brand name, Mr. Theodorikos, to fruit your "PHILIDIS"? Or is the project selection procedure going to change itself? Is the only thing that will eventually change is the obligation of all the country's self-government to mediate their municipality's needs from his personal grace and favor? I think the attitude of the Minister and his announcements lack seriousness and create huge and unnecessarily upsetting in the world of local government I and II. It is not too late to withdraw, Minister, and just tell us that you will make micromodifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki. Mrs Evthymou from New Democracy has the floor and then Mr Vorides has the floor. Here you go, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget to be voted is optimistic, but it does not go beyond the limits of realism. It seeks a balance between economic efficiency and social justice and is oriented towards supporting the development process through, in particular, strengthening investment. The direct and beneficial consequence of investment aid is the creation of new jobs well-paid in a sustainable way. It is a great honour to me that today as a new Member I am taking part in discussing a development budget of symbolic importance. The general remarks have been made by the rapporteurs-general, parliamentary representatives and other fellow Members. My speech will focus on two thematic interconnectors, investment and the creation of new jobs. I shall speak about them because I have 15 years of experience as a fighter specialising in labour law, but I have also been a substitute for Mr Karaoglou in work in the New Democracy. The 2020 budget lays the foundations for addressing the great problem of the Greek economy in recent years, namely the growth and investment gap that has kept Greece in a stable position in the last few years between the countries of the European Union in terms of investment and in the first place in terms of unemployment rates. Since the start of the crisis a large investment gap has been created in Greece as a result of the successive decline in the volume of investments in the first phase of the crisis, the sharp deterioration of business expectations, the liquidity conditions in the economy in 2015, through the imposition of restrictions on capital movements and, of course, the unexpected redecrease in investments in 2018. In more detail, gross fixed capital formation in Greece as a percentage of GDP amounted before the crisis to more than 20%, while after 2010 it decreased by about 10 percentage points. In the first half of 2019, investment was only 11.6% of GDP and real investment moved significantly lower in the first half of this year. On the contrary, an increase of 12.3% in the second half of the year is estimated to reach 13.1% in 2020. At the same time, international benchmarks for the assessment of the business environment have so far ranked very low in Greece. For example, for 2019 with figures for the period 2017-2018, the indicator for the convenience of the World Bank business ranked Greece lower than in 2018, in the 72th place. These figures, which have been relevant in recent years, illustrate SYRIZA's policy, which has been extremely fearful and ideological with investment and a one-dimensional bonus, without giving room for real growth which will guarantee the creation of new jobs and the sustainability of the insurance funds. On the contrary, the economic policy pursued by the new government aims to reverse this situation and to increase investment dynamically in the Greek economy. The medium-term objective of the new policy is that of investing as a percentage of GDP gradually approaching the level of the crisis. This is of course also reflected in the economic climate index after the first half of 2019, which follows an impressive upward trend that is a record for Greece since the start of the economic crisis, contrary to the slowdown in the respective Eurozone index. It is therefore clear that the Greek economy has now entered a period of favourable growth. Of course, I will not go into the bills that we voted on like the development or tax, but I will sum up all this at yesterday's meeting between our Prime Minister and Christine Lagard and the positive climate with which this has been done. Of course, the positive climate reflects both the labour market sizes, in particular the overall employment level and the unemployment rate, which are expected to improve significantly in 2020 as a result of the overall recovery of the economy, the strengthening of positive economic climate expectations, as well as targeted institutional and organisational interventions in the labour market. In this respect, the measures to combat undeclared and undeclared work, as well as any form of infringability in the labour market by systemifying and tightening the control process, creating a register of infringability for undeclared work, and increasing the cost of hours of work beyond the agreed duration of parttime work. The same is planned for the completion of the white business register, a modern reward mechanism for the consequent employers. But also in the field of welfare and social solidarity the government is maintaining the net of social protection through the benefits granted by OPECA. More specifically, it is planned to pay child benefit, social solidarity income, housing allowance, social solidarity allowance for uninsured over-ages and to provide insecure over-ages with preferential cash benefits for disabled persons. A birth allowance for every child born in Greece of EUR 2 000 is also foreseen and introduced, with the budget for this measure amounting to EUR 123 million in 2020. In parallel to the provision of allowances, the financing of the operation of social poverty structures has been ensured - social grocery stores, day care centres for the elderly, social pharmacies and so on. - by means of the co-financed Public Investment Programme of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and not only for the financial year 2020, but also for the following financial years. In addition, for the insurance funds the balance of insurance funds in budgetary terms for 2020 is projected to show a surplus improved by EUR 202 million compared to estimates for the financial year 2019. A new insurance system is also planned in 2020. Those of us who are involved in labour law have stressed many times that the law of the previous SYRIZA government will be judged unconstitutional and that is how it has been done. So we will be dealing with bringing in an insurance system which respects the principles of proportionality, recompense and respect for solidarity between generations. The 2020 budget also includes the reduction of insurance contributions to employed labour by 0.9 percentage points, starting in the second half of 2020. We can therefore see that the Ministry of Labour is trying to do its best in a very critical area, especially after ten years of crisis. That is why it must do a targeted and constructive policy to implement our Prime Minister's will to support workers and sensitive social groups and combat unemployment, with measurable results. At this point, I would also like to refer to the rebrain Greece initiative, which is clearly a very positive effort, and I also livelylyly endorse it as a representative of the generation that has left abroad. Of course, I will not go into SYRIZA's logic that the program with the four thousand specialist scientists he denounces is being abolished. However, this programme would wish it to continue. But I would stress that what Mr Brutsis is doing is very positive and shows that meritability must be applied in general to all the actions and aspects of the Ministry of Labour and its supervised bodies. At the same time, I would also like to make a proposal, as I have been transferred from relatives of people who have emigrated abroad and live in this distress. Instead of the employer having to keep the worker a year longer than one year of grant, this time should be extended to two years for two reasons: in order to create deeper dependency links between the employer and the employee, so that it is not easy to dismiss and also to provide the State with 70% real benefit and amortisation on the part of employers, which can only be done if the programme's compulsoryity is extended by one year more. In conclusion, I consider it important for my region, the region of Thessaloniki, the commitment through the budget, funds for the grant of transport operators, as well as the commitment yesterday by the State Secretary responsible for caring and urban transport, who in my town have really tortured my fellow citizens under the responsibility of SYRIZA. The same direction is the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, since Thessaloniki and the wider region have been affected by climate change and catastrophes. Environmental policy and green development are becoming extremely important and the New Democracy and the Prime Minister themselves have expressed their position for its importance, specialising in concrete proposals and measures. In my opinion, I close by voting in favour of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u36	The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vorides, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will talk about budgetary issues at the level of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, but I hope you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, a more general reference to the true ideological identity of this budget. There's been something very important. In my opinion something very important has happened in the last elections and has very little been analysed by all the wings. I think that to a very large extent what has happened, it may be a milestone that begins a series of developments that are critical of what is happening today in Greek society. What does this budget do and does it for the first time with such consistency and commitment? It does word for word, step by step, what has been said in the pre-election and for which the present government has been ordered. Precisely. Why is that important? It is important because for the first time a candidate Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, spoke with absolute honesty and said "hard" things to the Greek people. Why would these selfish things be difficult? But it was very difficult because they had no resonance over the years because of the ideological hegemony of the left in Greek society. So it was hard. He said so clearly and with absolute honesty and approved and implemented today. What did he say at the budget level? 'I will reduce the costs'. He's doing it. He got an order for that. What else did he say? 'I will reduce taxation'. He's doing it. He said something even more shocking. For the first time he said "I will reduce taxation on companies and dividends". Mr. Haritsis, do you know why it's shocking? I realize you're in an ironic mood, I want you to stay like this. Do you know why? Because this shows that you do not understand the great ideological changes taking place not in the Chamber but in society. If anyone said that 15 years ago, it would be the people of corporations and capital. Abnormal, the one who drinks the blood of the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u38	It's now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u39	It is now, Mr. Haritsis, only now nobody believes it but you. You're saying it's now. The Greek people, on the contrary, know that the only lever of growth is the private economy that will give birth to jobs, which will create income, and that is why we need to tax less and that is what we are doing and that is what it has voted on. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is not, Mr Chakaloto, the correlation between the subordinate classes and the ruling class, to speak with your own terminology. Because you know we used to have the proletarians fighting to overthrow the civil regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u40	And now there isn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u41	We understand, Mr. Catrugale, what that means. Marxist terms were wrong but clear. Since '68 we don't have proletarians, that is, we don't have a class subject on clean terms, we don't have a working class. We have subdivisions. What are the subdivisions? In your terminology, for example, are they not subordinate classes, are those who have a real estate of over 60,000 euros? Because you accused us of having a class. Why did you tell us he had a class? Because he expresses the ruling class. If a man has a property of 70,000 euros, he's not in the subordinate classes, he's in the ruling class.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u42	Five hundred thousand, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u43	It's shattered in your mind. Not only in yours, Mr Tsakaloto, you are echoing a wider flow of the Left in Europe and possibly in the world, which is just now, because he saw the Marxist dead ends trying to replace it with something else, but this other shatters the class subject. By crushing the class subject you have no reference and you actually end up in policies that have no real content. What happened in the July elections is that for the first time the Greek people approved a complete thing, an integrated position, an integrated programme that was presented to them with absolute openness. You're shouting today, I hear some extremes, police rule, junta. You do not understand that this issue has been raised to the Greek people. We told him that we would enforce the law and order, we told him that the state of Exarchates ended, we told him that the state of the extreme left and its violence ended, and we are implementing what - beware of - we have received the direct approval of the people. This is the change of the ideological model. The university asylum had been reintroduced again by a Parliament decision extensively. For the first time, however, the people have said to abolish it and that is the big difference. And that's your agony. Because this marks your deep ideological defeat at all levels. Be careful, to be informed, no hegemony of the left has been overthrown yet. Why? Because this will be judged by the government's fingerprint and results. But if our ideas work at the level of society, as they seem to be working to date, then we will actually have a change of ideological example. Part of this debate is the debate on rural development and see how this is pictured. Since the 1.71 billion which is the budget of the Ministry of Rural Development, 802 million have been committed to the Public Investment Programme to support the Rural Development Programme. In investment and development, government budgets go to rural development. This is the big part of our intervention. And now see your spectacular failures here, which may not even have ideological content. Or I don't know, do they? Maybe they haven't. Here we may have a case of mere incompetence. It's a different charge. Watch why I say it. The Rural Development Programme is stuck. At the moment we reach its activation, with the invitation of new projects and ongoing projects, at 98%. It is the best performance at the European Union level, with the integration of projects at 88%, with legal commitments at 78%, with absorption at 47%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u44	You did so many things in three months!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u45	I like these comments. Do you know why? Because now, with specific examples, I will tell you why this has happened, with things that you have not done. Why would you not explain to me why you hadn't gone ahead with the improvement plans? Be careful what part of the Rural Development Programme is. It's 600 million! It is 600 million stuck for years, which have not gone ahead, to take account of Greek agriculture. Do you know why? Because they had made the legal Russian salad. They were confusing the notices, looking for prices, making tariffs. It didn't make any sense. They had circuits taken off, undoing the notices. It took me a lot of legal work to untie this thing. But now the improvement plans are running. The programs for the agricultural consultants why did you have them and look at them? Why did you look at the programmes of the agricultural advisers? The programs on preventive protection issues? Be careful - because I hear that - you have removed preventive protection from disasters, that is, all that we are discussing now. What do our producers want? The damage, the tears, all these issues. There was a envelope in the Rural Development Programme. You took it off. And now we are looking and making constructions in European regulations to find them. Why did you take it off? Take note, then, of the fact that there was a whole series of issues carved for years, because they were not exactly your priorities. It wasn't developmental. They weren't investment. They were priorities which are reflected in your current political speech. What do you say? You are opposed to this budget, and you are against it in internal inconsistency. On the one hand, you say 'we've done it and you're doing it now.' That's good, isn't it? Did you guys have it done and we're doing it now? Vote them. You have no disagreement. What disagreement do you have if we implement your own projects? Then you say backwards: 'No, it's not what we would do. Because we would be doing other donor policies. We are voting for this budget mainly because it is a budget, the first budget that marks the change of the ideological model and the victory of our ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u47	Mr Voridis, I would first like to say that you have disappointed me, because you usually read, listen, you face arguments. Yesterday in the House, in my speech, I tabled four diagrams for the global economy. The two which were for growth and investment show that in the last thirty years we have a downward trend in all developed countries, both in investment and in development. The other two diagrams relate to the last 10 years, showing the absolute wage stagnation and productivity growth. Now, of course, these results are with your own policies. In America, in Europe, in Britain neoliberals were ruling and saying exactly the same, that tax reduction would lead to greater growth and greater investment and did not happen. I expect you to analyse this, unless you are in favour of the Dog theory, which says that failed policies in rich countries, 'we are reducing taxes, in order to increase growth and investment', may be successful in less wealthy countries. That's how dialogue takes place. Your ideological hegemony was in developed capitalist countries and the results are seen. The second relates not to your role as Minister for Rural Development, but to a second role. You remember a month ago Mr Petrolakis at "Kathemerini" had a sketch that you were in front of the MATs, they are protesters in front and you say: "Or, reap." And the leader asks you in the sketch: “What are you?” But I am the Minister for Rural Development. You are not just a Minister for Rural Development. You are also a substantial Minister for Citizen Protection, because yesterday Mr Chrysochoidis tried to signal that there is a concern about the diversions that we have seen. I didn't hear anything from you about it. Obviously the Greek people gave you some instructions in the rightful and conservative direction, but it did not permit you to remove the asylum of the people's home. He never gave you permission that the police could enter without a warrant and without the presence of a prosecutor. Nor did the police give you permission to want to take little girls out on the street, and since she doesn't accept, to go into the cafeteria. I don't think she gave you that kind of permission. This authoritarianism needs an answer. Because, as Mr Tsipras has said, 'we will upset you in legitimacy' - he has said so many times - I cannot say that you have upset us in liberalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u48	You have the floor for two minutes, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u49	Mr Tsakalotto, first of all, if I had excited you, I would have been worried. Your disappointment I take it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u50	On the one hand, disappointment, the other hand, enthusiasm. Somewhere in the middle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u51	Okay, excuse me. On the contrary, I would say this. This type of simple analysis, you in particular don't make it. So, what do you think? That there is no internal rivalry and battle everywhere in all the Western states and in all Western republics?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u52	How isn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u53	Depending on the choices made by the citizens, do politicians not go this way, sometimes? You see, in other words, the policy of economics in the United States - because you have used this example - as a linear policy which is not affected by changes? Do you want to tell me that President Obama followed neoliberals, as you say, politics, when he has emblematics about your own area of reform? So this is an oversimplification. Reality is one, whatever suits you or you're trying to fit it into a deformative shape. Reality is one and it must be placed: More or less taxes? Trust in the private economy or not? State and State investment and State intervention in the private economy or not? Can we be clearly placed on it instead of blurring the soup?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u54	With all this, is the world economy okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u55	Please let him finish. Excuse me, but an ideological battle is taking place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u56	It's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u57	It's not bad. But it is good that this ideological battle in the budget has a specific background. So, finish the speech, Mr. Haritsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u58	Is the world economy all right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u59	As you know, Mr Tsakaloto, I have no objection to the holidays, as long as I'm not taken away from time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u60	That's not the president's man.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u61	So in the President's judgement. I'll answer if the world economy is going well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u62	...in the investment, in the wages.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u63	I'll answer. The world economy, as you know, has circles. But here's how the amazing and impressive here: The Greek economy is going well. That's what's important! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And it goes well with the government of Mr. Mitsotakis. I don't know about the global economy. The Greek economy, however, is an example of how an economy is going well. I come to the second because that is - if I may, Mr President - something that I am in favour of. I am being called upon by the SYRIZA side, because I am also talking about issues other than the questions of the Ministry of Rural Development. First of all, I'm going to public discussions. I don't define the agenda, Mr. Chakaloto. Unless you tell me that I will go to a public presence, they will ask me about something outside the Ministry of Rural Development and I will say 'I do not answer'. I cannot do that, first of all, because I am also a Member, I have an opinion and I can defend government policies in the whole. We're going to this one, though. I want to hear your position. Do you think that there is a junta and police rule in Greece today? Another and entirely different is whether there is over-violence caused by a certain police officer who is becoming auditor - to control it - and more generalisation. It's the generalization you're doing. And the generalization you're doing, Mr. Chakaloto, is not innocent. You want to do it, because mentally you are identified with this particular space and its illegitimate actions. That is why you feel the willingness to express solidarity. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Otherwise, what would you say? You would say to check on the officer, Mr Tade, who didn't do his job well, which is what we say. Incidentally, in order not to stay impressed, the entrance to the particular building you refer to became an prosecutor. I'm saying this so we can end it all. The next thing you know, they're claims.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u64	Did you read what he's saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u65	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u66	So we should take our confrontation to content. Download your agenda in a clear way, not in half-a-half, escaping. Place yourself in the great dangers so that the Greek people know what they have to choose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Haritsis has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Theodorikos will be followed. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. After what we have heard from Mr Vorides, who told us that we are in a class society, that humanity has passed from prehistoric history to history, it may not make much sense today's budget debate, since we have managed to reach this level. Nevertheless, let's try to land a little bit in reality. Indeed, the budget submitted by the New Democracy is in complete harmony with its policy of 7 July. On the one hand, the obsessed commitment to serving the interests of a few and strong ones is dominated, on the other hand, by contempt, inefficiency and dramatic opposition between announcements and post-election results. Unfortunately, Mr Ministers, with this feeling, we are saying good-bye in 2019. And as Mr Vorides mentioned in the fact that the economy is going well, I would remind him that, instead of discussing the positive results we have had for the past three years - and I would remind him that for SYRIZA's day, the Greek society has left behind the crisis, for the days of SYRIZA, the Greek economy had ten consecutive quarters of positive growth rates, for SYRIZA's day, unemployment has been constantly decreasing - unfortunately, what we do with the 2020 budget is to go back to the familiar, in the old political system, a debate with a budget that reflects neoliberal ideas, grace and anti-social choices. But I have to say - and I agree with Mr Voridis - that the Government of the New Democracy has consistently been involved throughout this period. It's consistent with her inconsistency. At the same time, it is extremely consistent in its commitment to a systemic remedial - Mr Vorides is essentially referring to this when he talks about the political conflict - which refers to a past that our country had chosen to leave behind in previous years. The Government of New Democracy is, of course, inconsistent in the commitments for the ultimate state. Because we saw the advertised doctrine of excellence degenerate to ministers who were lying about their curriculum vitae and junta nurses who occupy key state positions. It is, however, consistent with its old-fashioned communism, with the Prime Minister himself promising positions of hospital governors in local parties and the transformation of public administration into a park to restore the hard core of the old right. It is inconsistent with its electoral commitments and the prerogatives for the Prespecies Agreement, the - supposedly catastrophic agreement then, which is now, of course, retrospectively retrospective of the old Macedonian government awkwardly admit to honouring and respecting it. It is consistent, however, in its ethnicism, which leads to a systematic flirt with the extreme right, the adoption of the doctrine of law and order as a supreme doctrine of the government. Mr. Voridis, today's images from Koukaki were pictures of Baghdad, not of Athens, 2019. You seem to have a mental bond with extreme repression and police violence. Of course, this ethnicism is also expressed in other ways, such as, for example, by its decision to vote against SYRIZA's proposal in the Constitutional Review for the protection of all citizens, regardless of sexual orientation and gender identity. The government is inconsistent with its commitment to resolve the refugee problem within a week, accusing SYRIZA at the same time. It is, however, consistent with its inability to understand the complexity of the issue, its management failure, which leads to successive gauzes. It is consistent with a mystical and inefficient political management of the refugee, where this management unfortunately leads to a division of Greek society and condemns refugees in dreadful conditions of stay on Greek territory. The government is inconsistent with its supposed commitment to development policy, the promises to reduce primary surpluses, the artificial expectation that taxes will be reduced the next day. But it is loyally consistent in its attachment to strong economic interests, to the policy of cuts, to the attack on social policy and protection measures taken by the SYRIZA Government. We saw this in the development bill and we see it even more in the budget. And if we come to the budget, we will become a little more specific. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] We are tired of hearing government officials speak with a rhetoric about the need to reduce taxes. And we're tired, because we all know the elementary. When you talk about a reduction in taxes, you must determine who this reduction relates to and who this reduction of taxes will be burdened with. And the government avoids this debate, because of course the much-advertised reduction in the corporate tax rate from 28% to 24% is only about one in forty companies. And that's not all. 40% of this benefit will be fruited by 0.07% of all enterprises with annual profits of more than 7.5 million euros. This is the great tax achievement of the New Democracy Government, and this alone shows him where her heart is beating. It is hitting the burden on large or very large enterprises. At the same time, of course - because some need to be charged to bring about this relief - it ignores significant relief measures, launched by the SYRIZA government, to support low and medium-scale, such as the abolition of the solidarity levy of up to EUR 20,000, the further reduction of HISA for small and medium-sized property, the reduction of the tax advance to 50% and others. So, in its neoliberal ideas, the New Democracy Government is moving towards a reverse redistribution of income in favour of the few, leading to a widening of inequalities. However, let us see what is happening in the field of investment, and I shall refer specifically to the Public Investment Programme, a very critical development tool, which in addition to the funding it itself contains, mobilizes, activates other resources in the Greek economy, and, in fact, concerns projects that are small and larger in the entire Greek territory. That is why we have worked hard to improve this very important programme at all levels. Especially on the national side, we have increased its budget. We have restructured with the allocation of funds in more productive processes. We have ensured transparency. We have prepared a legislative initiative for its full modernisation, a legislative initiative which, after five months of government in New Democracy, has been passed by a legislative committee, unfortunately, has still to be in drawers. So what do we see today? We see a regression, unfortunately, in the practices of the customer state that led us to bankruptcy. I am referring in particular to the government's decision to cancel the 'Philodimos' programme for local government, a programme of over EUR 2 billion, an extremely successful initiative by the SYRIZA Government, which, unfortunately, seems to be referred to the bells. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a while, Mr President. And it's not, unfortunately, just that. It is the freeze of the Patras - Tower motorway, the cancellation of the design of the metro of Thessaloniki, the stop of the BOAK, the interruption of incorporation and payments in actions to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which were ready in June 2019, the freeze of the extension of the natural gas network, due to the imminent privatization, apparently. All this is done by a government which has made growth and investment a flag. So it is completely indifferent to the impact on local government, but also to the public investment programme itself, which is being driven for this year and for the next few years in very important under-utilisation, and even when in your own budget for 2020, and while the implementation of the programme was 500 million in the first half of the year, you show in the 2020 budget that the overall implementation will be 600 million less than in 2018. You admit, in essence, that we are leading to a very important bleeding of resources from the Greek economy. Since I do not have much time, you will allow me to close with something which, in my opinion, is extremely important. We cannot forget Mr Mitsotakis' mocking style whenever the SYRIZA government announces the annual social dividend. We cannot forget what he said about a policy of support for those affected by the crisis, a policy of symbolic, but also material, material recompense. Today we see Mr Mitsotakis not to dare to cancel this programme, but to undermine it, to weaken it, to grasp it. This, however, does not only concern the social dividend, it concerns the overall policy on social solidarity, with the reduction in the budget of social solidarity allowances granted by the OPECA of EUR 369 million. After all, Mr Skylakakis, who does not hide his neoliberalism, said that we do not need the benefits to survive. It is clear that the New Democracy is allergic to social solidarity, it is clear that it is allergic to social welfare, it is allergic to the idea that politics must serve, first and foremost, the weak and the weak. Because this is where it starts, and this is where it all ends, in how we understand society and, above all, how we vision its future. And, of course, Mr Vorides is right in saying that this is the first budget for changing the ideological model. Indeed, Mr Vorides, it is the first budget to change the ideological model, it is the first neoliberal budget after four years. We will do everything we can, initially voting against the budget, but at the same time we will fight with all our forces to be the last neoliberal budget voted on by the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u71	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, because of the fact that I said yesterday, and in order to understand it, I said that the benefits are necessary, but not a sufficient condition for development.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u73	Can I read again what you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u74	I know. I just read it from the Minutes. I also said that as a nation we did not survive because someone gave us a bonus. I said we survived because we created wealth. So we survived as a nation. Also, I said something else. I said that in order for us to be able to move forward the next day, we must stop this nightmareic policy of overtaxation. SYRIZA's side of economic policy has discovered what the economists Laffer have to say, namely, discovered how to put more taxes and lose revenue. That's what you discovered. It has nothing to do with the international reality that Mr Tsakalotos claims. Mr. Tsakalotus invokes normal savings. The way you make Greece, for every euro allowance you paid, you put 10 euros in taxes and 9 euros back to the lenders.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u75	Before I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Panagiotis Theodorikos, to give permission. Congressman Lazaros Tsavdaridis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from 19-12-2019 to 31-12-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u76	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Let me tell you the schedule for you to have a picture. After Mr. Theodorikos, Mr. Hadjidakis, who has begun to speak, will speak for ten minutes, and then we will have the general rapporteurs of each party, namely Mr. Voloudakis, Mrs. Papanatsiou, Mr. Scandalidis, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Mr. Villiardos and Mr. Arsenis, and if they want to speak in between, every two, a minister will also take the floor. The reason for the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Panagiotis Theodorikos, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in 2019, not in 2009, and today's Census has ruled the country four years. In your own years you sent the entire property of the Greek State for ninety years to the supranational.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u78	Have you read what the budget says? Read what the text says!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u79	Don't get upset, Mr. Chuckle, when you hear the truth. These are your achievements, Mr Chakalote. In your four years, the Maximus Mansion was enclosed and kept, permanently, from the powers of the MATs. The road was closed and no access was allowed to anyone, because you managed to be completely isolated from Greek society. With regard to the violence, which you are complaining about because today the police take the appropriate security measures for citizens, for all Greek citizens, you used it when you beat unsolved protesters who protested about the Ambassadors' agreement. That is the truth, Mr Tsakalote, and we must not forget it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Theodorikos, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u81	Can you say anything about the lawyer's club? What kind of signal are you giving now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Chakalato, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u83	It was four years ago, Mr President, because the basic thing that happened on 7 July is that the Greek people decided to reject a four-year artificial division, defiance of anticipation and extreme demagogy and, at the same time, to order Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy to act on the development, security and reconstruction of the state. This budget is aimed, precisely, at these programmes that Greek society has commanded the current Prime Minister and the New Democracy, with a programme that is realistic, based on truth and logic, once again giving credibility to the country and the political system. There is a steady and targeted reduction in taxation. The middle class is relieved. The government's pro-investment policy is being promoted. Privatisation and the necessary reforms are promoted. Greeks and Greek women begin to feel that there is a real hope again, that applies regardless of what they voted on in the elections. In particular, people who place themselves socially in the middle class feel that way. That is the truth that no one today can question. But economic growth is not enough. The steady path ahead requires an effective state in the service of citizens. At the same time, it calls for risk mitigation and threats to national issues. It calls for the reversal of the great demographic problem which is a major threat to our nation. This whole framework - apart from big capital and economic issues - is an area where political forces can achieve, through a serious dialogue, major shocks, understanding and consensus. Especially in national matters and in relations with Turkey, it is unthinkable nowadays that there should be a party of a public nature. We must all put the swords of party confrontation in the docks on this side of politics. Migration is also subject to this category, where it now needs to be dealt with as a matter of national security and social cohesion. And I would urge the Civic Anti-Civilization to stop running off with Fake News for the government's responsible executives who manage this issue. The government's main priority from the outset, but also with the budget, is to support local government at both degrees. For this reason, from the first measures we have taken, it was to rescue the TATs that the SYRIZA Government, by simply analogy, led them to government. In this direction, the 2020 budget has increased funding for the CAP by almost EUR 100 million. We have responded positively to the demand of the area of self-government, too, to the possibility of the private sector being able to fulfil cleaning, lighting and green services, because our aim is for towns and neighbourhoods to be clean, bright, human, safe and civilised. Our government's policy is to strengthen public-private partnerships and to integrate them into the development programme of self-government, always aimed at improving the quality of life of citizens. We promote innovative administrative actions that face the huge problem in technical services in 80% of the municipalities. We are organising through the EBRD the technical and administrative mechanism with engineers and other specialities, which will help the municipalities in the country, who need it, in the implementation of projects and studies. Interoperability with AIA is taking place in absolute cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance and from the beginning of 2020 they will be able to charge municipal fees on the basis of E9 - is fair and act - with the commitment by the State that there will be no retroactive fines for cases that have in any way been made by citizens. We are creating, in cooperation with self-government, the new project development programme for the next four years - this programme will have a strong social and development sign - prioritising the highest value that exists: human life, security and protection of citizens from any natural disaster. The development part of the programme will be linked to the strengthening of all infrastructures and in particular environmental infrastructures, with the effective support of recycling, as 2020 will be for the Greek self-government year of real recycling. After all, in cooperation with five municipalities, we have already launched a pilot programme of return recycling, aimed at strengthening environmental awareness, but also at achieving specific targets for recycling, which extends to all regions. Unfortunately, the Civic Opposition and just before its spokesman from this Step falsely accuses the head of the Ministry of Interior of abolishing "PHILDIMO", blowing up the works that had been approved in the air. Ladies and gentlemen, what is abolished is the lack of transparency, not the projects. Projects entered into with a budget of almost EUR 1.3 billion had been secured only EUR 134 million, resulting from loans from the European Investment Bank, a contract between the two institutions ending in thirteen days and, indeed, on the clear condition that projects should have been completed within the contract. So the works were on the air for days of the previous government. And our commitment to the National Representation and to all citizens is that none of the projects will be lost because they will be included in the new development programme of the municipalities, but also in regional and sectoral programmes of the regions. No project is lost because the new programme of the Ministry of Interior has and will have concrete and secure resources. These are real projects, with real money, for real needs. In order to strengthen the role of self-government in the first months of 2020, we bring to Parliament the bill that clears the responsibilities between the two degrees of self-government and the state structure. Strengthening responsibilities will be accompanied by strengthening the resources and personnel to be moved from state power. This is an initiative that will seal the work and the course of self-government. My intention is to draw up this bill to follow the model of the law on the vote of Greeks abroad. We don't want to make a bill and bring it in one week before his vote for consultation. We are asking all the self-government bodies, from all over society, and obviously from all the parties in this House, to make their positions and proposals responsibly and to participate actively in this effort. We all have to assume our responsibilities. Even if this consensus cannot be expressed in parliamentary votes, we will certainly have succeeded in taking very seriously constructive views that may exist from all the political forces. The new budget is also an opportunity for our priorities and for changes in the public sector as a whole. In summary, the state is being dismantled by the implementation of the institution of civil servants, the interoperability of public services is being promoted, we are preparing the new law amending 2190 in order to speed up the recruitment process, we are doing the planning of recruitment on an annual basis in the public sector - we have continued the relevant programme of the previous leadership of the Ministry of the Interior - we are maintaining the relationship one by one and we are primarily covering the needs, which concern education, health and security of citizens, as well as the social policy programmes of the municipalities, with the top of the 'Help at Home' programme, which we ensure and upgrade overall. We connect the mobility system to recruitment. Also, in the field of citizenship, we have signed a programme contract with the National Transparency Authority, so that very soon - within the next four months - we will have a much more fair, quick and transparent system for the physicalisation and performance of Greek citizenship. In all areas of operation of the public sector, our objective is dual: transparency everywhere and production of work for citizens, that is, for those who, through the taxes they pay, maintain and demand for a public function, simple, friendly and useful to all. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the outset, the main objective of the government is the regeneration of Greece. This speeds up the actions of the Ministry of Interior. In order to achieve this, however, we must stimulate all the forces of Hellenism within and outside Greece. The vote for Greek foreigners is a message that needs to be embraced by all and especially by our compatriots throughout the earth. To this end, the Ministry of Interior shall proceed to an online information campaign. We change Greece, we strengthen municipalities and regions, we make cities safer and more citizen-friendly. Regardless of our ideological and political differences, there is something that unites us all. It is the patriotism of the Greeks, the homeland which is a constant reference and which today needs us increasingly united and not divided. Only united can we achieve the objective of the regeneration of Greece. And that's our debt to the new generation, to get Greece high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. We will close the seventeenth cycle with Mr. Dionyssis Hatzidakis from New Democracy. I, too, have to tell you a great 'bravo' and 'congratulations'. We've gone more than exceptionally well in times. After Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis, the former President of Parliament, will speak for twelve minutes. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finally ending the debate on the 2020 budget today. I will not go into the numbers that have already been mentioned by the ministers, the State Secretarys, the rapporteurs, the Members of Parliament from all sides. I will only make a small political analysis. Mr President, I will not need much time. I do not understand why in this Chamber we cannot admit anything. I mean, I'm looking at a micropsy. I very much respect Mr Chakalotos' efforts. I always tried to understand him, and I really admired him, because he spoke at this speed English, which although I knew English, I couldn't follow him. You are not admitting, are you not aware of the findings, the various research carried out, what does the world say outside? From where our economy was first, did you not realize that it went to a fifth subject? That a new creation air appeared? That the lenders, the troika, whom you renamed institutions, are now starting to take us seriously? Why is that? Because Mr. Mitsotakis did what he said. And we may not be in the Memorandum, but we are in a continuous and tough comitology. So he convinced them, people, and they tell him that things are changing, that we are creating. We're making cases so we can move forward. To be honest, I cannot say, Mr President of the House, that you have not tried too. But you said a lot and you did little. What can I tell you? May I remind you that “with a law and an article will the Memorandums be abolished”? And the world believed you. I didn't believe you. But my cousin believed you and voted for you. He's got her. He'll have a good time. To finish - why in this Chamber at some point we have to be more meaningful - to remind you of what the honourable Prime Minister said about Mr Mitsotakis? "You do not have the gift of communication, Mr. Mitsotakis, you cannot convince the people. And that's what's interesting to me, because you're an easy opponent." But did the time crew come and what did it prove? The one who, in your opinion, did not have the gift of communication proved diligent, horrific and effective. And he was going all over the planet. The Anglo-Saxons spoke English, who understood it, with the Germans speaking German, because he also owns the German language, and with the French he spoke French. We saw, in other words, a man who was inspired by confidence. So I wish you Merry Christmas and you realise that things have changed. I'm not saying it. The polls say so. My respect, Mr Chakalote, what did you say about Mr Varoufakis, the 'creative ambiguity'? I was looking, asking, asking, and I asked Mr Vorides and he said that 'Don't tell me such things, I don't understand them'. What does it mean? People listened to us and said, "What are these? New imports into the economy?’. That's what they've eaten you and these mistakes aren't going to be us. What we have, that's what we'll give the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u86	Merry Christmas to you, Mr. Hatzidakis. So the seventeenth cycle is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and two educational attendants from the 17th High School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, former President of Parliament, has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, history has written, whether or not, what political forces have led the country with their policies of bankruptcy. And it has written and what political power has made the country out of the Memorandum of Understanding. This, anyway, is recorded. From now on, however, it will also be a record of what political power - which has taken over the country's governance again, without changing policies, without having any other model, model and proposal, despite the same policies that have led to deadlocks and bankruptcy -, he praises that he has gained hegemony in developments. But we'll see that over time. I don't call it paperwork. I say this on the basis of examples and the debate that has been taking place here for so many days. First. There was no proposal put forward on the major issue of surpluses. We know what the previous government had said, what it was prepared to do. There was a denial. There was another program. There's another mood. The rulers fight something different. That was not the case. Two. On the crucial issue of incomes, wages, pensions, the past government, the SYRIZA government, in very difficult circumstances, gave 11% to the minimum wage, as much as the sum of the three increases they had made to Portugal in the previous two years, which had emerged earlier than the crisis. On this issue, in other words, with the best finances, which are now commemorating the country, there is no commitment to growth, to growth and to growth and to lower wages, pensions and elsewhere. He's staying in the unavoidable. Obviously, these aren't random. Some priorities and revenues go elsewhere. At the same time, quite arbitrary - and I have said before - you have come to the idea that growth, investment, etc. will be brought to bear by declaring or reducing the wages and guarantees of the labour force, while you do not recognize the reality that has been in fact. It has been shown that, by increasing the guarantees for labour, the possibility of contracts and, above all, the increase in incomes, there can really be a resurgence of consumption, demand and development. It is also clear that you have not tabled - because you have put the development policy, the tax, the budget, today - a whole programme, a red line, which crosses this overall policy's deposit, beyond the ideology, as we, the previous one, say. In other words, the insistence that if we "close an eye" to everyone that investment and profitability are much easier, this will automatically bring growth, etc. It was submitted by the SYRIZA government to the institutions and was binding on the country for the first time on a detailed proposal. If I remember correctly, it was more than seventy pages, with prioritizations, with specific sectors of the economy, with objectives, medium-term commitments, etc. It is clear, therefore, that it is only possible to talk about the revelations, one would say, of the two strategies, of the two policies and, I dare to say, of the two major poles, which have emerged from the recent national elections. That is to say, the deeply conservative pole and the progressive pole, which now define, through their confrontation in Parliament, in Parliament, but also within the people, in society, the future of this country, elsewhere with compositions, consents, elsewhere - in most - with deep disagreements and differences, which are already evolving within this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the issue of the economy and the budget that we are discussing, where these two poles form their proposals for the future of the country after the ten-year deepest crisis. It is clear that within the governing party, but also with acts, works and omissions, it revives - and even aggressively sometimes - a bisecting logic on critical issues, which both worldwide and for the country are of particular importance. We know there's a bucket worldwide, someone would say, on four central issues. Great inequalities created by current policy, in the current phase of globalisation, climate crisis, climate change, refugee - immigration, rights. In this connection, a sequence is developed, because it obviously affects all of these and feedback, different strategies and perceptions. So in our country we are dealing with issues that are very critical and around which there is a serious risk and I would like to put them. Yesterday I had a double experience: In the morning I was invited to welcome to the Greek Council of Refugees, which completed thirty years of excellent action and involving all the organisations - rightful, etc. the institutions which we know and are advisors to the state and elsewhere - as the two-day World Conference on Refugees took place at the same time - in Geneva. Today is International Immigrant Day. I am sorry that today, contrary to the four previous years, we do not welcome, as parliament, unaccompanied refugees and organisations dealing with them, with the present and the entire state leadership of the country, which was a sample and a signal and outward to deal with this issue. That is what we call it in parentheses. I'm not giving him any further dimension. I'm just writing it down. So yesterday I had this experience in the morning and had the experience of the debate that has evolved with Mr Chrysochide, the Minister of Civil Protection, within the House. Apocalypse. On the first issue - representatives were present, and I would say in fact most of the wings or almost all of the wings and organisations etc. - I want to tell you right away that we cannot play with views that lead - there was a debate here, and Mr Grady, the High Commissioner - in strategies to make life unscathed for refugees and immigrants, so that we can give a sign of preventing the entry of flows into the country. This is an extremely dangerous strategy. We saw yesterday a ruler of local government on an island of the Aegean Sea, himself going out to the squares and photographed by prosecuting and pushing migrants and refugees. We are prepared to join - and you know that, we have spoken together in detail on these issues - for example in order to move forward the 'ESTIA' programme, which was positive and must be extended to the continental body for migrants and refugees and to convince together, because we also need to convince the local communities and the local authorities, who are 80% of your responsibilities. We are prepared to help at international level - and this has been done by the President of the party and former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, and it has been done in other respects, as far as I know, Mrs Gennamas to the Socialists and elsewhere - to join with the Government, so that at last in the European Union these leaderships which, for all the rest of the world, know to put rules and to keep them at a scary cost for our societies - we were an excellent negative example - are taking decisions on the crucial issue, namely the responsibility for the absorption, incorporation into the European Union and then in the international treaties to deal with the great refugee-migration flows, which we all know is a matter that will be sealed throughout the 21st century. We know that. We don't play between us that's something that can be closed. We are prepared to help many things that have been made politically on our part and to which you are coming to the public, to the official, to your international forum. We are neither going to address this issue nor - and you see this - the question of external relations with Turkey, the so-called national issues, etc. a policy of controversy, a policy of structural objection to what you are doing. We are making a very strict criticism of what you are not doing, of what we consider to be incomplete, inefficient policies. Most of all, however, we are criticising you - and I am doing so at the moment - that major issues which have an entirely international dimension, namely a Euro-Turkish, for example, the question of the European Union's borders, which are the eastern borders of our country and above Bulgaria, but also the issue of the refugee - immigration and Turkey's declarations - critically, that is to say, issues that are serious, internalising them, bringing them in and creating a situation which leads, I repeat, to strategies - and the law that you have brought in and with this unacceptable general staff, which all the forces of counter-population have questioned, in relation to the protection of the borders - the situation in which we are searching - I want to say so, in order to get together - internal enemy. That's too dangerous. It concerns, first of all, immigrants and refugees. Always like this is how work starts, historically if someone gets it. When it is complemented by these phenomena - on a daily basis now unfortunately - which have been on the Internet - Mr Tsakalotos referred to earlier -, that is to say, when we see this authoritarianism and repression of some parts, whether they are just persons or just self-determination powers - there have always been these, for decades now, we all know that they are being seized and we know it perfectly, not just well and not just from the road, we have been heads of this ministry and for four and a half years, when these atrocious images come to the surface. Be careful, and we must all be careful, too. We have the image of a citizen of a house, a house of a hood, an early morning, down the street, naked, as he also had his son denounced them, and his wife - because they did not allow them, without a licensed prosecutor - to prevent them, he says, they did not make it easier - for the police forces to go through the next building to go out three who were sleeping in a occupied building. This is not a terrorist organisation that should perhaps be dealt with in some ways, which the police know operationally or do not know from what it looks like. This image is not random. It's for signalling. They are like some of the elected - well or badly elected people elected - your MPs, who have campaigned for election - if possible! - or at 6: 00 a.m. by going to Exarchia and saying "we are here" and behind some "forced" people who drank sophomore in the morning or with some armed NSAMs and special forces with guns - which are to be used, beating wood, never used!, in country conflicts out - they were campaigning, they took cards out with them! We are aware, with the current refugee - immigration issue, with the current ten-year crisis in the country, of the plight of de facto in a society that is going to stand up again, that it is not possible to carry out these 'Far West' policies - let me say - which set different dates and say that they will be closed etc. I asked a question to the Minister for Civil Protection yesterday. He answered all other questions by opening up a Vendal issue which he then heard. He didn't answer the key question. Five years the Greek capital accepts four to six million tourists annually. There were no foreign countries internationally, no directives, no norm for any kind of risk to people who come here for one, two or five days. And you know very well what sensitivity there is for the safety of citizens. Is that what he's gonna say there are no problems, there are no cases of lawlessness, other issues? Obviously, they exist, as they always existed and were treated or treated less well. However, it has nothing to do with generalised trade in fear, the propaganda of terror, which is conducted in some respects, unfortunately, by some trade unionists who have left their role completely. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vorides - with whom we have always had discussions here in the last seven years, at least serious and indeed quite ideological - raised a question of hegemony. He's right. In other words, the neo-conservative concept after ten years, in a society that has been through, has gained a degree of acceptance and hegemony, but at the same time I would say that - and you know it - with a mockery and populism, and with the propaganda that has been in the media that has helped to bring about such a climate in Greek society. We are facing the challenge as a whole. It is clear that the creation, establishment of the progressive pole - with the widest possible partnership and different politically progressive, central, socialist, communist, left-wing radical forces - on the level of society, first of all - because this is already the case, the world is reacting and coming out on the road - has an obligation and a duty - we have also received a mandate - to shape the alternative proposal and the programme opposition in terms of arguments, but also in terms of the presence and encouragement of society, the mass movements and the will of the world to breathe, for a progressive Greece after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. The general rapporteurs will now be speaking. The first is Mr Manosos Voloudakis from the New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to say a few words to Mr Voutsi, who just came from Stephen Voutsi. Mr Voutsi, although it is positive that you recognise that the climate has changed in society, you know, this is not the result of an ideological debate like those you are used to on the Left. It's a return to what the normal state of Greek society is. The Greek society, the many people in Greece, have been convinced of the kind that surpass what would be termed "ideology", which is foreign to this model that you have tried to impose for four and a half years. Only the extreme conditions of the crisis have made the many people "do the wrong eyes" in the crazy ideas - I'm sorry about the term, but I can't say it differently - which prevailed for some time, which were promoted before 2015. Only the extreme conditions of the crisis have made this possible and these conditions will not exist again, with a coordinated effort from all of us. Now the budget debate is almost complete. I feel the need to make a recapitulation of some of the issues raised by the Opposition, because your illusions - on your own condition - before 2015, have succeeded a number of errors today. I want very briefly to say what I am talking about. I shall summarise your misguided criticisms, the false arguments you put forward. We came out of the memorials on SYRIZA. Indeed, the programme is technically closed. This is reflected in the report and you've made it a flag. But what people understand when they say 'we are or are not in a memorandum' is something different. The essence of the matter, ladies and gentlemen, is that at the moment our country, we do not want - we do not want, is bound to your own agreements, ladies and gentlemen, by 2060. That's what we're fighting for. The achievements of your period, which you are presenting to us, are in fact the dynamic reaction of the Greek society and economy that has remained alive despite your experiments and has slowly re-entered on the road you violently interrupted in 2015. In 2014 this natural reaction had already begun. It was interrupted by your own criminal experiments and handling and slowly, indeed, even in your own years, this was beginning to improve. You will not, however, perform this in your own actions. The fact that you have been late to face - and distorted - a part of the reality is not your great achievement. Secondly, you have not negotiated the reduction of surpluses, you tell us. It has already been answered that the Prime Minister never spoke of reducing surpluses before 2021 and that is not because we like them as they are. The surpluses are in place. The surpluses have been agreed as agreed by you, because the creditors are assured that they will get their money back, that the debt will be paid. So, in order to change the surplus, we must convince them that the debt will be repaid earlier. Now it's starting to happen. Now in the evaluation report there is already a reduction in the time at which the debt reaches 100% of GDP. The third major error category is: the costs of various policy categories are reduced. The unexplained Right cuts one another, cuts the other, cuts the policies that make it easier for the people. First of all, the total public expenditure is increasing. This year's budget, compared with last year, has EUR 772 million more, i.e. more public spending. Yes, but you'll tell me now or you'll try to create those who hear the impression that the analgesic right takes the costs from where the people benefit and take them elsewhere. Well, let us look at the areas that are primarily those relating to the weaker financial sectors. Social security bodies have increased costs of EUR 1.1 billion. Preferential expenditure also increases EUR 230 billion. There is a small trick that you are doing - I want to believe not consciously - in terms of benefits and I see that it has been believed by a lot of people. You say that pre-school benefits are being cut in the budget this year compared with last year. They're not falling. Last year had both months of 2018 and you know it. So, by making this small weighting, the 2020 budget for benefits is exactly the same as that for 2019, i.e. EUR 740 million. The next major mistake is this: the middle-class of tax relief and your other policies is no use. Now the pain in the middle class has caught you! Let us see two - three points just how much the middle-class benefits. We had, first of all, the extension of the relief of the ENPIA. It has been discussed extensively. I will not say more for one main reason, because the world has already seen these in its pocket and they know how many and who have benefited. Let us not say, let them judge themselves. But let us talk about what has to do with the future. For the tax rates, you say that again they have a class mark that benefits some elite, as you see it. You are omissioning, of course, that the tax rate most reduced is that of the first step, of the lowest income, which even goes in the middle class, because the import rate is dragged by each one with him whatever income he has. But where the greatest attempt is being made to mislead tax is the issue of reducing corporate tax rates. This reduction from 28% to 24% at your own reading concerns the minority of profitable enterprises. At the time of the recommendation by our trustworthy colleague, the SYRIZA general rapporteur, it involved 40% of enterprises. In the course of the debate - not by you, by other colleagues - it became 2.5%, because only they have profits, about 40%, says Mrs Papanatsiou - rightly so it is only about them. But that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. Anyone who has a business and keeps it - I want to say keeps it alive, open - hopes it will gain. Maybe last year he's damaged, but he's keeping the business, because next year, he's waiting for profits. He'll see the benefit. If he expected that every year he would be damaged, he would just shut it down. So what you're saying is not true. The reduction in tax rates applies to all enterprises, including small businesses. There too, because it is small businesses that have drowned throughout this period, their importance is much greater. Here we have another very big mistake compared to the middle class, from which you tend to disappear for some reason freelance professionals. Do you know what it means to the free professional who has no tax free, a 13% reduction in the import tax rate, where they rank, where most of the free traders are taxed? It's 1,300 euros a year! Go tell these free professionals of 10,000 euros a year that they didn't benefit, because 1,300 euros are not enough to see what they're going to tell you. Mrs Ahtsilgos presented some tables with the evolution of the average wage in Greece. Of course, if someone sums up the changes that Mrs Ahtsioglou presented in this same table throughout the period of SYRIZA governance up to the figures of 2019 available, it has no impact. However, Mrs Ahtsoglou says that in 2018 there was an improvement of 1%, because then we made a change in collective agreements. However, in 2019, which is your period again, this trend is at first reversed. It is-0.1% compared to 2018, again reduction. Why? Because it is quite simply demonstrated that wages are not primarily a result of what is being done with legislation, but are mainly a result of what is being done in the real economy. The world of work, which you often invoke, has nothing to do with the person to whom you are addressing. You are addressing the trade unions' minority. And as far as your relationship with the world of work is concerned, it appeared from what your stance - not to be paradoxical - in the debate and vote of the bill on the vote of Greeks abroad was. These are the world of work, these are the people who have been undone to go to work, and they have tried to limit as much as possible the possibility of voting, because you know that it is a different philosophy from yours. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Tsakalotos has mentioned to us - and I thank you, Mr President, for the slight tolerance - the data of the international economy and the negative, anaemic development of investment worldwide. Right. But, Mr Tsakalote, this is a broader conversation that has to do with and with elements that are escaping from the current economic analysis. We in Greece in recent years have spent half the year in the crisis as a percentage of GDP in relation to Europe, so that we do not go away. We've got half of what others have. So, yes, we do need to see our policy differently and do our utmost to attract investment. That is what makes labour productivity low and that is why wages are indeed low. All this, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, is not mistakes that have arisen from the economic analysis of the data. In fact they have arisen from your political confusion. You have on the one hand your old self, your hard core and on the other, your new electoral base, limited compared to 2015, but electoral base far greater than your old hard core. The confusion that is reflected in your positions here is that the positions you have in your hearts and minds have nothing to do with what mentality, ideology, perhaps someone else would say, of the great majority of Greek citizens. The vast majority of Greek citizens, the great world, whether you tell them "medium-class" or sum up the income-lower classes, has the model of propensity, of personal, family-promotion. These people want to go forward themselves and their children, want to live in a society that is progressing, wanting their children to go to universities and schools normally, be able to rely on their own powers to live a better tomorrow than yesterday. This does not match your ideology, with your ideological model, i.e. the model of the state that taxes to share benefits to people who expect allowances and identify their lives and progress with them. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the major difference you have today in relation to your past. And from the point of view of your argument, you cannot deal with it because, as I said at the outset in reply to Mr. Voutsis, the Greeks have heard your rhetoric only in very specific conditions and they do not hear it again, because now we have a political and economic situation that allows us to discuss this budget that gives a long-standing prospect of exiting from the crisis, based on the liberation of the productive forces of the country, based on the forces of the Greeks, their creativity, their labourability, their faith in their homeland. And this is our only guarantee for prosperity, but also for a strong Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, fifty-one students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st High School of Nafplio (First Chamber). The House welcomes you and wishes good holidays to you and your families. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor for ten minutes from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the days of the budget debate there is an attempt by the government to present its social person and then show its consistency with its announcements. However, what we stressed at the meeting is that this budget is submitted to a different economic and social environment, an environment that its terms have been shaped since August 2018. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, in this environment your plan will be judged. Whether you deny the outcome of August 2018 or not, you will be judged for your own made and your own promises. What has been apparent from the debate over the last few days is two confrontational plans of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, which the rapporteur of the New Democracy also mentioned. These are two projects that conflict in the field of work, health, education, social security and social progress. By depositing the budget, your lies end. Now you plan, you implement. Our great difference, ladies and gentlemen, lies in the above concepts, in short, in the basic concepts of the social state and social progress. But what are you, ladies and gentlemen, doing in these areas? You reduce the cost of care, reduce the cost of medicine, reduce the cost of the student's writings and, at the same time, do not go ahead with recruiting five thousand two hundred and fifty people in education, which we had prepared, nor with two and a half thousand hirings in health. At the same time, you are making indirect wage reductions with the provisions for the deregulation of collective agreements for summer and September. At the same time, you are forgetting your announcement of an increase in the minimum wage in line with the growth of GDP, as you said in the election. I want to add something more here. You could have additional positive measures of 1.8 billion for permanent relief or social benefits if you went ahead with the SYRIZA plan to reduce the primary surplus target from 3.5% to 2.5%, on the basis of the special reserve we inherited you to 37 billion or anyway in any other way you wanted and you would consider it more important, since the economy is moving better. Still, you didn't do it. Well, you said it and you didn't. Let us also talk a little bit about the special reserve, which Mr Skulakakis, yesterday, is not here today - he told us about what he did not need. I read: "The completion of the Greek economy's third economic adjustment programme last year following the implementation of the medium-term debt relief measures and the strengthening of the cash available security reserves - cash buffer - created favourable conditions for the uninterrupted financing of the Greek State through the markets". Preliminary draft state budget, page 47. I guess the Deputy Minister for Finance, in charge of budgetary policy, has not even read the draft budget, which he has signed. Now let's go see five points where it's worth some time. Firstly, the Minister of Finance mentioned a dialect with the positive tax arrangements included in the budget. Mr. Secretary, to help you tell the whole truth, to add another five, to the reduction of the taxation of companies investing in immovable property, to the reduction of the taxation of portfolio investment funds, to the reduction of the taxation of investment property funds, to the reduction of the taxation of corporate bonds holders, to the exemption of the special tax on real estate, to the number of investment companies, including immovable property used by shipping companies. Why didn't you say that, Mr. Undersecretary? Are they not socially just measures, or are you not so proud of these provisions, or are they spoiling your government's social profile? Oh, no. It is not fair or developmental, because the gap from the capital tax will be paid for by the citizens. These lost potential revenues will be borne by natural persons. Secondly, the second Minister for Finance, in reply to the increase in revenues to natural persons and the corresponding reduction in the expected revenues from legal revenues, said that the answer is only a word: Development. We are pleased to admit that you are dreaming of a growth by taxing capital and by substituting this burden on employees, farmers and pensioners. That's what you did both in 2010-2014 and before. You know that game well. Internal devaluation and neoliberalism. That's what it's called. I'm saying that to remind you. The third issue is about the heating allowance. Mr. Undersecretary, we read the budget well and from what you said, there is no provision for a budget, because it was given earlier this year in 2019 by the overrun of SYRIZA. If this is the case, should you not provide a envelope in the 2020 budget for 2021? Are you going to keep giving it up, or was it this year for the last time? In any case, since you are not calculating the amount in the 2020 budget, you should tell the beneficiaries the truth, namely that with the money received this year they will be invited to meet the heating requirements for two whole winters until it reaches 2021 that will get the next heating allowance. It would be advisable to consult and give an answer to the people who deserve it. Fourthly, the Secretary-General responsible for budgetary policy replied on the equivalent of transport. He just chose to answer a question that suited him. Again, we would like to make a clear statement, wherever it is in the budget. How much is the amount for the transport equivalent? Fifth theme: the rapporteur of the New Democracy has adopted the argument of BSE for the low productivity of labour in Greece and its wage relationship. Unfortunately, this leads to a further reduction in wages, ladies and gentlemen, in other words, to what the BSE question asks you to do. You said it exactly as BSE said in its last monthly bulletin. Also, Mr rapporteur of the New Democracy, you said that it is a problem for low productivity that the proportion of unskilled immigrants is unskilled. Based on what studies do you say, gentlemen of the government? We know that a basic principle of social policy is integration. You only have to demonstrate in this regard are extremist statements, evacuations of areas living in migrants and militarisation of the management of refugee - immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems on the labour market have to do with the insecurity and deregulation of contract terms. This is illustrated by all studies. The rest is unworthy of comment. We have said so many times and we will not get tired of saying so: there is no development unless it is socially fair, with the protection of workers, with the protection of wages, with the support of research and education resources, with the protection of the environment and with the strengthening of healthy entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, despite your communication rhetoric to reduce taxes and alleviate citizens, most of your defects are awarded to a few, and for many, your budget is austerity-spirited. I have told you before: The first budget you are tabling as a government after the end of the memoranda turns the look out of society, breaks one down to one of your election announcements, is not social, is not developmental and is certainly not pioneering. It's like an oldly tested recipe that no country's citizen wants to try again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u94	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u95	I'm going to make a clarification regarding the heating allowance. The 2020 heating allowance is, as we all know, given in 2019. It will cover at least 75-78 million - that is our picture - because they are getting much more and they are getting the same, since they are living in the same area, because everyone has the same need for cold or hot, whether they have money to spend on oil or not. Last year those who had no money to spend on oil took 100 and 150 euros. And 50 euros came to them because they didn't have enough money to spend. For the period 2020-2021 they will receive it in January 2021. If we were to follow SYRIZA's policy, what he did in previous years, this year would take it February and June 2020 and the 2020-2021 allowance would take it February 2021 and June 2021. I therefore think that the relevant protests are unnecessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u96	You didn't tell us about the transport equivalent, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u97	The transport equivalent you didn't mention. You didn't tell us anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u98	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u99	We are indignant, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u100	I didn't say no, Mr. Igoumenides. What can we do? You can't talk. I know you're angry. What can I tell you? They'll have to answer after the minister. It can't be done. Mr. George Zavvos has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget presented by the government illustrates, for the first time, a genuine country's development perspective for five years. This perspective is based on three main axes. Firstly, it is the settlement of complex budgetary problems. Secondly, the forward structural reforms. Thirdly, the dynamic relaunch of the banking sector, which we believe will play a leading role in providing liquidity to the real economy. We are well aware that without a stable and competitive banking system there cannot be growth and without growth the banking sector cannot be activated. That is why, when the new government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over, the top of the agenda was one of the most important and at the same time one of the most acute problems facing the country in recent years. The big mountain of red loans. Within less than five months, we designed in cooperation with all the actors of the domestic banking system and in constant contact with the European Central Bank and legislated last week the project 'HRAKLIS'. HERAKLIS is a systemic and innovative solution aimed at reducing non-performing loans by up to EUR 300,000,000,000, i.e. about 40% of the existing volume of non-performing loans. This solution is supported by the entire Greek banking sector. The European partners, the European institutions and the international investment community. This is a tangible example of the reform shock that the Prime Minister has been calling for election. The reduction in the weight of banks from red loans through the "HRAKLE" law we believe will make a decisive contribution to the development orbit created by the forward reforms that were at the top of the government agenda. HERAKLIS will not only relieve the banking system of the large volume of red loans, but also release funds that will be invested in the real economy. It is, that is, the capital for the investor approach, as it gives them the opportunity to get better acquainted with the Greek economy and the opportunities it offers. HERAKLIS aims to develop the Greek economy through the attraction of investments. It shows, however, that the government has a strategy. It has a plan for the most important problems faced by the Greek economy. It is, as I said, a strategic approach to international investors, who see the country as having political stability, economic programme and, above all, development perspective. It aims to strengthen the financial stability and capital position of banks. It aims to provide liquidity from the banks, from the Greek citizen, from small and medium-sized enterprises, from industry, also to upgrade the country's credit capacity in a short time, thus further strengthening its credibility. But most importantly, it also has a side of social justice. Because Heraklis - and this is something we must not forget - provides for mechanisms which, on the one hand, force the banks to pursue even further strategic misappropriations and, on the other, establishes a legal framework for the management of red loans which enables them to diversify the debtors so that consistent borrowers who offer a recovery guarantee can find a more favourable solution. At a time of explosive bond market development and at the same time negative interest rates, HARAKLIS offers a very attractive bond for international investors. That is how we believe with all this mechanism that there will be the possibility of financing the real economy. Mr President, let me tell you what is not 'HERAKLIS'. ‘HERAKEL’ does not refer to the sale of loans in funds. It is not some form of recapitalisation. It does not change to a minimum the position of the borrower and his rights. It does not change the protection of the borrower, under the existing legal framework. It does not change the legal framework for the protection of first residence. Let us not forget that after five years of crisis, stagnation, toxic apnea, the government aspires with a bold but also a shallow plan to relaunch the financial sector. The banking sector must and will be the driving vehicle for the absorption and European funds of the multiannual financial framework currently under discussion in the European Union and will be settled in the next few months so that we can have a successful pool of public and private investment for the development of the Greek economy. However, Mr President, HERAKLIS does not go alone. It is accompanied by a major reform proposed by the government in January and it is mainly on the capital market and the stock market. Because we have all recently lived through the great scandals that have shaken the Greek economy, the Greek Stock Exchange, the Greek capital market, and have blackened the image of Greece abroad. That is why we are bringing these reforms, which will in particular be aimed at the full institutional armour of the Securities and Markets Committee, with what is needed by powers and what is required by penalties. We aim, above all, to strengthen corporate governance, the company's relations with shareholders, investors and the company's internal functioning. At the same time - and I do not think it is a disgrace, as one has said before - the Government has brought with courageous amendments and reductions in taxation that support the Securities and Exchange Committee. Because after the removal of the restrictions on the movement of capital, which the government has achieved, all those incentives must be given so that we can get the attraction of companies to the Greek Stock Exchange and stop seeing companies leave. Alongside this context, the government in this bill will, in the next few days, create provisions relating to the green financing of the banking sector, which concerns the stock market and the capital markets. These are major innovations, which are at the top of the government agenda and are in line with the wider European efforts currently being made for sustainable and green development. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the new development budget and the government's strategy for the relaunch of the financial sector are realistically part of a government's plan to reinstate Greece after five years at the heart of all those political, economic and social developments that the European Union decides and will affect in the coming years. In other words, in the perspective of the European Banking Union and its integration, in the perspective of the Union of the European Securities and Markets, in sustainable development and, in particular, in the transition to the digital economy. All that this budget opens are crucial parameters for the development dimension. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the budget tabled by the Greek Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u102	Thank you too, Minister. I should like to welcome the former President of the House, Mr. Philip Petsalnico. Obviously, he came to listen to Mr. Scandalidis or Mr. Kegeroglu, who just entered a café? Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, it is our pleasure and we have found the opportunity to show it with meanings. Be well. Minister, a few days ago, here in the Chamber, with a slightly different composition - but not to provoke - we discussed the draft 'HERAKLIS' to which you made a reference. As far as his technical aspects are concerned, we have had the opportunity to exchange arguments and indeed in a creative context. When the perspective from which a politician sees a topic is too technical - and the plan 'HERAKLIS' is such a case, that is why we have heard a specialist, such as you, speaking - in a way that we trust the person who knows more about any technical problems we have. You talked to us about 12 billion. Your Members were calling - and not unfairly - that this is not about public money, but about guarantees not about requirements, but about bonds. That's right. We read today that there are objections to these public guarantees by SSM. We read that these guarantees are asking you to be cash - and I challenge you to tell us what they mean - or bonds of the Greek State at 120% of the nominal price and thus to provide these guarantees. In other words, they don't accept your proposals and it seems from the news report that you're in discussion. Is that correct after the vote from the House? 'Cause you got some trust from the National Representation. It doesn't matter who voted and who didn't. We did not vote not because we rejected the project, but because our point of view refers mainly to borrowers. Because, yes, a lot of those who don't pay are strategic bad payers. In fact, yesterday I said - you were not here - that the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs should be obliged to cause the National Representation to be informed that requirements management companies can and can identify strategic bad payers and that banks could not do so for so many years. So we had another approach and did not vote. The technical side could not question it. Now the reality itself comes to put it in doubt. Questions: What raises doubts? My most specific question is this: are these really SSM objections and how do you deal with them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u104	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u105	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, what you have read possibly relates to a post which, I would say, is a rumour that is moving. At the moment, what we know is that SSM and all the European institutions have fully supported and backed up...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u107	The ECB and the Committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u108	Yes, of course the ECB fully supports it. And don't forget that SSM is a European supervisor. They fully support the Greek Government's bill, and that was the conclusion yesterday of the Prime Minister's discussions with Mrs Lagard. I wanted to remind you of something else. On the one hand the European Commission, the Commission, Mrs Westager, not only adopted and announced in her main reason the 'HRAKLIS' project on 10 October, but SSM himself almost quasi-minorized Greek banks to join the 'HRAKLIS' project, looking at the most important solution for the crucial problem of red loans. Do not forget that the Greek State's guarantee is a guarantee that applies and no one has put it in doubt. It is also, as I said last time, about the more stable guarantees. Why? Because the guarantee is given to the most stable part of the securitisation transaction that is the senior trache. Secondly, it is given, after 50 plus one of mezzanine and junior have been sold. It shall be given after it has been costed within the supply of any, even to an infinite extent, risk of such a guarantee being deducted. So there is no such doubt. I want to remind you, too, of something else. Those who voted for the law - you weren't one of them - did it properly and with full knowledge of speech. There's a process. In the coming months, the banks will have to prepare the implementation packages. These packages should be valued. These packages should be submitted to the Ministry of Finance, to the committee responsible, and after obtaining the approval of the guarantee, they will then go to the European supervisor, who will then assess the issue, namely the need or not of any form of capital adequacy. Obviously, the issue, the better and more favourable regulation, is zero-weighted. In other words, when the time comes - in five, six months - the supervisor will take on the individual proposal of each bank, taking into account, as the case law of the European Court of Justice says, all the relevant circumstances, in order to give what we hope, the zero weight in this package. I would therefore like to say that you have no doubt that the guarantees given by the Greek Government at the moment are complete are clear. And don't forget, it is a government which, because of this great change that has taken place in international markets, has made it possible to activate the HERAKLIS project and is based not on the Greek taxpayer but on the markets, and on the other hand has the possibility of exiting and at any time access to the capital markets to the cheapest amount.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Constantine Scandalidis has the floor for ten minutes from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, when the Committee on Budgets met, we lived up to the six months confrontation. SYRIZA recruits the comparison of Alexis Tsipras's last semester against the second semester of Antonis Samaras, and the New Democracy resents the comparison of the first semester of Kyriakos Mitsotakis against Alexis Tsipras' first semester of Alexis Tsipras. Yesterday we came to the controversy who led to the crisis and who handled it better. Numbers are given for this. I think of a comparison, because I was present last year in the budget. I had heard Mr Stavoura, who was the rapporteur of the New Democracy as opposition to the SYRIZA government, and had mentioned ten points and coloured that budget in black colours. The same ten points, if you look at them in fact, are now repeated as the government's positions in this budget. This has made me say with great persuasiveness, if you want, that it is the same economic policy, that it is the same objectives, the same budget, the same numbers, with slight variations. So we do not monitor a controversy about the country's development prospects, and we have to listen to an ideological controversy, rather of a theoretical nature, about the role of the middle class, about who best serves the interests of them or the others, because the figures do not bear serious criticism. Let us take, for example, the budgetary gap, the achievement of the objectives of the state budget. I don't know if you understood it well, but you agree that you're partners in the bleeding of 7 billion, which is the same this year and year. You disagree with some millions of benefits on a theoretical basis. You are confusing who returns most to the minimums you give of what you have taken, instead of talking about permanent support measures, such as what we systematically propose and submit with draft laws. In other words, the difference between our own policy and the commonly adopted policy is huge, because one is fragmentary, and the other is a policy which creates structures which create a social state which creates a different development perspective for the country. So yesterday this debate was culminated in the confrontation between the government and the former SYRIZA Minister of Finance with the question: Who led the country to the crisis? Well, I will tell you today our opinion of who led the country to the crisis. The common anti-monstrous struggle SYRIZA - New Democracy relied on the unequivocal complaint that the memorandum brought the crisis. It happened exactly the opposite: the crisis brought the Memorandum. The crisis led to New Democracy's reckless and foreign policy starting with the census and reaching derailment, fivefold, deficit and almost doubled debt. Yesterday, the counterfeiting of this reality, about the deficit, for example, was supposed to have been lower than the European Union's average, when all international organisations and European institutions, not only then, but also to date, have made it quite clear that when the European Parliament's report in 2013, but also Mr Juncker's position recently, they confessed relentlessly to that policy of the New Democracy Government, which ultimately led to derailment. I would like to remind you that in 2004 we delivered an economy to grow at high pace, to lead year after year to a constant rise in living standards, shielded with EMU and the euro and ratified with Olympiad. It is clear that what led to the crisis was that policy. And honestly, it makes me a great impression that these very simple things are today trying to rewrite history from the beginning. Thirdly, the debate in this House has shown that confrontation for yesterday is a one-way road, because there is no new development plan for today and tomorrow in the country. There is no new plan, not for quantitative objectives and macroeconomic objectives, but for the real terms and conditions of restructuring the model and reversal of the development process, as we all say we need absolutely at this time. This absence crosses all the lines of the state budget: numericality, percentage resurrects, endless codes, conventional and over-estimating forecasts, do not constitute a new economic policy, much more unintegrated and demarcate any direct or medium-term development plan. A new government - I think it should first of all, since politics is changing, we are entering a new political map, we have a new era - should bring its own development plan, not only its long-term but also its medium-term objectives, which in itself incorporates the first step of change, which is its development policy for 2020. Is that going through the budget lines? Not even described in the rapporteur's report. I must say that they give rise to the arguments put forward on both sides by confessing to the middle class, which the New Democracy adopts, offers some horizontal tax relief, but it fails to link them to investment and jobs, as well as to the development plan, and SYRIZA has literally weakened it and abandoned it, through a policy of unequal class analysis and placement, today with alkalis trying to adopt it, for electoral purposes. All this is very small for our time and shows parties that have no horizon tomorrow, but only look at yesterday and use yesterday to justify their policies. We, in all tons, have said that it needed a completely different budget, which has a clear and obvious vision, its new vision, which says that the country's development process will be reversed, how the development shock that it needs will be caused cannot be said that I want investment and, at the same time, why you remember that in 2004, when the New Democracy government took over, its central motto was the re-establishment of the state. Which state was re-established from 2004 until 2009 that was really a state overloaded with hundreds of thousands of assignments and did not change any of what was being proclaimed before? We say that another budget was needed, with another structure, by another procedure, with other objectives, with regional joint action. There is no regional budget. There is no social budget, strong, capable of reconstructing on a new basis - as needed - the social state. And there is no policy to show that we have entered another era. I think that you owed this, it was your election commitment and we do not see it in any of the lines around all the budget lines. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude with a more general comment on the country's progress. Even Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself recently, had to admit that in 2004 the country was at the best of its modern history. In 2004 - I want to remind you - geopolitical, institutional, economic, we have delivered a strong Greece to the centre of European developments, a country with new and large infrastructure, with new strategic plans that led to the accession of Cyprus and the Helsinki Agreement. An historic opportunity was then lost, to escalate this strategy and to bring new achievements and today to change - because it needs to be changed - to the extent that the correlations and forces in the region are changing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u111	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u112	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is no accident in these days that an article by the former Prime Minister has come to power on the agenda of political life - and in view of the latest critical national developments - the need for a national strategy. And there, when the debate reaches the wider themes and the national and development perspectives of the place, it is clear that our proliferation is back at the centre and in the forefront of developments. And then the controversies are made and exterior to the other strands, because exactly the same conception, the same idea, the same objective, the same vision, the same strategy that has always been at the heart of our own policy, because it is mobilised by it and historical memory. Here I say to you a simple question to the people, to the citizens: with whom has he identified social change, his well-being days, his social and individual progress, his sense of security, democracy and dignity, the pride of his country's presence at European and global level? His answer can interpret both the enthusiasm of enemies and friends deeply from the root and endurance, despite the pillaging attempted for so long. We are - and we will be - present and fighting for the people and the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Theodoros Karaoglou, Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, responsible for Macedonia - Thrace. Get Mr. Villiardos ready from Greek Solution and Mr. Arsenis from Mera25. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget marks the country's return to normality, it sends out a message of fiscal stability and development priorities, offering hope and breath to hundreds of thousands of households, who have been hard tested in the difficult years of the crisis. At the same time, it shows that Greece recovers its economic sovereignty. This is particularly important, because the stronger we become as a country, the more threats will be lost from our neighbours. This is something I can tell you from experience, because I have the honour of taking the lead in one of the most sensitive government portfolios, that of Macedonia and Thrace, and of living in an area that needs special attention and increased readiness. In the points that have to be made, in relation to the budget, there is a clear reduction in the tax burden from the back of our compatriots. For the first time, after ten years, Greek government has tabled a budget that provides for a reduction of EUR 1.2 billion, a strong growth of 2.8% and a primary surplus of 3.56% of GDP. In short, tonight with our vote, we end the overtaxation of the Greeks and the deinvestment climate of the period 2015-2018. We reduce the income input rate to 9%, we increase the tax-free limit for each child, we reduce the insurance contributions of full-time workers, we reduce the income tax on legal persons from 28% to 24% for the use of 2019. We are also reducing the tax on dividends to be distributed, namely in 2020, from 10% to 5%. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that in the new year employees, pensioners, households, farmers, free traders will pay less taxes. As far as investment is concerned, the gross fixed capital formation reflecting the progress of investment in the country will be strengthened at a rate of 13.4%. In 2019, the relative index was only 8.8% and in 2018, it was at -12.2%. More investment, we all know, means more jobs. And this is translated into a decline in unemployment of 15.6% in 2020 from 17.4% to 2019. In other words, we are talking about the creation of 100 000 new jobs. A hundred thousand of our compatriots will return to the labour market. This is our great goal both in the Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace, in the historical building of the Ministry, in the commandary, where we correct failures of previous years, we join the productive forces of Northern Greece and we win day after day the great bet of the essential equal development of every county of our territorial responsibility. Yesterday afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I welcomed to my office a delegation from an Italian colossus specialising in the production of high-tech aerospace, defence and security and civil protection products from natural disasters. The group's annual income exceeds EUR 12.5 billion. There is a strong interest in investing in northern Greece. But what gave me particular impression was the mention of how they perceive that the Greek economy is now turning a page, which is capable of introducing Northern Greece, Macedonia and Thrace as a reception area for large investments that are capable of changing the fate of our country. The Ministry of Interior, the Macedonian and Thrace sectors supports every effort that serves this national objective. As far as our potential is concerned, we are standing next to any entrepreneurial interest that can bring the spring investment in our region, which has been hard tested in the years of the crisis. Tomorrow, for example, I welcome the CEO of the PFIZER Group - I am referring to the company, because it has been officially announced - in order to discuss the great investment that is being made in Thessaloniki - 2020 will become a reality - where one of the six new digital intelligence and analysis centres of major data that this American colossus will create. This is an important investment, which will directly create new jobs in the city of Thessaloniki for engineers, computer developers, i.e. people with specific skills with the prospect of becoming much more. The practical interest of PFIZER, Italian and other people who have expressed it proves that in Thessaloniki, Macedonia, Thrace have a pulse and are back on their feet. The confidence they show puts our country on the global research map. At the same time, however, it marks the next day of northern Greece, highlighting its great economic potential. In this context, we pay particular attention to innovation, because we consider it - and it is - the portal for the future. With Alexandria Innovation Zone we run the procedures for the implementation of the fourth generation technology park, the well-known Thessaloniki Tech announced by Prime Minister at the International Exhibition, a national-scale technology park and international standards on the plot of Perea, next to the airport "MAKEDONIA". We have already set up a working group, which meets on a weekly basis, so that we can have a full picture of the progress of the work. Soon, in fact, the particular plot of seven hundred sixty acres will be transferred from TEAD to Alexandria Innovation Zone. We also place particular emphasis on the management of the development law for the region of Macedonia and Thrace for investments over EUR 3 million. In particular, under the Development Act, Law 3908 has so far been approved for fifty-eight investment projects, while Law 4399 has approved forty-seven investment projects in the first cycle, while another eighty-one have been submitted and examined. From the application of these two investment laws, they are benefiting up to sixty-three investors and the aid amount exceeds EUR 90 million. As regards the control of the market in industrial products for the determination, compliance with the applicable technical legislation and general product safety, more than thirty-five checks have been carried out in the companies of all the regional units of Macedonia and Thrace in the last year. This is also a key issue for the implementation and management of the INTERREG programmes for cross-border and transnational cooperation. At the moment, four cross-border programmes are under way, and recently a programme of transnational cooperation with the Black Sea countries, which is headed by the Ministry of Interior, the Macedonian and Thrace sectors. I would like to make a separate reference to trying to preserve and highlight Macedonian products. Days ago, we presented to the Headquarters the second invitation of the program "Producer". Through our concrete initiative, we are achieving doubling the products of a designation of origin produced in Macedonia. In the fifty-eight already guaranteed, directly but twenty-two PDO products and geographical indication products are added, as well as twenty-five traditional specialities guaranteed. In this way, we increase the total number in more than a hundred products and continue. For tourism we have completed the procedures to participate in the International Tourism Exhibitions in Sofia, Belgrade and Bucharest in February 2020. These are three reports which do not provide for the participation of the EOT. We considered it appropriate to declare a potential present with a view to projecting Greece and, in particular, Macedonia and Thrace. Regarding strengthening the extroverted profile of northern Greece, we are working to organise the second Balkan Forum, on Friday, March 27, 2020 and on Saturday, March 28, 2020. Its subject is: Entrepreneurship and innovation. This will promote cooperation between the Balkan states. For the environment, after an initiative that I had taken in 2013 as Minister of Macedonia and Thrace at that time, we have under our supervision the superficial cleansing of the Thermaikos Gulf, energizing a network of enterprises that supports sponsorly as a social responsibility action in the whole of the effort, that is, without even a single euro being charged to the Greek State. At the same time, we coordinate the actions of some forty co-responsible bodies concerned with the protection and promotion of the Thematic Gulf. In conclusion, Mr President, I will focus on the renovation of the National Exhibition Agency, which the Prime Minister has included in the government's programme statements as one of the five flagship projects concerning the country. Today, HELEXPO occupys an area of about seventy acres. After the end of the work - in 2026, it is estimated - on the occasion and the celebration of the hundreds of years from the first International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, the new Exhibition Centre that will provide innovation and creativity will be a site for the city, while half of it - is very important - about eighty five acres of the existing space will be available to the Thessalonikians as a urban green park. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, 2020 will be a good year. The best things are ahead of us, especially for Macedonia and Thrace, who are evolving into leading ones. Northern Greece, ladies and gentlemen, cannot wait. Northern Greece deserves and must be at the forefront of the interest, defending its historical heritage. With these thoughts, I close, asking the House and all my fellow Members to vote for a very important vote of confidence in the 2020 budget, a vote of confidence which enables Mr Mitsotakis and his Government, which have a programme that is consistent, serious, hard work, to lead the country to high, very high, where it really deserves and appropriate to our Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too. The rapporteur-general has the floor from the Greek Solution, Mr Vassiliardos, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first budget debate Mr Stavros addressed to a rapporteur, telling him that our public debt is sustainable, mainly because it is served. In this context, I would like to say: Firstly, it is timely, on the one hand, because the interest rates of the ten-year bonds by the European Central Bank are artificially low, on the other hand, because the EUR 96 billion of interest rates have increased, from SYRIZA, for after 2032, where it will certainly be impossible to serve. Secondly, it is growing as an absolute size from EUR 350.6 billion in 2019, at EUR 351,16 billion in 2020, despite surpluses and the sale of public property. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is only planned to reduce GDP from 184.7% in 2019 to 178% in 2020, due to the 2.8% GDP increase, which the government and we hope will be verified. Thirdly, this reduction is due to the fact that the 2020 medium-term borrowing rate is calculated by the IMF in its report of 1.9%, compared with 2.8% growth. The issue of the real medium-term interest rate is, of course, a great one, since the IMF report is increasing to 2.6% in the next few years, in 2027. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, the Bank of Greece places it at 1.6% - I will submit the relevant document on the Minutes - while the Public Debt Agency is also presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In this regard, it would be very interesting to tell us how true it is for all years until it is paid back, with today's data. He knows, of course, that Greece's current new loan rate is short because it is artificially low from the European Central Bank. How long will the European Central Bank be able to guarantee it, especially for Greece? What will happen if there is a global liquidity gap, such as 2008, but also recently in September and December, where it has been dealt with with money shared by the FED with the European Central Bank, about 500 billion? I shall also present it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Has Greece really taken its measures? Fourthly, public debt remains relatively stable, with the help of revenue from the sale of our public enterprises. As we heard the day before yesterday from Mr. Hatzidakis, there will be nothing left to sell. But what happens when we have nothing more to sell? Fifthly, the public debt does not increase, but instead, the red private debt has been eroded, by which, essentially, private assets are transferred to the state and from this to creditors on the debt altar. It is more than 100 billion red debts to the public, almost 190 billion euros together with the burdens, 75 billion euros to banks, plus over 20 billion euros to speculators who bought loans from banks, about 40 billion euros to public bodies, etc. Is it possible, then, to identify a debt thus served as a sustainable one? Sixth, if the public debt is truly sustainable, then why not increase the Public Investment Programme and tax is not competitive, so that the crisis can finally be resolved before Greece is completely destroyed? Why don't you stop selling? Why do the destructive primary surpluses of 3.5% continue? It is therefore a shame to adopt such claims in public! I would like to add at this point that the government is right, with regard to SYRIZA's irrationality, to which EUR 5.5 billion from the pillow should be given to reduce the primary surpluses to 2.5 billion. Obviously, one is a cash issue and the other financial issue, which is like comparing apples with oranges. Finally, according to our colleagues' article from August 2019, in 2021 only interest will be launched at around EUR 10,956 billion, and in 2022 at EUR 24,489 billion. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is that true? Is this about frozen interest from EFSF? This could not be dealt with either by the pillow of the EUR 37 billion that could be made available, since the debt-savings are also to be added. But is that why we are forbidden to use it and where do we continue to borrow? We hope that all our questions will be answered, because the Greeks need to know exactly what will happen to him in the future. We also hope that the Minister will be right and not us, because this is not about us, but about the good of Greece. Furthermore, Mr Stakoras also told my colleague that he was wrong saying that taxes are increasing, since they are the result of the rise in GDP. However, my colleague has not claimed that the rates are increasing, but taxes are absolutely right. Taxes are increasing, while if the government does not want it, then it should simply reduce the rates or abolish the new taxes imposed on memoranda, such as the trade end, the solidarity tax or the 100% advance. With regard to the reduction of social costs in general, we would say that it is disgraceful to give EUR 175 million to two hundred and fifty thousand Greek families, when the two thousand illegal immigrants cost less than EUR 1.8 billion to our state. I would remind you that we have in the past tabled our calculations that prove it, without being placed. Continuing, I would like to stress again that the crisis that we financed with less than EUR 300 billion from our partners, in exchange for our national sovereignty, the mortgage of everything, the sale of public property, the confiscation of private property and the impoverishment of Greek citizens, has cost us more than EUR 1 trillion. This certainly would not be able to characterise us as a smart people, especially when we take all the disadvantages of bankruptcy without its advantages, as would be the nominal deletion of a large part of our debt. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] In particular, our private property retreated by EUR 587 billion, according to the 'CREDIT SUISSE' - I will submit the relevant document later on for the Minutes - the public property of more than EUR 250 billion, recalling that the IMF had valued the State's real estate at EUR 300 billion - I deposit it for the Minutes - red debt increased over EUR 200 billion, while more than EUR 100 billion was lost from the Stock Exchange. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, our GDP fell by about 60 billion euros and the middle-class fell to 20%. We would not therefore characterise all of this as European solidarity. We wouldn't say, of course, that it's only SYRIZA's fault, since, obviously, they were made by all the previous governments. I will now continue with the GDP rates, as I said in my first suggestion, since they depend on its rise. Firstly, with regard to the first rate of GDP, private consumption, forecasts are to rise by 1.8% due to the increase in employment by 1.8% annually and the doubling of average wage growth to 1.2% compared with 2019. But will our economy not be affected by the bankruptcy of 'THOMAS COOK', by Brexit and by the anticipated European recession, by the possible reduction in tourism and exports? As far as the second rate of GDP is concerned, private investment, as the budget says, moved significantly lower, at 0.7%, in the first half of 2019 when 11.9% had been anticipated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. However, they are expected to move significantly higher in the second half, at an annual rate of 8.8%. In fact, however, they have collapsed to 11.2% in 2018 compared to about 20%, 2009 or the Eurozone average at 21%, while public investment has also fallen. I shall submit the relevant document on the Minutes. It seems, therefore, that foreign investment is expected to rise, but that over the last few decades did not exceed 2%. In this respect, the government hopes that by selling out public enterprises, their foreign new owners will invest in modernising them, such as the example of the Italian state railway monopoly that created by selling TRAINOSE against EUR 45 million and waiting to invest EUR 2.5 billion, according to Mr Karamanlis. He has, of course, made it possible for the Italians with EUR 750 million for the NGO, for the services of general interest. The same hopes for the sale of Greek houses to foreign speculators, assuming that after they have purchased at degrading prices, they will invest in their renewal. But that would raise the rents, so it would strangle the Greeks again. So it wouldn't be a gift? On the other hand, we believe that domestic investment should be increased and that production should be concentrated. However, we see the absence of measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, if not a burden on their operating status. In addition, the cost of lending to households and businesses has increased compared to last year, and it is certain that many have no access to funding. How, then, can we invest and develop the country? The third rate of GDP is public expenditure, including the Public Investment Programme, but which must not be increased by creditors. It will therefore work negatively in terms of GDP. Finally, with regard to the fourth rate of GDP, what could completely change the picture of whether it became surplus, the trade balance, exports other than imports, remains its deficits due to the reduced competitiveness of our economy despite the huge decline in wages, after investment has collapsed. It is abrupt of the irrational economic model of post-multiplatification that needs to be changed and is not being launched. In conclusion, the solution is one and well known to all of us a hundred years ago, from the great recession in the United States: the increase in the Public Investment Programme and the radical reduction in taxes. The government must find a way to do it, since that is why it was voted on. It was adopted, in other words, to find solutions and not to continue the mismanagement of the former. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u117	Before giving the floor to the next rapporteur, I have the honour to announce that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, fifty two students and students and four educational sessions from the 1st High School of Nafplio (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur-General of Mera25, Mr Arsenis, has the floor. Then there will be the Minister of National Defence and the seconds of the parliamentary representatives. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to welcome the kids, too. I'm just coming from a rally that had too much youth. In Petroupoli and Ilion citizens went out to the streets, just to stop this danger to public health called Gender HYTA. Unfortunately, it seems that the planning is to continue - and I mention it in the budget because the fines will rain - with the illegal extension to the first protection zone at the moment when it is forbidden to do so, to extend the HYTA Gender there, to extend his life to another three years to end Mr Patolis' term of office and then tell us, 'We have come back to deadlock, we will send it to Musama or elsewhere'. We won't allow it. Together with the Western Front I submitted yesterday to the Coordinator of the Decentralised Judicial Command, precisely because he has broken a duty by concealing the environmental information that our law and European directives define. It is the right of the citizen to know the contents of this study for the Gender pollutants, which demonstrates the risk to workers, to the inhabitants of the region and to the whole of Athens. We also filed with the West Front at the Hellenic Atomic Energy Society a petition, denouncing and calling for an autopsy for radioactives, identified by the leak of this study published in the "Prescribers' Newspaper", in the Gender HYTA. And we won't stop until all the truth about the Race HIT is revealed. As far as the most specific issues in the budget are concerned, we have stressed how much this budget is like the previous SYRIZA budget, how much you need to see the details to identify the differences. And the reason is, they're both free. They are both bound by all the Memorandum Provisions of the past and the objectives of the future. You said, gentlemen, that it would be the first development budget. You know, a development budget in a time of crisis means two things very clearly. It means a brave increase in the Public Investment Programme - that is what one is doing in a recession - and a generous reduction in taxation, not of large companies, of taxation on a step-by-step basis. It also means to stimulate consumption, stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises where employment is generated. You do not do either, because you do not believe in small and medium-sized enterprises, despite the fact that employment is produced there, growth and GDP are produced and you obviously do not believe in having a development framework that finances growth. You believe in austerity and legalize from the memorials to apply it. Did you say that you would reduce the primary surpluses and, as we have shown you, have you reconciled from the first day of your governance to a possible reduction in 2022 to 2%, when 2022 the target will be 2.2% So to 0.2%? Is this the great preparation you're doing right now to bring down? Will 0,2% be? I would also like to focus on an issue that concerns very much the most sensitive regions right now in Greece, our islands. And, Minister of Defense, I think you will agree. In 2019, the transport equivalent was 157 million, 20 million for desalination, 96 million for horticultural subsidies. In 2020, in your budget, these sensitive regions lose this support. In the 136 million which is estimated to be the cost to the bourgeoisie lines, there are only 100 million in the budget, without being able to identify where the desalination money is and where the transport equivalent is, the payment of the ticket to the inhabitants. What about desalination? Are you going to answer us? What about the transport equivalent? Will the cost of life be increased for islanders, at the same time as they face all the other pressures you know? We have brought you into the tax amendment on the reduction of VAT on island regions at the earliest memorandum. You didn't accept it. Are you now cutting off the desalination subsidy and subsidising the ticket for the residents? Please respond very much, because it is nice to talk about risk and need to crash against the national challenges you describe, but it is important when we think there is a problem, to take concrete measures, not just to kiss. I'm going to close up with an existential issue for this budget. He said Mr. Skylakakis and reiterated that on the basis of the debt sustainability analysis, debt sustainability analysis analys, the debt will reach 100% of our GDP by five to six years earlier, as the debt sustainability analysis, based on the IMF, has improved since you took over government. Mr. Logiades told you, and I repeat, that on the basis of the IMF's analyses - and we do not mention them, because we like the IMF, but because it is all that you hear and feel so friendly that you do not want to negotiate with him - the debt ratio increases by 10% in 2028, higher than the March 2019 forecasts, since the lower than expected growth and the high surpluses of 2019-2025 undermine any reduced borrowing costs. Because Mr Stagioras said that this is an April 1919 analysis, it is not, Mr Stakoura, an April 2019 analysis. It's an analysis of November 13, 2019 and it's your government. That is why you yourself should vote against this budget. Because you manage to increase both your debt and be an anti-development budget. You will not, because, unfortunately, this budget is the only credentials you have or, rather, it only acts as a credential to creditors. But I invite you to do it. I urge you to vote against, as will we. We will vote against this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Arsenis. The Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panayotopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a special honour, but it is also a responsibility to find ourselves here in this House today as head of the Ministry of National Defence. I confess to you that at this time I feel a burden of responsibility. However, I do not take this as a problem, but as a challenge. And in the challenges we are making even more effort to cope with. I have the responsibility, therefore, as head of a ministry that, whenever required, stood and stand in the way of the situation, whether these circumstances are related to adapting to complex and increasingly complex security challenges in our region, as it seems, either by direct questioning our sovereign rights by provoking, unrepentant and unambiguously more aggressive neighbours, or even by assisting the Ministry and the defence in the national effort to get out of the crisis, as we are, of course, talking today about budgetary elements in the debate on the state budget vote. This is a state budget that now officially marks that Greece enters a period of normality, stability and growth. These designations I have used during the debate on the government's programming statements, and that is what I now feel is reflected in the draft budget that is being discussed in plenary today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear, even to those who do not admit it, that something has changed in Greece for five months. The concepts of investment, private initiative and healthy market forces, which can ultimately stimulate growth, boost employment and, of course, increase the public's available income, prosperity with wealth generation and the availability of the surplus of wealth resulting from this process of production, have been extinguished in order to support the weakest groups, the most vulnerable groups and the other actions needed by the orderly state, while at the same time monitoring of the country's budgetary commitments. So we are here today to discuss a budget of responsibility, justice and hope. It is a budget of responsibility both primarily vis-à-vis the new generations, so that they do not endure their future on the basis of obscene and temporary benefits, predatory measures and our partners who want a thorough cost and financial impact, clearly predicting every source of funding, so that the financial balance is not compromised. It is a budget of justice, as the recent reductions in HPAI, the improvement of the framework of private tax debt arrangements, the reduction of corporate taxation, including measures, demonstrate a systematic effort to restore injustices that have taken place in recent years at the expense of layers of Greek society, unfortunately, on the basis of, and many times, class prejudices, I would say, of course. Less taxes, less burdens on many, especially the middle class. That's a fact. It is a budget of hope, which is incorporates positive and, indeed, improving predictive growth rates, budgetary surpluses without excesses strangling the economy, further decline in unemployment, increasing important indicators for the economy everywhere. The forecasts reflect the climate of optimism and expectation, a growth of 2.8% and, indeed, not the best possible international context, a primary surplus of 3.56% as the first step towards demanding to negotiate relevant surpluses in the future, that is to say, for future improvement and, on the other hand, a primary surplus that does not lead to excesses that stifle economic activity and the economy. Also a significant increase in private consumption and investment as a result of the reinvigoration of economic activity and increased incomes of citizens. All this, of course, ladies and gentlemen, can be transformed from predictions and designs to tangible results and reality only within an environment of security for the country. At this point, too, the contribution of the Ministry of National Defence has specific features. So, be sure that the Armed Forces are the guarantee of that security environment that will enable the citizens of the country and businesses to develop their economic activity as a part, but also at the same time ensure stability for potential investors. So - and that is, if you will, the message I am addressing from this Step - all of Parliament's groups must help to bring this treaty into force: Powerful Armed Forces, which guarantee an environment of security in the country, and that in turn leads to prosperity, growth and stability. These reasons make me personally optimistic when, in the recent debate on the Ministry's bill, I think it is right to note the consensus and positive attitude of all of Parliament. I am referring to the recent legislative intervention that has to do with the upgrading of armed systems of the Armed Forces. I think it has now become common sense that the issues of national defence, in particular in this present difficult geopolitical context, the full of challenges and potential instability, must be beyond any party agendas and that the conditions have once again matured so that all of Parliament can vote in favour of the spending of the Ministry of National Defence as a field of understanding and co-existence of different views, but nevertheless a field of political unity and national unity, not to say a message of determination. So let us do this tonight by voting for the defence expenditure, the expenditure of the Ministry of National Defence, thus emitting the relevant signal both within and outside the country. I will not get tired of repeating what I have always advocated is that the National Defence is not a party, but a purely national case. So, coming back to the figures on the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, first let me quote some figures for the previous period and, in particular, for the period 2009 to 2019, in order for there to be a better, more comprehensive picture of the country's critical budgetary figures on defence expenditure. We need to understand how much the crisis has cost defence. I would refer to the three main categories of defensive expenditure: 'House of Armed Forces', 'Official Budget', 'Supplementary Programmes'. In the period 2009-2019 in the remuneration category, we had a decrease of about 21%. In recent years, the situation in this category has stabilised, following the implementation of the new salary for military personnel. In the category of operating budget, i.e. expenditure on fuel, feed, maintenance, repair of equipment and installations, etc. We have had a great reduction, about 63% over this period or 920 million euros at absolute prices. In the field of armaments, the corresponding reduction varies from around - also a sharp decrease - to about 76%, about 1.67 billion less for defence equipment in this difficult decade. In summary, the reduction of the Ministry of Defence's budget for the period 2009 to 2019 is more than 49% and at absolute prices it has exceeded EUR 3.2 billion less for the defence, but at the same time establishing the most important contribution of the Ministry to the country's budgetary adjustment process over the last decade. But I would like to send a different message for space from now on. The 2020 budget has been tabled for vote. As far as the Ministry of National Defence is concerned, I note the following: The trend towards reducing defensive costs is reversed. Appropriations for remuneration show a marginal increase of 3.2% compared to those for 2019 mainly due to the implementation of a provision to increase employers' contributions by the State as an employer for the staff covered by the State pension scheme until 31 December 2016. Total appropriations for staff earnings amount to 2.3 billion. The operational expenditure allocations are reduced by EUR 48 million. But that's not what it looks like. This reduction takes place in the context of a new reform of the Ministry of Finance by establishing a special reserve, aiming at a less costly and more efficient state. Let me explain two things to prevent any negative comments and reactions from those - the speaker is included in this category - they do not want to see, especially at this time, a reduction in the Ministry of Defence funds. The ultimate reason for the introduction of this special reserve consists in more realistic duplication of government expenditure, avoiding under-utilisation of budgetary appropriations in certain categories of them and, respectively, in serving the needs of increased uncertainty in certain specific areas: education, health, social welfare, defence and security. This special reserve in the draft budget for 2020 will be used from now on for the systematic strengthening of ministries throughout the year, thereby ensuring their smooth operation in general. I ask you: which Ministries are applying for additional support from the special reserve? I would like to say that what they are not subordinated to budget appropriations. What ministry is perhaps the first in terms of its ability not to have a budget line, since it absorbs almost 100% of the appropriations allocated to it? The Department of National Defence. Therefore, the timely accounting data from the Ministry of National Defence, that is, the high absorption rates, about 100% of the appropriations, the increase in operational requirements in most cases and due to the security challenges that I have mentioned, the strong social offer of the Armed Forces, which requires more resources to be made available to society-critical issues - I am talking about assistance to natural disasters, which is now a regular activity of the Armed Forces, forest fire-fighting, migratory, etc. - and of course, as well as good cooperation with the departments of the General Accounting Office of the State, they are convinced that, in the end, the Ministry's operating budget will not only be reduced, but the opposite will be further strengthened than the previous year, since the government budget is otherwise guaranteed to be implemented smoothly in both revenue and expenditure. Therefore, a special reserve means that the Ministry has full execution and absorption of the appropriations, it will be able to return and raise more funds still from the special reserve to cover other needs. Finally, with regard to armaments, the appropriations remain at the same level as in 2019, at 530 million, of course, in line with the forecasts of the current medium-term budgetary strategy framework. The overall budget is increased over the current year by a marginal figure. There are, however, two prospects here: as I told you, additional planned aid from the new special reserve of the Ministry of Finance, but also the possibility - not to say certain of this Step - of making additional funds available for defence expenditure. I have heard the interest, anxiety and suggestion of several members of the National Representation for the need to strengthen armaments expenditure for the Ministry of National Defence. All of you, be sure I didn't just hear it. The Prime Minister hears it. He is surely also convinced that this is the time to be strengthened by additional funds for defence expenditure, but this must be done according to the planning, prioritisation and needs of the leadership of the Armed Forces, the military leadership, which is recommended to the political leadership and then the political leadership by prioritising, as I have told you, these needs, is recommended to the Prime Minister. The proposals are already being tabled in order to go to the relevant decisions either through the disposal of a portion of the surplus, since of course we are in agreement with the relevant Ministry of Finance and of course always under the political guidance and instructions of the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, in this budgetary framework and in relation to the government's programming and mandates of the Prime Minister, initiatives have been taken and further actions are planned, which could focus on the following priority areas: ensuring adequate defence equipment by ensuring the resources required to support it, at the same time prioritising, with military leadership, the upgrading of existing armed systems, but also the acquisition of new ones, the reorganisation of the overall structure of the Armed Forces, with a view to increasing the availability of the intellectual resources, adaptation to the new requirements for the operational preparedness and functionality of the Armed Forces and the strengthening of their deterrent power, a revision of the institutional framework of defence supplies, with transparency and flexibility - I would say - as far as the needs of the Armed Forces are concerned. A strategic objective that we have recently set and we will insist on this: Revival of the domestic defence industry, as I think this has come about in practice by the recent activation of our defence industry into our F-16 Air Force aircraft upgrade programme, as it had been decided, but these must now be translated into concrete evidence that they are in fact valid. In the future, we will have many more opportunities to show that what we mean is that the existence of a competitive, functional, sustainable and extroverted defence industry must be a strategic priority for the country. I think, however, that we could take this as its comparative advantage. In a country like Greece with these powerful and active Armed Forces they should be supported by an active and supportive defence industry. We have upgraded military training for both executives, i.e. investing in the Armed Forces power multiplier, as well as the overall human potential for both armed forces, in order to make the mandate beneficial to themselves, to society and to the service. A lot has been said about the increase in the term of office. Of course, as I have said, this is not a matter now. I don't know where the needs will lead, but I would prefer to make the recruitment of selected, if you like, professional soldiers, executives in all three branches a priority. I think that would have greater added value in terms of the operational capacity and upgrading of the Armed Forces. We have strengthened defence diplomacy as a soft power tool, in cooperation with the relevant Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as with it we maintain and enhance, where necessary, the country's presence in NATO, the European Union and the UN missions. We have already talked about upgrading strategic cooperation with the United States of America. A relevant agreement has been concluded, which will shortly come for ratification in the Greek Parliament. But we are working, we are also deepening on the strategic alliance with France - including Israel and Egypt. Ladies and gentlemen, the Armed Forces are in good shape. They're worthwhile and ready. Of course they are faced with increased demands and more challenges, but they are responding. There is talk every day, therefore, of our air breaches by Turkish fighters. Yeah, but we're with them. We're with them and beside them. Four thousand five hundred violations of them in 2019? Four thousand five hundred intercepts. We'll do whatever it takes to always be with them, always be with them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The quality of the weapon systems and the spiritual potential guarantees high deterrent power, and I would like to make this clear in all directions with coolness, determination and thought. But we have to send out this message so everyone can understand it. Our task is, therefore, to bring the Armed Forces which are already in a very good state, even better in terms of reorganisation of their overall structure, to the level of upgrading of their weapon systems, both by adding new ones, as well as to the integrated and uninterrupted maintenance and support of existing ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u121	Minister, will you need more time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u122	I'm closing, Mr. President. We are aiming at the level of adaptation to new technologies, such as cyber defence - already the framework for cooperation with the relevant Ministry, we are working on it and we will bring it, it will be one of our first interventions in the new year - both at the level of strengthening the intellectual potential and, ultimately, at the level of support from a competitive domestic defence industry. This is a constant attempt. Now it must become more intensive, smarter and more multilateral than ever, because now more than ever the security threats around us are growing, and so now more than ever we need powerful Armed Forces that ensure our sovereign rights, support our national laws, guarantee and continue to guarantee the country's stability and security environment. This is a necessary effort for the country to move forward. The country's Armed Forces are the cutting of the sword, our terrible and our duty is to secure the treaty so that they remain as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u123	We are entering the cycle of the seconds of the parliamentary representatives. We will give the floor to Mr Lebanese and the rest of the Parliament will then continue. After the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, we will give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karamanlis, and the parliamentary representatives will continue. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after almost fifty, fifty-two hours of procedure in this Chamber, I think we have reached safe political conclusions. We have seen the Ellas opposition parties conducting an opposition criticism, according to their electoral positions. We saw the Change Movement trying to identify itself, to find identity. We saw the Civic Opposition without identity, without compass, for no political reason. However, we have also seen a government with a clear political and ideological signal, whose electoral and programme speech clearly expressed the ideological framework of political and social liberalism. We have seen the first government that promised to vote, keeps it and does it post-election. He promised a tax reduction - and this is doing - to restore security and attract investment to create wealth that is our disagreement with SYRIZA so that we can exercise social justice and social policy away from populism and demagogy. What do we do, in other words, as a government in these five and a half months, and we are proud of it? We are practically applying our policy and our ideology in practice, the ideology and the effectiveness of it with which we are asking to be judged at the end of the day by the Greek people. We are abolishing the asylum of violence at universities, conflicting with the lawlessness of the anarchists, the trumpets and the bahalakidians, trying to destroy the unbaptized of the Exarchates. We also reduce tax burdens. We invest in healthy private entrepreneurship. Above all, we have a sincere and clear position with regard to all kinds of populism and all issues. Our policy is reflected in all the investigations and polls that are being made that are ultimately rewarded by the large majority of citizens and not just by the citizens who voted for New Democracy in the last elections. In other words, it rewards many and many who stand on our side, huging our reform efforts. After the returning election victories of the summer, with its choices and effectiveness, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis earns the opposition on a daily basis. This has the effect of SYRIZA deorganising practically, confusing even more ideologically and, ultimately, pushing to political deadlocks. I will try, because the finances have been covered, to some extent, to cover the criticisms we have received in this Chamber in the last five days. I begin with the speech by Mr Scandalidis, who, as rapporteur for the Change Movement, told us that we are diving in the past because we do not have a policy today. Although I respect him and watch him for too many years because he is one with the history of PASOK and the history of the country since the last few years, I think he is making a great mistake. We did not open the debate on the past. He referred to Mr. Simitis and Helsinki. They are the ones who opened the debate and we have just answered historically, wanting to put political dialogue to the modern-day questions and stop arguing about yesterday. I am not going to answer one of the points in his speech. However, I would like to say - and the Prime Minister has said so before - that we believe that forty-five years of Transmigration there have been mistakes, but there has also been a great deal of good for our country. It has increased the standard of living, reduced our difference from the other Western countries, and we are proud of what we have done in this direction. We have done and continue to make our self-criticism about our mistakes. The same goes for - and I hope it will also apply to PASOK. But Mr. Scandalidis also made a second mistake. He returned to this debate and accused the Government of New Democracy by 2009 of creating debts. So he told us that in 2004 PASOK handed over a "A" Greece and, in the end, in 2009 we handed over a "B" Greece in debt. I would like to remind him and particularly to remind the Greek people, despite the fact that we are dealing with tomorrow and the future, that it was PASOK which, with its coming into power, brought down institutions, increased the public sector, leveled principles and values, exceeded the Greek economy, brought scandals that we do not want to remember on both the Stock Exchange and the weapons systems and finally brought to the country another form of populism, which is linked, of course, to the one we later lived with SYRIZA. The best gift for Christmas to Mr. Scandalidis is Takis Pappas' book for populism that devotes two chapters to PASOK and to his matching with populism in our country. The economy has been criticised. SYRIZA is abdicating us for all the problems of capitalism around the world and that in the end we in Greece are serving a system that collapses worldwide, a system that no one doubts has imperfections, but ultimately is the only one that works. Marxism, communism, existing socialism, wherever they have been implemented, have plummeted. It is also of particular interest to exercise global parliamentary control - that is original - which Mr Tsakalotos is doing here in the last two days, where he asks us what we think of the global economy. This is a nice debate and this criticism is welcome. However, we have a clear command from the sovereign Greek people to build the Greek economy and in this direction we are moving. The first steps of our government are positive and we are, of course, open to an ideological political debate on the future of the world economy, but I think that is not the subject of the budget debate. We say that in Greece, in our economy, we have signs of growth with the climate of the economy constantly improving. In this context, when Mr Tsakalotos comes to Stepma, it would be useful to open his eyes to us a little bit and answer two questions: First, where your own economic model has been implemented and has succeeded and helped the non-preferential and middle classes and, second, when we have pan-Europeanly had good economic conditions, you have in practice done what you have done in our country? The second thing you're accusing us of is the police state. You're telling us we're the junta of the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u125	Nobody said that. I did not hear the word 'junta'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u126	Not you, but many of your colleagues. You also said that we even use ERA practices, which were neoliberal - you said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u127	I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u128	...which is still a long time, because we accuse ERA of being a very state-runner, but in any case. So you're turning us back into the past. I have followed the whole debate and have seen that in addition to what you are telling us, once Mr Chrysochides and Mr Vorides are in the Chamber, you are being ticked, something is irritating, something is bothering you. I'm not sure what this is, but I'm sure you have nothing personal with them. However, I understand that the area of security is the only area that you have left - in your mind, of course - to maintain this false acquis on the Left and the supposed moral advantage you had. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But in the four and a half years of the country's governance you have proved, in the first place, that you cannot rule and, secondly, that you cannot help the popular strata to which you are referring. And now you are putting your hopes for ideological recovery and political reconstruction on security issues with a negative trend. But here, you're with the few of them again. You put to you many, those who want fairness, rule of law, merit, development. Our position is once and for all and we repeat it once again. Every form of violence, wherever it comes, is condemned. We are all equal to the law, citizens, police officers, MPs, ministers. You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are very critical of ELAS, judging by individual and many times unreserved incidents, without yet investigating and forgetting the debt we all have to the Greek Police, that is to say, these young people and the practically new ones who risk their lives to protect us. Of course, if there are exceptions to police officers who have been out of legality, exceptions to the whole, the responsibilities and those responsible will be sought out, something we agree with you. This clear position is in complete contrast, and you will allow me to say, with the position expressed by a Member of your party with the well-known pit 'bottoms, pigs and murderers'. Of course, I have seen with interest that this Member has withdrawn from the list of speakers in today's debate, which makes me feel that you understand some things and that you are going in the right direction. You also accused us of violating the rights of strikers, that we are the bad liberals who do not recognise the right to strike. No, ladies and gentlemen, the opposite happens. We are in favour of workers' rights, strike rights, but in the context of legality and proportionality. We cannot tolerate any more, as can Greek society, small minorities making our fellow citizens hostage, trouble and financially harm them. And because you are a fan of ideological searches and theoretical reflections, let us finally open up a public debate on the concept and use of public spaces in our country. This will be very interesting and we will see where your position is for security. You are accusing us of the absence of planning, sloppy and unsuccessful treatment of the immigration and refugee issue. You are accusing us, in other words, of saying that the sea has no borders and that you were applying an open-ended policy, while you did not have an essential legislative framework that was set up and stable for the asylum procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Levane, you'll have to finish. Make an effort, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I agree with you. Our differences are obvious, which is positive for democracy. We are moving rapidly and with a specific plan that moves on the three-way "strengthening, acceleration and internationalisation of the problem". We call on you to come to work together and on the basis of the experience you have gained in the years of governance. If the issue of national issues is raised, I guess I will have one, two minutes to answer. In conclusion, I would like to say that in the first few months of governance we have done a lot like a government. We have proved our readiness and consistency. We are determined to continue at the same and faster pace to support our non-preferential and weak fellow citizens, to give the middle-class the place it suits, to release the forces of creation, to lead Greece forward, to lead it to a new future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing to the House that they are attending our meeting from the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three educational sessions from the General School of Stylida Fthiotida. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos, now has the floor for ten minutes. I would ask that we be very warm to be in the context of the time envisaged. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, the reason for credibility. The budget for the figures is reliable, the budget is reliable because it respects the election promises. Let's consider it. Is the budget reliable in terms of numbers? If I'm not mistaken, on Monday afternoon, at night, I had a fertile controversy with Mr. Gerapetti precisely on this matter. We all know which forces brought us into bankruptcy in 2009. We already know which forces created the "Greek Statistics" and how difficult it was for all the Memorandum governments to convince us to the contrary. I warned Mr Gerapetti that credibility is very difficult to build, but it is very easy to get lost. I see a trend in this budget too to raise issues which we cannot count well, for example, on tax evasion or the savings of resources. I see a number of things being done that give a more favourable picture and I see a lack of agreement in having a serious debate on the facts. As our party disputes the budget gap that you were supposed to have found yesterday, Mr Juliarakis questioned whether you can make an assessment of the budgetary gap on a point. I'm sorry for everyone you're lawyers here, not economists, but you can't create a tendency with an observation. We also introduced a methodology for how we can agree on numbers, how you can make a prediction with a methodology that will let us understand what the public gap would be not in a moment, but in a long time and refused to enter this debate. It is not good for your credibility that you did not want to engage in a debate, but it is not good for the credibility of Greek statistics too. I was waiting for a government that says it wants to be consensual and find it. If we can't figure it out in the numbers, we have a huge problem talking about anything else. Reliable is supposed to be the budget for the medium-scale promise. We've asked a number of questions. Our tongue is hairy and you're not even involved in this conversation. We have told you since the tax bill that your own budget you submitted to the Commission says that the poorest 10 % get less than a hundred euros, that is, sixty euros and almost 10 % of them get almost five hundred euros. Is that something to face inequality? Is it something that will reduce inequality? I don't understand. I have not heard a word of fire, not a wise speech, as you say, from your point of view, that you are concerned about inequality, that you share the global concern that is everywhere, to scientists, to researchers, to movements, that inequality is the subject of our time. We have asked you whether the objective for health expenditure is realistic and legitimate to reach the European Union average. We didn't get an answer for that 7%. Is it legitimate? Isn't it fair? Aren't we telling you to be like Sweden or Germany, but on the European Union's average we can get there? Is that fair? You give 10% of the budget gap this year for expenditure and 90% for tax relief and for time you promised - or rather you announced, Mr Staikora - that it would be 20-80 if I am not mistaken. Is it possible to create a modern social state and expenditure on education and health? You didn't tell us anything about worrying about a global phenomenon. Mr Lebanese a little - he told us that 'we are not concerned about what is going on in the world'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u133	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u134	Then I'm wrong and I take it back if you didn't say so. I didn't understand well. I do not understand if you are concerned about the global phenomenon that everyone is talking about, about wage stagnation. Why, in other words, have you done five - six of your first acts to create problems with the power of workers for arbitration or collective agreements? Now we hear there will be more for the protests. How does he deal with that? Do you do this so that wages don't shrink? I have no idea if you don't think it's a problem, and I don't understand if you think we should do something about this global phenomenon in Greece as well. It also has a development aspect. Our analysis is that low wages create incentives for non-innovative investments, because companies prefer to invest and employ poorly paid workers. So what part of your analysis will help to see a rise in wages? You're not trustworthy of security. I have heard the speeches by both Mr Voridis and Mr Theodorikos and Mr Levanos. They gave me the impression that the only one concerned about these phenomena is SYRIZA. Have you not read the announcement of the Athens Bar Association, and what does it say about the great concern? Is that all we're worried about? Did you read Mr. Alivizato today to see what he says? It did not come out of your mouth a feeling that you are really concerned about these phenomena, that the rights for you are important. We heard Mr. Voridis say that the people voted for this asylum agenda. I'm not talking about Mr. Voridis now. I'm talking about the rest of you who think you're still liberal, because even Mr. Vorides' mom wouldn't call him liberal in politics. Is rights really a matter of voting, majority and minority? That's what you're telling us, that because you won the elections, you have the right to give people a white check to undo new girls or go home without permission from the police, from the D.A.? What did the Vice-President of Western Attica's police officers say when he said that we were finally released from our hands? Who did he mean exactly? What you're doing is signalling you're not worried about that. You give a point where the cops will take it and that's why it's not reliable. I don't think that's what you meant. I won't talk about any more credentials about excellence. I think I don't even have to comment on this matter. The examples are so much. I'd like another nine minutes to comment on it. May I tell you my personal opinion? Such credibility we have to see since September of '38 Neville Chamberlen, the Prime Minister of England, lifted the Munich deal paper that sold half Czechoslovakia to the Germans and said that we would never have a war again. That's the credibility you have. But you have credibility for large companies that get the largest share of tax relief, you have credibility for large employers by abolishing collective agreements, you have credibility for people with great wealth or great income. I didn't hear any answer why it's important from the two hundred that you - I think I convinced the financial staff that you only gave 60 million, I think that went through the world - but out of the 200 million, the hundred million had to go to people with over five hundred thousand property. What argument is that? That this is the priority in this Greece? You have credibility in the ODPs to do more transcriptions. I think the owners will consider you more than trustworthy. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to denounce your untrustworthyness and your class partiality and continue to be credible. We will be reliable in the world of work that wants better wages, people who want to reduce inequalities, people who want better health, people who want to tackle climate change, people who want more rights, people who want more democracy. We heard from Mr Lebanese once again after so many years the 'golden' era of Blair and conservative policies and we heard that there is no alternative change. Its basic argument is that different things have been achieved, and that is why I have called for it and again I am making it, that, in order to be credible for everything I have said, for the wages, for the social state, for education, for there to be budgets that also have developmental and social time, SYRIZA cannot be alone. We can't do what Mr. Blonde invited us yesterday to have a front against privatization in health. There can be no social front against the demonstration plan. I have told you and I have told you again: it is not very important if we do not succeed and we do not prove that Mr Lebanese is wrong in saying that there is no alternative. A little is important in history if we fail. However, it is of enormous importance to the society we know that, if there is indeed no solution to these problems, and Mr Lebanese for inequalities, for growth, for attitudes to wages, he will be going more and more to the political spectrum. So it is hugely important that the anti-population forces - I hope the Change Movement - look more, with greater hope in the JRC and Mera25, because I do not know where the Change Movement wants to be - prove that there is an alternative and that the interests of the people's middle classes and the working class can be universal interests. Their interests, that is, to be identified with the interests of all the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u135	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karamanlis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u136	Then...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u137	But I had announced it, Mr. Loverdo. You were in the Chamber too. I had announced to Mr Lebanese, that is, the first two parliamentary representatives, after the Minister, after the other parliamentary representatives. No objections were raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u138	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the SYRIZA parliamentary representative, I have to say that there are two ways to understand public life policy. One is the big words and communication wrappings. The other is investment in substance and hard systemic work. There is also a limit to political propaganda. He talked about collective bargaining. To tell us what collective agreements - non-wage benefits, that is - have you signed as the government of SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u141	Governments do not sign collective agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u142	They don't sign? The General Accounting Office of the State...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u143	I'm explaining the institutional framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u144	Do not interrupt the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u145	Now you're entering a game that doesn't make any sense. You systematically broke the workers, you didn't give them the collective contracts, and the reckless neoliberal government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis had to give them. You are the ones, gentlemen of the Left, and you come, Mr Chakaloto, now and you tell me about formal procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u146	Tourism?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u147	Let us know...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u148	Listen, in my ministry, Mr. Spirtzis - and rightly, in my opinion - had taken over the "ERGANI" and had approved the collective agreements and Mr. Juliarakis, who was then the Deputy Minister responsible for the General Accounting Office of the State and who could not have said it neoliberal, refused to sign them. The political lie and political misunderstanding must once be brought to an end. And because you've lived many years abroad and in England...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u149	That's why I know about collective agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u150	Let me fix you. Conservative politician wasn't Tony Blair and the "there is no alternative", Mr. Tsakalotos, didn't tell Tony Blair, Margaret Thatcher said so. Toni Blair said "the three way".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u151	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u152	It is therefore good to know who are conservative and who are liberal. Continuing, to go to my department's, you know, I never want to zero off my opponent's work. I shall therefore acknowledge that, in my area of transport and infrastructure, the truth is that the previous government has actually carried out some projects, but it has, in particular, received the five motorways, the concessions that SYRIZA had voted against, almost entirely. It took, of course, after six months of experimentation that you had in 2015 and your illusions, to make a restart from the beginning and to give the contractors a loan of EUR 500 million. But that, if you want, is the least. You left no study, no design, for the next 15 years. For the works that the political and technical world of this country should once, with compassion, with harmony, seriously sit and agree. I would also like to state here, if you will allow, Mr President, a wider reflection. The crisis of the last decade, ladies and gentlemen, I think it showed us that the achilles heel of Greece in Transmolitanism was that we had no clear direction for the country's productive model. Since 1974, we have been living one of the most stable democratic parliamentary periods in recent years. What we have lost, however, was the social and economic model that the post-government Greece had to rely on. If such a plan and a new production model are not formulated with a broad consensus, Greece will find it difficult to move. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has presented and has already carried out a reconstruction plan for the memorial era, based on what we disagree with the left, in fewer taxes, in better wages for the middle class and more private investment, whether they come from our country or from abroad. The right choices in infrastructure will therefore allow me to say that they play a crucial role. Infrastructures in new anti-milling projects, rail, electricity, logistics. To combine and play a central role in the next forum as a country of entry and exit of products in the European Union. Our plan is specific and is based on seven priorities, which, in my short time, I will present to you. Firstly, we must finally provide definitive solutions to projects that the place needs, but we have received them and are facing too many problems. Indicative example, the most characteristic, the Patra - Tower project. A project that the Hellenic Republic has auctioned over the last ten years in three different ways. Initially, as a work of the concession contract. Afterwards, this work became unified. SYRIZA then came in and made it partition, which is contrary to the European Commission's directives, and today we are in contact with the European Commission, to find a lasting solution so that this project can begin. Because everyone knows that the partitioning of projects always leads to dead ends. Another example of BOAK. What did we receive? A pencil on the map, no curriculum maturity, no even indicative content of the project and a competition of interest. Run! And SYRIZA came out with communications terminals to tell us that the project would start in the next semester. Who do they think they're making fun of? We are living at a time when many words on project issues cannot go ahead. We are in the final straight line to finish all the studies that need to be carried out. More importantly, we should finally find funding for a project which has not been done over the years, because simply no one had come with a credible solution to finance. Thessaloniki Metro. You're inaugurating mustaches. We haven't seen this in decades. You brought back a project with your ideas of subway and Venizelos station. You've changed your decisions. You weren't respecting S.H.E.'s decisions. We are now at a point where you were telling us that the project would be ready in 2020, when everyone knew that you would give the project ready and collapsing in 2022 and then stop the metro operation for a year at the two main stations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u153	Do you believe what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u154	I don't believe it, it's real and technical. Obviously, you do not understand, my dear fellow Member, that lying has close legs and that this immunity that the Left had in this Chamber is stopping.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u155	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u156	Leave the lies. The competition for line 4 is another case of delays due to judicial involvement. Already the "ATTY MEETRO" proceeds to relaunch the procedures so that in 2021 a project that has been stuck in the auction for four and a half years. Patras Railway: Another SYRIZA political fraud. The solution was ready in 2014. You come and talk about full subjugation of nine and a half kilometres, without a feasibility and sustainability study without the Jaspers' approval. And we come to the table with all the actors and propose a solution which, in our view, is both realistic and sustainable and ensures what we all want, connecting the railway with Patras. Connect the Patras railroad to Athens and go to Promachona with electricity. I'm going through other priorities. Construction of the southern part of the E65 is progressing quickly. Contacts with the European Commission and the implementation of the northern section continue. We are ready to begin the work on the new Heraklion airport in Kastelli in January. At a speed we are also planning for 2020 to start upgrading to the Athens-Thessaloniki railway line, so that in 2021 this route will fall into three and a half hours. I want to stand on the Egnatia Street a little, and I want to be perfectly honest. The planned concession will proceed and take place by 26 June 2020 in terms of transparency and rationality. All tolls will be running at 3 minutes per kilometre and not 5.5 minutes agreed by KYA Spirtzi - Tsakalotou until May. And I would like to say to investors, who have been disappointed by the incredible incapacity of the previous government, that this road will be granted a criterion, the public interest, to make Egnatia a modern road, a modern road that can cope with the needs of a country that is developing. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. Let's go to Piraeus subway. We had three stations. As the previous government was doing, the work would not have been completed, because it was not planned - listen - the Piraeus tickets are compatible with those of Athens. We have reached points that we now see that incompetence, indifference, led to real dead ends and now we are being called upon to give a solution. For the most central station, the Piraeus station, which you said would be completed in 2019, you had not even started the rafts in practice. Another priority: to give 4412 really the changes that need to be made and to correct this SYRIZA genogram, which you yourself have amended over three hundred times. Fourthly, improving urban transport. As much as day-to-day problems are solved, citizens are not satisfied and are absolutely right. Yesterday's episode shows, if I may, the conflict of two attitudes. The mentality of the project against the mentality of real work. Within five to six months, not all changes. We do not hold a magic wand and even when we have received 1/3 of the trains on Athens metro at the moment without being able to function. We found a program in the N.S.S.A. We will finance the relocation of these trains and move quickly towards rationalisation. Athens and Thessaloniki buses are an old fleet. What have you been doing for four and a half years? Where's the new bus contest? We have an average age of buses in Athens and Thessaloniki for over seventeen years. You have presented a competition that had a smell of scandal, and therefore the Independent Prosecutor of Prosecutors has annulled the competition and not the Government of New Democracy. We move fast, so that we have new buses, environmentally friendly and electrically mobilized to a very large degree - at least a hundred and fifty to two hundred - so that we can get into the new generation of buses. I don't want to talk to OSH. That's where we really did crisis management. The European Commission places enormous responsibility for the statement that you have created and led OSH to have a hundred and eighty buses when you handed over the government in August. We use the legislation you have created to transfer transport work to the CBELs. We have tabled an amendment to the long-term rental of vehicles, until there is a bridge to come the new buses within two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u157	Minister, how long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u158	In two minutes' time, Mr. President. Toll Interoperability. We have agreed with Mr. Pierracakis that there is no such ridiculous phenomenon that, to go from Athens to Thessaloniki, one needs three transponders. You didn't even do that. You could not put them on a table, pull their ears and tell them "find a solution, so the public won't mind".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u159	Did you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u160	We did it and we'll announce it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u161	Well done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u162	So here I shall speak very quickly what you have done to the PSC when we have received it. The airport of Greece, "Eleftherios Venizelos" - and I have not said so publicly - went to downgrade with the management that you did at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are trying to change our administration now - very soon we will have changed our administration - in full cooperation with the Commission, with DG MOVE, so that we do not have the third-world images that we have experienced in the 'Eleftherios Venizelos' in the summer with the three-hour delays. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport we need to think about and see that there is a series of new projects, new projects, for which, despite our differences in ideological and political policies, despite the criticism we have and the controversy we have, we have to sit down and agree on what these are about reorganisation...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u163	Don't be ironic, my dear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u164	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u165	We have proposed to you. The problem with you is that you cannot even listen and counterproposal. We are determined to continue our work. We are determined to raise the country. We are determined to end the great lie that we have lived in the last four and a half years! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u166	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the second round of the speeches of the Parliamentary representatives was not a second round of budgetary speeches. I would like to begin with the position of Mr Lebanese, on the New Democracy side, who used about half of his speech to refer to the PASOK and showed - in a way that is exceptional - the example of the loss of a recent memory, how a politician has a selective memory and, without understanding, forgets what he does not want to remember. Mr Lebanese forgot, referring to the history and course of PASOK, which was the party that played a struggle and managed to join Cyprus in the European Union. He forgot that. He forgot which party was what led the country to the Economic and Monetary Union. And that he forgot. He forgot which political organization created the great middle class in the country, which since the late 1970s, but mostly in the 1980s took flesh and bone. He forgot which party led the country to bankruptcy in 2009. He forgot who were those who took advantage of a wrongful system that was chasing Andreas Georgiou, creating for no reason any trials and trials against this man, who simply recorded what situation you delivered in 2009. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, for the loss of the recent memory and the selective memory you have shown you have in the National Representation. I hope that this phenomenon will be transient and not permanent. This will, of course, be judged at the next sittings of the House. I now address Mr Tsakalotos because yesterday, looking at the Minutes of my position, I heard that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and former Minister for Finance, when I made a reference to the recent past, to the governance of the place by his government, called me under what the government has changed now and we are not in SYRIZA's days. He did not, however, hear that in my speech I had already mentioned the necessary bridges when we talk about economic sizes when we talk about numbers and political options. It is not possible, my dear fellow Member, to ignore that, when we have a change of parliamentary relations and government within a budget that is running, the next budget is formed, not to mention a representative of the people in the National Delegation who respects the number debate, in what is happening. Who can tell me that I am wrong when I pointed out the 58 billion dollars of potential Gross Domestic Product lost by the country because you dropped the previous government from you? Who can not remember the 3.5% surplus that should be allocated to all budgets by 2022? When we discuss primary surpluses, which the government badly passes without discussing, but which it promises, we will not mention who has agreed to that? One says 32 billion. The other guy says 34 billion. Yesterday, we learned 37 billion of the cash you left. We also need to make a proper briefing for journalists and MPs, so that we know what we are talking about? Since yesterday we have learned that the country's cash reserves are 37 billion. It's a big amount. You ask the other guy if he wants another seven more for the year 2020? And of these, has he made some sort of design? These are questions which are addressed to the government on the basis of the policy that you, however, have decided and which you want to forget. But you're unforgettable. We can't forget that. So we ask the government, "What are you going to do with this money?" The previous ones, in other words, you said - but you did not - that one of them, 5.5 billion, was going to do something about it. You were saying things. What will the new government do with this money? It's the Minister's answer that we're expecting to change our rating grade first, so we can negotiate on them. Immediately afterwards, to go to my next point, when I ask very strongly how much the new immigration policy will cost, what a budget the government does for this, I am told that they cannot count it, because there are unbearable figures and expenditure. Mr. Skopje, however, reports. Minister, you say, in reply to me yesterday, that from this money, trying to determine what our policy costs, we will approximately calculate and part of it will be covered by the surplus - you say - and another part of it will be submitted as a request for cofinancing in the European Union. That's what you're telling me. So we have an immigration policy that we don't know how much it's doing. And we have the possibility - you say - to cover our own contribution, in addition to what will come from the European Union, from this reserve, from the cash supply provided by the previous government, by undermining the economy. You will continue for 2020, by doing the same, by not paying pensions, by increasing the due amount and by taxing the Greek people with the new tax provisions. Mr. Brutsi is here. I have been begging for months to meet at a meeting that will be the Minister for Labour and Social Security here and listen to the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, when speaking and not going to step down. So I've been asking for a long time. Minister, you're not looking out for me. I can't go on like this. You're insulting me, Mr. Comrade. This isn't a cafe. Ladies and gentlemen, we are following the policies which are heard as a promise on the part of the government. I am watching the knowledge that I have as Minister, who has established an insurance system which has not been considered unconstitutional - nor one - and has all been judged by the Council of State, a pension scheme which respected the intergenerational solidarity and has seen the problem of the country's ingenuity and has given guidelines for the future, for new pension data, separating pensions into national and proportional, separating provision from pension and separating health expenditure, creating the EPPY, for which I am proud. Because it is my political choice, which I have shaped without having an office to work from the wood that my partners and I at the time have eaten. Now, you all respect the state monopsy and count on it. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I would therefore ask you, Minister, to speak of an insurance scheme that you form, from which you will be responsible, according to your will and their choice. As we are trying to calculate it, we in the Opposition, without having your services, see that, if you do, we will have a reduction in the contributions to be collected from the Contribution Fund by about EUR 200 million. Are you considering this in the 2020 budget? If the decision of the Council of State on pensions is implemented, there is a budget of EUR 375 million in our own approach, with all the imperfections that a party may have in a number of countries that does not have state services feeding it. Are you counting on this? I read - and I hope to be mistaken - that 70 million less are provided for pensions in the year 2020. I'm putting my question down. I also politically wonder how I know what you received in various forms of funds, as we used to call them. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that 95% of sanitaries cannot get a response from their fund for what they owe to regulate it? This is what the new leadership has received. Instead of showing them, he laughs at a smile of optimism and says, "It will all happen." But we have a reasonable question, because we have to vote on a budget and one of the most critical ministries in the country, which is the Ministry of Labour, must be explained to us. I am anxiously waiting - and I say this positive - for I have followed Mr Brutsi and as Minister who took over some time after me and Mr Koutromanis and we were together in the criticism we made in the previous government for four and a half years. But now he's Minister. Received what he received. We need to see what he's gonna do. Share promises I don't think it's the best solution. I won't make it. I wanted to make a report. I am omissioning it for political reasons too. I wanted to make a reference to a statement, statement, speech, position, explanation - all of it has been done - in terms of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs on the question of sanctions in Turkey. I'm skipping it. I'm leaving it. I do not mention it - and I repeat - for reasons of responsibility. I come to two - and I close - economic issues. Mr Secretary, Mr Psulakakis, I asked you to give us a picture of the reason between the indirect, the class more, and the direct taxes. Your predecessor, from 2017 onwards, didn't give us that relationship. We have recorded it as a relationship and as a result increasingly in favour of indirect taxes and direct taxes, so as a mirror of a class policy. You don't give us that painting. We have asked the Standing Committee for it. What about the 2020 budget and yours? Please very much, before the meeting ends, and we shall proceed to the vote, we shall have this table.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Loverdo, be brief, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u169	I'll talk as much as the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u170	You've reached twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u171	Ten and a half minutes, as many as the rest, if you hadn't interrupted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u172	You've got half a minute then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u173	I've got a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u174	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u175	So I say that there was a very interesting debate, despite the convergences, about the middle class in Greece. It was economically defined on the basis of the information provided to us by the OECD. Colleagues, in order not to keep up to EUR 30,000 annual income, the OECD and also a reasonable approach to this issue, from an economic point of view, as being part of the middle-class system, is the one who pays such a sum. The debate here has been opened more from the government's side and has included the fact that there are issues of widespread tax evasion and tax evasion, particularly tax evasion - I understand it and accept it, not only is Greece an area of this kind, and we read that Germany must be a champion in the field of tax evasion - and we have also added - with our interventions - that the middle layers are also distinguished for their behaviour. Because, I have the honour to be in the middle-stage party, whose policies, however critical they have been, have created the vast middle-strengths in Greece, I would like to say to you that, from now on, our debate after the budget and I close with that, Mr President, we must talk about the medium-strengths - which are the largest part of our population and the economically active and more generally - by giving them their particular characteristics. It's not just what you're saying on the IRS, it's what you think of others, if you appreciate each other, and if you have self-esteem. It's about what you believe in your life and your prospect. These are the things that we lived in Greece of the acne and that the Greece that caused us to forget, but we need to see them again. This is how we have to speak politically, and not in the way of confrontation, on the basis of elements which - many times - may also reflect reality. We as a Movement of Change will continue - as we were - to be a force of responsibility. That's how we're going. This is how we address the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u176	The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, is next.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Of course the Greek economy is not in a test tube, but is affected by international developments and the burden of the international economy. However, we have referred to this issue and what the reasons are. But here we have to stand a little further in the new government account, in the new myth that forged, that is what? That attraction of investment is the main issue, because by attracting investment and new investment, new and better jobs will be created. However, this claim is disguised and disproved in every way and every day, because exactly what investors want to invest is that they want cheap workers, workers without built-in rights, consumable workers. For example, in SYRIZA's governance, but also before, tourism and energy absorbed over 60% of investment projects in development laws. What jobs have been created both in tourism and in energy? They should have been the best jobs, the best paid workers, but the opposite happened. So we had workers without rights. Fifteen different employment contracts exist in the tourism sector, and we are not talking about uninsured and black work. Because the main aim of each investor is exactly how to reduce the so-called 'cost of work', wage or non-wage. That is why BSE demands daily, not only that there should not be any changes, but that the existing jungle conditions be maintained and more maintained, for example by setting a target for further reductions in so-called 'non-wage labour costs'. And these requirements of BSE, today and the previous ones, rushed to legislate. For example, the Government of New Democracy was one of the first measures it had adopted in the development law was the effective abolition of sectoral agreements. Or how does the New Democracy see new jobs, new jobs? It was in the PPC bill, which, in essence, newly recruited PPC workers will work under worse and worse conditions than already employees in PPC. Because what concerns the most, both employers and governments, regardless of which party exercises urban governance, is precisely the shield of the competitiveness of business groups, because this can increase the profit rate. Because it is concerned, the profit rate is that it employs each employer whether to invest, whether to place, in other words, the funds available. So, under these conditions - and much more through increased labour productivity and worse working conditions - the part of the pie that takes the capital is growing and all the lesser part of the pie is heading towards the workers, so that the socially produced wealth is accumulated in less and less hands. And this has not only been done in Greece in the past few years. That is what is happening internationally. That is why the figures show that only 0.9% of the world's richest pyramids, at the top of the pyramid, have 43.9% of the world's wealth, while instead of those on the pyramid, 56.6% of the poorest, on a global level, have just 1.8% of the world's wealth. And then you talk about equality. What is equality? Where did you see it the equality of the rule of law and equality? So the result is that we will have the exacerbation of social inequalities, which will increase and increase, because more and more wealth will accumulate in less hands and more and more will live under worse working conditions. And this is in the DNA of the capitalist system, it doesn't change. As the sun is never going to come out of the West, capitalism will never become a fair social system, hardly will it become more and more unfair, increasingly exploiting its character. And because that is precisely the result of capitalist development, whatever methods you use, whatever governance and management is there, that is precisely why the dialogue - which we have watched in recent days and in the context of the state budget debate - is precisely what is the best, the Government or the Civic Anti-Civilisation, to manage the extreme poverty phenomena? To make the redistribution of poverty: the less poor to pay for the poorest, while capital, business groups, are unavoidable. That is why we also see from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative the need to maintain the benefits, the charity benefits and the management of the extremes of poverty. On the other hand, while the New Democracy responds, by even putting it in the Constitution, by even prescribing the minimum guaranteed income. Because neither the most optimistic defenders of the capitalist system believe - and New Democracy - that after the years of growth, if there is such growth, the position of the wider people will be improved. And from this point of view, what are both trying together, and New Democracy and SYRIZA, and the other assisting parties? They are trying to achieve a reduction in demands, that is to say, the people are at peace with certain outbursts of charity and not demand the satisfaction of the needs. And whatever parts cannot incorporate it, to deal with the outbreaks of resistance, which exist, they are enlisting authoritarianism. Because either with the carrot or the whip, they want to prevent the manifestation and generalization of these resistances. So we have employers' terrorism in both the times of previous governments and today. After all, your civil democracy stops outside the factory gates, with threats, blackmail, redundancies on the part of the most innovative workers. We have a legislative framework, which is increasingly becoming more authoritarian, to deal with workers' struggles, such as strikes, for example. SYRIZA, flagrantly, brought this change because he wanted to give BSE tests that he's a good kid. Because it had no financial benefit from the measure it took for the strikes. But he also confirmed the Criminal Code. While in SYRIZA's new Criminal Code all the penalties have been reduced, only two have increased, disrupting the operation of services and disrupting transportation. That is to say, the farmers, the students and the students who claim. That is why the 'leaving schools' and the 'agricultural offices'. Of course, the New Democracy has gone further than that by e-mailing and moving further away from the culture of social automation towards those who are on the road. After all, state repression is the result of the "law and order", because the urban state is the organized violence of the exploiters. The character does not change, whatever party is in urban governance, whether it is New Democracy, SYRIZA or KINAL. Because the rule of law is the law of exploiters and because behind formal equality there is the essential and real inequality resulting from capitalist exploitation. I would like to say two - three examples today, just. In Thessalonica, we had an unnecessarily attack on police forces against mobilisation to protect first home that was being auctioned. The "PRAKTIKER" employer in Mandra called the police, so that elections would not take place or check who goes to vote in the club. In Kefalonia, the school cleaners are on a job prejudicial to the payment of prizes. They are the 300 euros that school cleaning machines get and claim their jobs. We had mobilisation of labor unions and youth organisations against the HYTA in the Race. We had mobilised this afternoon against the state budget, but also with practical solidarity between migrant workers and refugees in Scaramaga and Shhsto. This is the moral superiority of the working class, which arises, stems and is determined by its historic mission, i.e. as a moratorium on the exploitation of capitalist system. The multiplication of these resistance outbreaks, the coordination of action, the joint organized struggle is what you fear New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL and others and you try, either by whip or by carrot, to incorporate it and castrate it. This JRC will not allow it. It will reveal and reveal daily the convening of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL to the common strategic objective, which is no more than the integration of the labour and people's movement under a foreign flag, as part of the so-called 'national interest'. It is a national interest which leads to the submission of the working class under the interests of the bourgeoisie, which leads to the submission of the working class under imperialist designs. The result of these national objectives, national unity, is nothing but the people being lost all the time. Because permanently lost are the peoples, the working class and the Greek people. They are the ones who will bleed, either with imperialist peace and the pistol in the front or with the imperialist war. The real way out lies in emancipation from the logic of integration under national objectives, the emancipation of the working class and the rest of the people's layers, which at the heart of this emancipation must enter all the people's needs and how these people's needs will be met. So it is obvious that the real opponent must enter the target. And it's a real rival to the working class and to all the popular strata it was, it's and it's gonna be the capitalist profit, a capitalist profit that shields it from this exploitation system. Because an alternative proposal for workers is not another form of urban governance, Mr Tsakalotos, nor, of course, the third memorandum you have brought. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Because the alternative proposal, the real, realistic way out for the working class and the rest of the populace are the overthrow of this system, so that they can live with their needs. Because history has proved that workers can do without employers and even protagonists. While, on the contrary, the other cannot happen. In other words, employers cannot live without the working class, because it alone can be exploited. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Hetas from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on our way to the end. I think my colleague Mr Lebanese said that it was fifty-two hours, maybe it was fifty-four now, another two. Fifty-four hours of sterile, meaningless, cheap-cut party disputes between New Democracy and SYRIZA. Now see what we have to deal with, ladies and gentlemen. We have to deal with the right, we have to deal with the left. Fairy tales! It's a well played project, with such stunned controversies, just to make them discrete, if you want, the camps, to have a field of confrontation and atrocities. On the substance, you know that very well, you are the same thing. I am not the only one to come to that conclusion. There are too many enthusiasms who are watching us right now. One of them is Panagiotis, who contacted me with an e-mail. If you cared about who Panagiotis and every Panagiotis, every Greek citizen, we might not have reached the point where we have arrived today. So he writes to me: "I was hired with a SYRIZA government with a salary of 550 euros for daily, nine-hour work, with a degree, postgraduate, with foreign languages, with seminars. I woke up with government New Democracy. Nothing has changed in my life." You're the same, you're unacceptable! I want to tell you something and I address the New Democracy colleagues. I know it's Christmas. You don't have to have such a mood to make such gifts to SYRIZA. You make a huge gift to SYRIZA! Why did people vote against SYRIZA? Because from where he said it was left, it suddenly got more right than right, tossed the tires and shirts and the "killers of the people, Americans" and ate at the same tables as the Americans. Isn't that what SYRIZA did? That's what he did. SYRIZA signed memos, applied them in the best possible way and on the left they became more right than the rightists. And where they collected the outcry of the Greek people, they have been condemned by the Greek people, you go back and give them the left. And you fall into the trap of their own, what they set up by force, by police force. And now they remembered how sensitive they are, now they remembered playing left-wing. And you follow. We still have this separation. They're doing their best game. They're rubbing their hands. It's a huge gift you make to the most right-wing people on the right. They are the ones who ruled for four and a half years and followed the memorandum so closely. Only they could bring it to fruition. No one else! Greece would have been burned if SYRIZA were not here and we all know it, in the Chamber, very well. You're the same. Only those who are party blind voters do not see that New Democracy and SYRIZA are the same. My proposal is that in the coming elections - because on the big issues, on the important issues, nothing changes in your policy - to 'download' a single vote and the slogan should be: 'All perfect, all of themselves.' In any case, I cannot now hear Mr Lebanese talking about the forty-five years of post-population and say that good things have happened. Clearly good things have happened. However, do not forget, Mr Levane, Mr Loverdos, ladies and gentlemen, today, you - and many of you with a very active role, that is, fierce policies linked to the past - that you have put the country on the rocks, which you have charged a Greece, which has insulted the Greeks and have condemned them for the next hundred years to be enslaved to the foreign yoke. You've been doing this in forty-five years. It wasn't the country from virginity. We didn't blow up all of a sudden and landed here. You worked here, in this sacred space, forty-five years, and you put most of you together. And I'm moving on. For the budget, I will only say two things. We have them analysed, and I think that the President will then make a detailed report. Your tax reliefs are in gift packet and are plastic. People know that. You are also talking about reducing unemployment. I really wonder what country you live in. If you live in that country that has been closed down because of a crisis - it is countless - and if you do not have one in your families, in your surroundings, people who have been unemployed for years. I will go to Thessaloniki, to my neighbour and truly my dear Minister for Macedonia - Thrace, Mr Karaoglou, whom I have heard before. Now or it is because, Mr Karaoglu, I have been working a long time and I have fifteen days in Athens that have changed or lived in another city for the past twenty-seven years. I heard about investments, I heard about money, I heard about opportunities, I heard about upgrades, I heard about a thousand two. I left a beautiful, beautiful, beautiful, doll, but unfortunately, miserable, poor, jobless, unprofessional, without public transport - it is not only the New Democracy's fault - that with rotten buses, they cannot move. I left a town like this and suddenly heard you describe me today as a fairy tale, an incredible city of opportunities that we should live there. God, on Friday we'll be back for the holidays. I hope to see, Mr. Karaoglu...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u180	You're so missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u181	I'm so missing! Thessaloniki has therefore changed for the last fifteen days! It doesn't explain any differently. We are going on two very serious issues, ladies and gentlemen, and I address both Greek women and Greeks who are listening to us at this very important moment of the budget. These are two important issues, which are also connected containers, you know. It is Greek-Turkish - I have heard both the Ministers and the Ministers responsible - and it is also the huge issue of illegal immigration. As far as Greek-Turkish is concerned, I would like to say that we are ostriching. Erdogan says what he wants, does what he wants, whoever wants, whoever he wants, and what he wants, and unfortunately, we have the illusion that we have achieved his diplomatic isolation. I think we should get our heads out of the sand and face reality. As far as illegal immigration is concerned, for every illegal immigrant who enters the country you are charging the Greeks, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, with one more responsibility, as if the Greeks already do not have enough responsibility. And it is not enough that I want illegal immigrants and every day we have a report, a report - three hundred, four hundred, five hundred -, they come out and weep illegal immigrants in the media and in our country's squares, that we are supposedly not treating them well. You saw the new, set up BBC report, which was directed by the NGOs to say they're dying, wanting to kill themselves, etc.Huh? It was yet another story against our country, against Greece, against Greece. Listen, invoking emotion - because it's very easy for everyone to do - is the first class of cheap journalism. And what do we create? On the one hand we have the sensitive ones, on the other hand we have the unconscious ones, and "give the kick to turn around, fairy tales to begin", begin confrontation, sensitive and unconscious. It's not like that. You keep lying to the Greeks. The world voted for you on two important issues: illegal immigration and Macedonian. Oh, and since I said Macedonian, it's today. Look at the pride here! It's the picture that will never forget a Greek woman and no Greek woman. In Prespes, Mr. Kotzias, who we do not know when, because he had such an interest in signing, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Zaev. Do you know what this publication is, ladies and gentlemen? It says here that TELECME, the largest telecommunications company in Skopje, sends automated written messages to anyone entering Skopje. What we say here 'Welcome to Greece' is 'Welcome to Macedonia'. Not "North" or "North" or "Netherlands" or "Playa". ‘Welcome to Macedonia’. I am tabling this for the Minutes and I would very much ask you to address the Skopje provocation, which is still causing us so much now. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are five months government and you really have no plan for illegal immigration. You've screwed up. Every ten days you change plan, you're in panic and you can't deal with it. Today - I read it a moment ago - the Special Secretary of First Reception, Mr Manos Logottis, said: "A hundred thousand illegal immigrants are waiting in 2020." The Special Secretary of First Reception said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Colleague, you have one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u183	I shall conclude, Mr President. Don't exhaust the rigour on me. They were all talking for 15 minutes. I'll talk 11.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u184	I'm here now. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u185	It's Christmas days. Don't be tough on me. I wonder how many thousands of illegal immigrants have to arrive to make a decision to take drastic measures. We've been through this. You know who these are. Come on, let's get it over with. I speak with soul pain, because in national matters we must be united and logical. It has been proposed for weeks by Mr Velopoulos to convene political leaders. At the time the government triumphs about diplomatic victory, neighbours daily engage in provocative bars, not only in the words, but in FIR violation, with continuous equipment, with ultramodern drones landed in the Occupied Territories and lately with the presentation of the rifle sniper made entirely in Turkey. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the time, ladies and gentlemen, when Erdogan draws out maps dictates, trespassing our national sovereignty, we build infrastructure for illegal immigrants and the Greek Army distributes hail to illegal immigrants. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Heta. I'm trying not to delay the process, because if you're late for going to Thessaloniki, you can start the subway! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-eight students and students and three teachers from my country, from the 3rd Gymnasium Tripolis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor from Mera25. I think you'll be within nine minutes, 'cause your Chief talks next.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u187	I promise. I've never looked so high. It's the first time so nice and fresh faces in here. Be sure to come!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u188	It's from Arcadia. Don't forget that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u189	It's from your country. That's why they're so nice and fresh. Ladies and gentlemen, we talked about the government's budget yesterday. I don't have much to say. Since the Minister responsible, Mr Staikoras, is here, I would like to say that he is, in our opinion, as we have told you to all the tons, a budget that has been a little one-way, guaranteeing benefits to the very wealthy people of this country and also by pressing further the very poor of this country, who have been pressed for twelve years already. But regardless of that, I will ask you directly and I would like an answer if you have time and you want to do so. I'm an actor. I have no special knowledge of finance. And very recently I became a politician and became a politician. But you are also a valid and highly valid economist. Do you honestly think that an economy that is in this situation, that has officially bankrupt - will need money very soon - which has an officially bankrupt public sector, which has been officially bankrupt by the majority of its households, which has everything bankrupt, which is a fourfold bankrupt economy, can have the slightest chance of recovering with a primary surplus for the next year in the budget that you are depositing 3.5% and at the same time a tax advance on all companies in this country at 95%? It's a little graphic, of course, 5% reduction. I repeat that I am an actor, but you are a very good economist. It is clear that under these circumstances no economy can recover. The backbone of the Greek economy is small and medium-sized enterprises. How do you anticipate, like the previous ones, that there will be the natural persons who have them, that they will not be dead, and that the companies will function and will not have put up a locker? They've put a hundred and sixty thousand padlocks. And after all these companies do these things, how do you expect them to have the same revenue so that you can keep them from now? I'm not saying it personally. All the Memorandum Governments do it. It's a recipe that excludes recovery. I really don't understand our former SYRIZA comrades. I really do not understand why SYRIZA has asked again today, through his very sympathetic and dear Mr Tsakalotou, a wide-ranging front against the Government of New Democracy. On your occasion, dear companions, you had it in your hands when you had the vast popular front of 62% of the entire Greek people immediately after the referendum. And you missed this opportunity. You wasted it. You know how? Finding out that by then you had delusional. So now, what front are you asking us to fix? The front of a progressive delusion? I'm not making fun of it. I say this because, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we continue to firmly believe that the only realistic solution to the immediate threat of total destruction of our country is those most delusional to you. They are neither illegitimate nor never have there been such a thing. Five days now you all repeat to us all that you are triumphant about and we should thank you for bringing us out of the memoranda, finally bringing the end of the crisis and the return to the normality of the economy. You are not, of course, in any way, to point it out exactly the same thing as that of the government. You're not. In too many areas you have been more progressive, you have taken more care of the poor, but you have not really taken care of them. You didn't take care of them because you brought in a third memorandum. You really triumph five days now for a return to normality, which you supposedly have succeeded and others are now renegotiating. What return? What regularity, dear companions? Really what regularity? Is there absolutely anything that's normal in this country? Is it normal that 40% of private workers are paid EUR 253 mixed and have working tyres? It's official ELSTAT's information I'm telling you. Officials. Is it normal that there are still about one million unemployed of our compatriots and they will probably increase in the future? Normally, you seem to have relocated during the last decade, seven hundred and fifty thousand young children from the country, who will probably never return? Is it normal to grant national sovereignty which your former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, has repeatedly admitted when he publicly stated that he disagrees with his policy and regrets that he is exercising it, but what does he do? Is it normal that, according to the Panhellenic Doctors Federation, six thousand doctors are away from the ESS immediately? I'm very fond of Mr. Blonde. I think it's one of the SYRIZA ministers who did the best. But still, after the best work he's done, he left an empty six and a half thousand doctors. The feds tell them. Is it normal that ten thousand teachers are missing from our education? Four and a half years you've ruled. I'm sorry, but don't ask us to make a progressive front, because you've lost a little bit of your progressiveity. Ladies and gentlemen, this concerns all of you. "LIFO" some time ago on her site posted a documentary photo, which appears to be a woman bound back there as an ISIS jihadist, arrested by American forces, sculpted and covered with hooded face. It's a photo. There is no interpretation. All this reminds me of me is a man of an ISIS soldier arrested by the American militant corps. In the photo, which has already caused pan-European reactions, around seven men of MATs appear next to the woman, who, according to a police statement, are involved in the evacuation operation of the occupied buildings in Koukaki. For the time being, it has not yet been clarified whether the photograph is from the courtyard of the occupied building or from a adjacent building, no matter how much this woman is involved in occupations in any way or simply a neighbor. And if you are wondering why "LIFO" is likely to be and not entirely relevant to the occupations, I would inform you that it does so because earlier other citizens denounced in the neighborhood that they were beaten and then filed, because they did not allow MATs to invade their home without a warrant. At home, I repeat. A mother and wife of praying neighbors, always according to "LIFO", said: "I saw a man of MATs to have pressed my son's head on the floor. Then I went up to see what other men of MAT said to me “go away, shut up, because we'll throw you off the stairs”. The woman who denounced the incident, as well as her husband and son, I repeat, are just neighbors and reside next door. Watch out. EL.AS. by an official announcement, it does not deny the incident or the fact that the citizens concerned were neighbours and not captives. She also admits that the two members, father and son, of the neighboring family, were inclined to do so because they blocked her business. But, well, if you'll excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of family was that? Violent? There were obviously various MATs attempting to evacuate buildings. Right? They knew neither of whom nor of how many conquests they would encounter in the buildings nor of how much resistance they would resist. Or they'd be magicians. So the MATs, as in any case, of course arrived there with a very large number of men and of course very well equipped men. What, then, had this three-member family finally eaten, only two members of which were able to block the entire police operation, according to the police? Did Popey's spinach eat? Super Goofy's peanuts had eaten? Or the magic potion of the U.S. Gauls? So the bio-engineering family, ladies and gentlemen, officially denounces that police forces have tried to invade its own home. And it's interesting, I say "individual", because, as you know, I have a weakness for the Minister of Development, Mr. Adonis Georgiades, who is exuding when weeks ago members of the "Rubicon" flew tacks on a public road outside his house. And it came out in a statement that the good of private property is respected even to the barbarians - I am on purpose - even to the barbarians of Africa or Asia. Of course, it has nothing to do with the good itself, as the members of the 'Rubicon' have, I repeat, thrown turf on a public road. But here the family denounces that insurgent civilians, an orderly force of the Greek Police, went to her house and demanded that she go in because she suspected there might be squats, without a warrant for arrest. When she, as she had every right - you know, most lawyers are here -, she refused, then just the two of the three were arrested. Is that a democracy, ladies and gentlemen? And we'll get this over with. You have to bear in mind that we are not questioning the over-representation of the Greek police at all. You have in mind that we know very well that these people are our people. Does it look like a oxymomile to you? They're our people. Do you know why they're our people? Because the policemen are poor and intimidated. and they are people whose policies have condemned them to their poverty and to their oppression. So these people, who are defenceless of you and who are supposed to be hypocritically pretending to be their followers, defend only one force in Parliament, and that power is us, be it from the JRC. We have nothing with the Greek Police and its men, who are all victims of your own exploitation, your policies. We love them, we support them, but we will not allow you to create them and expose them to the idea that they may act uncontrollable. This is your achievement and not the men of the Greek Police, who are our people's children and only we defend them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u190	Thank you. The President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a budget is not just numbered in a file, it is figures that condensate the wishes of the rulers and hide the hardships of the powerless. It is the marching leaf of the state ship that the captain draws up, but unfortunately with his back on the bow, just looking back, not only back, but only by discerning what was happening six months ago. It's hard to do with a finance minister's work. This is why, above all, the budget, ladies and gentlemen, is the incarnation of the values of the prisoners and, at the same time, a bet that will be judged by the feeling of the triumph that comes. And all of this, all these difficulties in a normal state. But the Greek state, ladies and gentlemen, is not a normal state. That's why you, like previous ones, are not governors, you're not his real governors. After nine years of indebtedness, the helmet is in the hands of others. They're probably moving it with remote control from Brussels and Frankfurt. With the boat's engines burning off, its boat full of holes, its crew deported and liquidated in favour of the predator funds on the one hand and the high priests of the interlocutory that you have been running, ladies and gentlemen of the government for five months. With your budget, I have to say that you hide where we are and voluntarily ignore the triumph that comes. You are planning a course that, once again, devours our country to economic, social, ecological and non-viability. Tonight, when you applaud the fact that your majority will vote for this budget, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, keep in the back of your mind from now on: In twelve - twenty-four months you will have renounced it, you will have renounced it, as happened with every budget for the last decade. That's for granted. Your budget is the culmination of a ten-year culmination of a four-fold bankruptcy: state, banks, households, small and medium-sized enterprises and larger companies. A fraudulent bankruptcy, which is interrupted only by periodic celebrations of a recovery that does not come, because it is fictitious. A recovery that is fictitious, because it is built on the sand created by the ruins of the social economy. A recovery, which probably a corpse's gel on the cement boards of the permanent austerity reminds of. I have referred to every budget - and not just to yours - to the incarnation of the values that he is drafting. So let us try to distinguish your values by reading the budget, and that before we enter a debate on its sustainability and technological adequacy. What are the values that are emerging, highlighting and reflecting your budget? If we look at the fact that in education, in health, in culture and in welfare we have a cost accomplishment, if not a reduction, rather the values of a neoliberal barbarism show. If we look at public investments that are made at the same levels of its collapse after 2011, the transfer of deinvestment in the public sector what value does it show? Probably the value of underdevelopment. If we look at the fact that you in your budget predict that in the next 12 months natural persons, which we all agree are overtaxable, will increase the State's guarantee by 323 million, while legal persons will reduce their contribution to the state by 440 million. This on the basis, in the history of the last ten years, where VAT, the most classic tax, is constantly increasing the rate it contributes to state taxation. Only in the last two years on SYRIZA, between 2017 and 2018, while government tax revenues increased by 2.05%, VAT revenues increased by 4.37%. And I'm going to something very small, but you know, Minister, from the little ones the human soul seems to be. I see you've been putting a decade's limitation on the rental allowance. It is cut and sewn in the context of intolerance so that legal immigrants, those who have been legitimised over the last ten years, do not take it either. Let us now come to the technical adequacy of your budget. Where we should be able to find a basis for consensus and convergence in terms of numbers. Deep down, as far as I can see, you must agree that we are living in a debt colony. Election and post-election are also being formulated - and you are doing well, because you are right in this - as a prerequisite for the real recovery of the country, the reduction of the primary surpluses. But you're saying they won't leave us. And why won't they leave us? They won't let us, because, to let us, they have to accept the restructuring of debts. You agree, therefore, that only debt restructuring will lead us to recovery, to debt restructuring which the troika does not discuss, and you do not demand, by trapping you in the primary surpluses, which you say do not allow for real recovery. If that's not a confession that we're in a debt colony, even indirectly, I don't know what it is. What must happen to get the country out of this debt prison? I'll say it quite simply. The rate of increase in our incomes must be significantly higher than the rate of increase in our debt mountain. Quite simply, the mid-weight rate is significantly less than the rate of growth of nominal income. Minister, a plea as Mera25: it is not possible that your budget text does not mention the mid-term interest rate. It's your obligation. You're hiding that. Why are you hiding it? It is not possible for the Greek citizen, the Greek Member of Parliament, not to know what the average rate of increase in the mountain of public debt is. Because we're hearing a lot. They are misleading the media and politicians of the world talking about negative interest rates, particularly low loan interest rates. Yeah, but you know it. I know you know that. The House knows. Does the Greek people know that, for example, from the 375 billion public debts, to take the first Memorandum, how much we still owe them from the first Memorandum? It's GLF 56 billion. What's the interest rate, Minister? Have you said that? Have you put it in the budget? It's 3.8%, a coupon rate. It is unacceptable that we still pay 3.8% interest on the first Memorandum. To be specific, 3,776%. And 3.5% if it were, again, taco-circular is, in a period of zero and negative interest rates, when EFSF and ESM lends us with 1.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u192	How much did we pay before?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u193	We paid 3.8%. That's how we paid, that's how we pay. Take the piece that's left of the bonds after the destructive PSI, it's about 18 billion. How much do we pay for this? We pay 4.8%, in all ages we pay 4.8%. For the IMF's 10 billion, which is slowly transported, 4.9%. In the medium term, you will allow me to say that, since the government does not say so, we pay 2.65% for our entire debt. In other words, the debt mountain, these 375 billion, is increasing 2.65%. What does that mean? It means that if the rate of growth of nominal income is below 2.65%, the country's debt rate is increasing. That's what it means. It means that the debt colony is deepening. That is why the rating houses, no matter how criminal they are, as long as they are, have reason not to give investment grades, investment great, to Greek debt and to use this as a press, as an excuse for the European Central Bank not to include us in quantitative relaxation. Here is how the great paradox on the one hand explains the Greek State to be deeply bankrupt and, on the other hand, the bonds that come out sour and where, for sale, are sold, sold at very low interest rates. Because a large, some 90%, part of the debt is locked in official institutions with high interest rates. That is not what the investors are interested in, to the extent that you and Mrs Langard now, Mr Draghi before, agree on the negotiable part of the debt. I have a question again, Mr Stavoura, about the 'HRAKLE' you went through the other day, and unfortunately you were not here in the debate, you should be here in the debate, not having your State Secretary. It was a central bill for the debt-government we live in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u194	It was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u195	When it was me and I talked, you weren't. I'm sorry, you should be in the overall context and be the rapporteur, because it was as important as the public debt this bill. I have a question. The guarantees at 12 billion will be recorded in the debt? And if you don't record them, what right won't you record them? It increases the passiveness of the Greek public. A private person when he gives a guarantee to his child, to his friend, to a business, that's recorded in his passive. You do not record it in your passive way, as we do not record - all the Greek governments, not only you - the 56 billion guarantees given to the banks' IOUs from Mr. Aloskoufis' time to this day. And a third objection. I asked the Treasury a question weeks ago. Today, what is this amount of the guarantees of the banks' IOUs? And I got this sad answer from Mr. Dog. He exposes you, Mr. Minister, Mr. Skakakis with this answer. First, he forgot that he was talking to a former Minister of Finance, who knows. Here it speaks of EUR 15 billion, forgetting to say about each bank, that is, 15 billion by four, maybe it was for six in 2008, because when I was the Minister of Finance, these guarantees were 56 billion. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It is not possible for the Greek people, the Greek taxpayer, to have guaranteed tens of billions of dollars for bankers and for you not to answer a question MEP for the amount of these guarantees today and indeed for what the interest rate is, because I will tell you something, which no Member is aware of. The interest rate of these IOU banks, ladies and gentlemen, since 2008, especially at the time I was the Minister of Finance, do you know how much it was? It was 11%. I'd like to know today how much it is. What does Mr. Skolakis say to me? First of all, it is exposed because it says that they are not IOUs, they are bonded, as if IOUs were not bonded and the bonded securities were not IOUs. And he refuses to answer. That, you know, you need to take care of it. When a Member asks for evidence from the Treasury, you have to give it up and not hide it. I return to the issue of debt sustainability. Intermediate interest rate 2.65%. What will be the growth of the nominal? Will 2.65% be enough? You're talking about 2.8%. A return to past failures of the Memorandum Arc of the Memorandum Governments, I think it will help. Minister, I made a small calculation for your own use. In the years of the memoranda from 2010 until today, the average deviation of the rate of growth of nominal income from actual growth, which was found one to two years later, was 1.58%. We're on average 58%. During the SYRIZA period this difference was much less, it was approximately 0,25%. So the huge discrepancy was in the years before SYRIZA. Last year the deviation was 0.5%, a year of 0.5%. In other words, we have a minimum deviation of 0.5%. You predict 2.8%. Even with your forecasts, the odds are that we will be much lower than 2.65%. In other words, our debt will rise. Look. Beyond these figures, we have a reality here in Europe and in the international economy for which I had warned you, I had spoken in August, you noted it, I appreciated it. We have been confirmed as Merra25 for what we said in August since the October figures. In particular, industrial production in the Eurozone in October 2019 compared to October 2018 decreased 5% compared to the beginning and mid-2018. In the meantime industrial production in Germany, which, as we know very well, is the steam engine - it is cold in Germany, we - pneumonia, is less than 6.3%. With regard to the current month, in December, now that we are talking about the IHS Markit index on market confidence and activity of the German factories has fallen from 44.1% in November to 43.4% in December, when last year it was 55%. And 50%, you know that, but also for those who do not know it, it is stability. When it comes to 50%, they say that nothing will change, under 50% means recession. At the same time, we know that the Eurozone is slowing down with regard to GDP as a whole, not only industrial production, from 2.4% across the Eurozone in 2017, to 1.9% in 2018, to 1.1% this year, a slowdown that casts our own growth and increases the margin of error in assessing growth rates. What do I mean by that? Minister, our assessments are falling out as low as the growth rate of the Eurozone is. That's a statistical truth. The growth rate of the Eurozone, the growth of the euro area, is therefore falling. Know that this means that your goals are more precarious than they would be in the past. What does that mean? It means that, at best, between now and 2030, the debt-to-GDP ratio will only have risen to 181%. In the meantime, we may have the international downturn that seems to have. I would remind you again that last August the United States interest rate curve was reversed. Whenever this has happened in the last hundred and twenty years, twelve to eighteen months later, that is, at the end of 2020 with the beginning of 2021 there will be a significant recession. If this recession is not important - because I do not want to jeopardise - and it is the order of a fall in our GDP growth rate, the nominal one, by 1%, do you know what this means to Greek debt as a percentage of GDP? That in 2030 he'll have gone to 233%. That is the situation we are in today. In other words, your budget is in danger of staying in history - and unfortunately, I believe it will remain in history - as another wishing list of another memorial night. Ladies and gentlemen, a summary of where we are. We have a debt of 375%. We have a GDP of 188%. We have a significant current account deficit again. The only good thing about the crisis was that the current trade deficit has disappeared - indeed, when you were Deputy Minister of Finance, in 2014 - and remained missing until 2016. Then he began to rise again. We now have a current account deficit of 6 billion. It is interesting to compare three numbers which are very close and reflect the grim situation we face as a country and which you face as a Minister of Finance. We have a current trade deficit of 6 billion, we have a primary surplus of 6.7 billion and we have negative net investment this year again 7.44 billion. When we talk about investment, ladies and gentlemen, remember that we are in the tenth year of negative net investment, which, if you like, constitute the biggest brake on any growth. And what do you suggest? You propose 'yes' to these primary surpluses, which you too admit are the reason why we are here, which is why VAT, despite the increase in rates, despite the situation we have seen recently, is now total collection at 2011 levels. Business tax is below 2011 levels - and 2011 was not a good year - while at the same time, taxes on natural persons are far higher than almost ever. So here's why the escape from the primary surplus limitation and, therefore, the debt restructuring is not something that can wait, it's not something that we have to expect to happen to us sometime when things go. It won't work if this restructuring isn't the first time. When we have a primary surplus of 3.5%, ladies and gentlemen, and a current trade deficit of 2%, then even about one billion of tax evasions to the extent that a part of it goes to imports and increases the current deficit requires more than doubled the net investment in relation to savings in order to get the targets out. Not even your budget dares such a prediction and how dare you, when we have clean investments -4% of GDP? Secondly, when we have a primary surplus so high, over 1% -1.5% - even 2% and 2.5% are high for the sizes of the Greek economy - then, Minister, what is done and you know that, the minimum is done. In other words, we lock the primary surplus in its minimum. What does that mean to you, as Minister of Finance, for the government to use fiscal and government budgets as a mechanism to depreciate vibrations that are unexpectedly coming from both abroad and within the country? It means that this possibility is extinct. At times, the primary surplus should be higher, sometimes lower, but with these commitments of the troika, the relentlessness of the primary surplus target is the basis of discontent, is the basis of the fictitiousness of the supposed recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, your lack of courage in your budget reflects the lack of basic virtues it should have. In the end, you dare not argue seriously, politically or scientificly for basic choices of your own budget. You're hiding behind irresponsible obedience, from “What can we do? We are being forced to do so." Yesterday, Prime Minister, I heard you were with Mrs Christine Lagard. Excellent lady, former IMF, now ECB. I don't know what you've been talking about, I've read some reports. I wonder if you discussed what you should discuss, which was the first thing I discussed with Mrs Lagard, when we met on those difficult days of 2015. The first thing she said to me, after I explained to her about debt restructuring, about debt swaps, which was the best way to do it, she criticized me that I wasn't radical enough. And he told me - is Mr Tsakalotos here, ask him why he was here - that the GLF 56 billion, the first Memorandum, to which I referred before, at the high interest rate of 3.8% must be cut unreasonably and without a second debate. Did you discuss this? Did you ask her for this? Here is how you could reduce the objective of the primary surplus by doing this debt restructuring, by cancelling this piece, like that and Mr. Paul Thompson - I must tell you - he insisted that it was a prerequisite for the Greek recovery. You have not, however, discussed this. Did you talk about what? Reading the newspapers, you discussed how all pledges will be fully liquidated in the private sector, in private debt. In other words, how will the hunting of these people who are caught in the prison of private debt, of red loans, become even more systematic. Earth and water you gave one more time. Expand the impoverishment of those who remain and the constant fleeing of young people who can leave. This is your political choice, ladies and gentlemen of the government, which you present as a natural phenomenon which could not be otherwise. You choose austerity, claiming just like SYRIZA before you, that there is no alternative to austerity. Steady of your opinion. You do not dare, after all, argue in favour of the basic choices in this budget, by invoking the talent between "hey, we have it" and "God has it". That's how it doesn't come out of a budget. That is why your obedience to the troika is irresponsible, Prime Minister. And it makes sense to resort to enthusiasm and aggression, Mr. Minister, to dare to refer to the first half of 2015 and its cost, to present 2015 to the year of the crisis and to yourself as honorers. You honors? I remind you that in 2008 GDP was 242% and when, Mr. Stakoura, that winter morning we were in the Ministry of Finance and you handed me over the Treasury with Mr. Hardouvelis, how much was GDP? It was 178.66%. From 242% it was 179%. I mean, minus 26.2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u196	For growth, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u197	You want to talk about growth?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u198	For growth, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Stavura, don't be exposed. This is where I have the evidence. No, Mr. Stakoura. You're gonna make me teach you right now, and I don't want to. [[Sound - laughter - applause from the New Democracy Ward]] I don't want it, but you're imposing it on me, and that's why I'm gonna do it. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] In 2013, search ELSTAT's data. This morning I looked at them. This morning. Look at GDP at current prices. In 2013 it was 180.654 million, i.e. 181 billion. On December 31, 2014, it was 178.7 billion. We had another recession in 2014. What you guys are looking for don't look for. I'll explain it to you, Mr. Stakoura. The only way to prove that in 2014 you brought growth, do you know who it is? Do it not at current prices, but at real prices. In other words, take into account inflation, something and you must do when we have inflation. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Listen to me, 'cause you might learn something. We have deflation, in other words reductions in prices. What did you do in 2014? The real GDP - which you invoke - is a fraction. In the numerator we have the euro GDP at current prices, and in the denominator we have the consumer price index. You succeeded in dropping both the numerator and the denominator. And you were happy because-- what happened? - The denominator fell less quickly than the numerator. Do you know what that is, Mr. Stakoura? What did you bring in 2014? The absolute recession. Only in absolute recession do we have a fall in prices and GDP reduction. Because you know, Mr Staikora, the average Greek and the Greek public are not assisted when prices and wages fall. Because debts don't fall at the same time. Debt and slavery deepens. There you left us in 2014. It is the definition of ‘the grapes of anger’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u200	Tell us. What did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u201	What did we achieve? At least we didn't sign. Unlike what you do last night with Mrs. Lagard! [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stagioras has mentioned - I want to honour my political opponents and I read very carefully what they say - at the cost of creative ambiguity in the country. Mr. Stavura, creative ambiguity didn't cost. You have cost the country, the inappropriate, inappropriate, pedestrian clarity, with which irresponsibly, inhumanly and disobediently obeying the troika's orders, Mr Stakoura. While you were Deputy Minister of Finance, GDP collapsed from 220 billion to 179 billion. The funds - which the Greek citizen borrowed - were repaid to the banks at the time when you were the Treasury. Why? Why did you take money from the taxpayers Europeans in the name of Greek taxpayers, give them to the banks without taking the holes underneath, which was red loans. The International Monetary Fund, in June 2014, talked about a complete depreciation of banks and a direct need to recapitalisation between 15 and 20 billion, when their capitalisation had already fallen to 15 to 20 billion. In other words, you have already thrown them out a long time before we entered the government. And you dare present yourself as honors! That day you handed me over to the Ministry, do you remember the reserves you left me? Do you remember what the state's cash were? You have had the courage - and I appreciate that - in the first half of 2015, after the Ministry was taken over from me, to go out and admit that we had twenty-three days of reserves, with one rejected by the troika e-mail Hardouvelis, with a four-week margin from the day we entered the government until Mr Draghi and the European Central Bank shut us down, with a second memorandum, to whose quarter there were 7.2 billion left. Even the "yes" I would have told Mr. Dieselblum when he came and asked for "get and water" on January 27, - whenever it was - in January 2015, what would I get? It was then that you called here to sign what you gave me, that is 100% tax advance, the primary surpluses that you now call them "blooded" along with the JRC and do well. What would I take if I said "yes" then? Something you didn't say or Mr. Hardouvelis. That's why he sent that e-mail, which was returned to him. I'd take 7.2 billion to pay back what? What did you let me pay back in 2015? You have left me 22 billion, with interest rates in the stratosphere, with markets completely broken down. And next year was 18 billion. In other words, the third memorandum was a one-way road, since we did not make the debt restructuring. You honorers, who had left 4.5% surplus target and while Diaselblum was threatening with the closure of the banks, if I dare talk about debt restructuring that you must do today, to have the primary surpluses, which you believe are prerequisites for any chance of growth? When he threatened me with this, you said "watch, Gerun". You are the faces of the crisis, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Mr. Stavoura, Mr. Mitsotakis, I do not hesitate to mess with my former comrades. I've got a lot of stitches for their fur. Especially for TINA in a left-wing Greek version, the left-wing legitimacy of the simulation of our debt colony. But, Prime Minister, I will not allow you to appear as honorees, as the solution to the problem that you and PASOK have created and which you are telling us will now solve by committing exactly the same crimes against reason, which have brought our people to despair. Ladies and gentlemen, by paraphrasing Cicero, I would remind you that the wise are guided by reason, the idiots from the instinct, the moderates from the habit and the Memorandum Governments of All Colours by the orders of the Troika, who wants our good! Mr Stavoura, drafting a budget is an excellent opportunity to learn an ancient and powerful word, 'no'. The Minister for Finance must learn to say no to his colleagues first. They always ask for more money. He must learn to say no to oligarchy, to different interests, to superintendents. However, the Minister for Finance, of a debt-government such as Greece, must say 'no' to the troika. If he does not, then both the values and the figures of his budget are doomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u202	Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, President of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a small comment as an introduction. After Mr Varoufakis - who has listened very carefully - two things may happen: Or is Varoufakis right, or are you wrong, or you and Baroufakis wrong. If you really want to see who is right or wrong, do what you were saying in the election. Make an examination of the 100 billion you yelled at the channels that they were lost by the rule of SYRIZA and Mr. Varoufakis. Do it so we can finally see who's faulted and what happened. Because that's how you covered their transmissions, as you were saying. New Democracy said 100 billion euros were lost by SYRIZA's criminal errors. Another said 70 billion, another said 60 billion. You were invoking the European Union and doing well. But why don't you, Prime Minister? Do it. It's 100 billion! You said so. I wasn't saying so. I never said that thing. You said it in the New Democracy. And you became government with that flag. Not that they close the banks is a good thing, Mr. Varoufakis. Let's talk about everything here. So let's go to the budget. Mr Stavoura, Prime Minister, the budget, in the view of the Greek Solution, is a product of creative accounting and I will prove it to you along the way. It's based on glass legs. It's clearly with a lot of vague elements and numbers that don't really come out. If you see them yourself, they don't come out. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The worst of all is that you have refreshing claims in the budget, which do not exist, does not at least apply to the operation that I am dealing with. Because most of you - I imagine in here - are not involved in business. But I, Mr President-in-Office, know that as the economy goes, they will no longer remain Greek businesses in Greece. I have made it clear to you from now on and I am speaking not as a politician or as a Member, but as an entrepreneur. In fact, therefore, the budget is doomed to fail and will fail, because you do not have a programme and you do not have a plan. It is a budget, which is based - I repeat - on a number of figures. It's very important that some people understand it. I would like, however, before I go to the budget, to talk a little bit about topicality. Tell me, Prime Minister, which country is considered normal, which country is considered to be serious, when the first news on the channels is the police operation that recaptures the conquests? In what normal country could the parties discuss in the Greek Parliament whether a policeman beat a civilian, whether they were in the house of an owner? What is this normality governing Greek civilian staff? When parliamentarians don't behave properly, then don't wait for a normal country. And I honestly say it with soul pain. Because I have heard former Minister of SYRIZA - listen to fellow Members to be informed - say 'Culture event the occupations in other countries of Europe in the context of anti-culture'. Christ and God bless you! I don't know, I was born in Germany, I grew up there, but that kind of anti-dumping thing doesn't exist in Germany. The occupation in Germany is not allowed, you know. Now, if it's your house and you take possession with another fifteen friends it's your right. Mr Katrugalos says so: 'This is a cultural event'! So in a short time, instead of having political events, we all take over. We should get into the houses and take them. That doesn't make sense. Mr Skourletis and other left-wing Members are coming, of course, addressing their audience and the humble instincts of their audience and talking about the violence of the police. I'll say again, violence from wherever it comes is doomed. But if they tell me a police officer in another country, say, in Venezuela, I say, in North Korea, I say, in the former Soviet Union, I say again, where the police went with roses, to talk. Unfortunately, the police - unfortunately, I repeat - will also use violence, ladies and gentlemen. And like, when you ruled, you were using the violence, opening heads of Greeks in Thessaloniki, making preventive arrests of people who were protesting about Macedonia, today don't make the baby virgins here talking about violence! Because violence, wherever it comes, is violence, whether left-wing or right-wing, or police or not. It's violence. So if you want to be honest with the political staff of the country and with politics, with the citizens, to condemn the violence at the time, when the police at the Prespecies were beating Greeks because they were shouting 'no' to give the name Macedonia, to yell at SYRIZA, when they were running and arresting people preventively, because the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Tsipras, spoke in the port of Thessaloniki and not today, because a police officer - badly - did what he did. I say this because very simply you are unfortunately investing in the Greeks' short memory. That is the problem, because the Greeks forget very easily. The Greek very easily forgets what you have done, what many have done in here. And you know? I saw you all complain about the subway. Prime Minister, I have to tell you that it's true, there's a law, I don't know why your partners didn't tell you that there was a law on the illegal strikes. There is a law, and the ignorance of law - tell your advisers - is punished. And very well you did, and you apologized. Good for you! But there's a law! There is the number 1264/82 that PASOK has done and is talking about responsibilities and even about the dismissal of civil servants who are making illegal strikes. So you don't have to legislate. There's a law. Relegate to a law that exists? We better, yeah. Since your advisers didn't know and didn't inform you, you were unrealisticly exposed. The ignorance of law is punished, even for the citizen. And he's honestly talking about disciplinary responsibilities, about civil liability by an employer. And here, because your advisors may not know, to testify in the Minutes, so, you and your advisors may have the law to inform you that you don't have to make a law. You had to do an ESA last morning, see what happened, and these gentlemen were fired, who created a huge problem in Athens, in about a million and a half people. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, we all protested. Everybody! Because some illegally made a strike. But I didn't see you on Saturday night many people from New Democracy when the Pakistani came out of Omonia and made an illegal march in the center of Athens, and it became a humor, the Greeks going to the right - left, shouting 'Allah Akbar', you protesting the same! We didn't see you protesting about Pakistani! No one has spoken of this course, the illegal one, nor has any responsibility been asked for. So, you, and you, too, behave. You have a mentality in a card, and that's a criminal mistake. I would also like to say something, which I think is particularly important, because I believe, Prime Minister, that you are unfortunately the same. You're the same! Unfortunately I say you're the same as SYRIZA and the New Democracy. And you're the same on many things. Here came your own, top Minister from the Step of Parliament and said something very simple: we didn't change anyone from SYRIZA. The privatisation program is SYRIZA. So either SYRIZA governs or you rule, it's the same thing! That's what he told us, Minister of the top, here from the Step of the House, that the divestment program of public property is a SYRIZA program, and it applies to you too. I do not understand why elections should be held at that time. Let's let SYRIZA rule. Why does SYRIZA save and well have to leave so that you can implement SYRIZA's program? And the proof of what I'm saying, Prime Minister, is your schedule. It's this one. You know, I'm one of the few Members of the New Democracy, who I've studied very well. I have an "visit", to study the opponent, whether it's a political opponent or anything. So seeing your programme - and I am presenting it for the Minutes - I will remind you of a few statements from you, Prime Minister, when you were Minister of New Democracy. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In 2004, you told us: 'The cost of fiscal consolidation will not be borne by the weaker people'. You'll say the same today. After the EUR 200 billion debt report, there was a shortage of resources. In 2006 you said: 'The budget marks the exit of our country from the European surveillance process'. In 2006 you said that, Prime Minister. Then we had bankruptcy. In 2013 you said: "We will have gathered public with clear organograms and clear roles". You've made the state finally hired not to say which, and it's not necessary, it's not a personal controversy. In 2014 you said: ‘Guidelines for Public Administration, which will have been chosen by genuinely meriting procedures’. Not to say now what happened with the SPS commander, to say the rest, is not on staff, it is a budget. I would like, at least, when we say something in this Parliament, to be measured, weighed and mainly studied and programmed, because we are also unfair to ourselves. So let me remind you, Prime Minister, what you promised in the election and what you did not do, because the budget is a budget. Reduce tax rate from 28% to 20% in two years. You reduced to 24% by giving tax exemptions to offshore. And that is a matter, Prime Minister! Offshore tax exemptions? You said a tax deposit from 100% to 95%. You're making fun of free professionals. You said you'd abolish it, you didn't. Development of the Public Investment Programme. It has been reduced in 2020, based on your budget, from 7.35 billion to 6.75 billion. Reduction of public investment, which in a liberal economy, Prime Minister - you have Mr Pylakakakis who is also liberal very much - you know that without public investment, Minister and Prime Minister, growth will never take place. It is not going to happen anywhere, in no country in a liberal economy, without public investment, we are not going to go ahead. I mean, I see so many contradictions that I start and I'm sad. "Extreme state" you told us, "thousands of three hundred recruits" we don't know how much it costs. You promised PPC growth in 2018 of 4%, and now you predict 2% budget growth. It says 2.2% of the IMF. So look at the contradictions in numbers. You say: 'Subsidy rate of 9% for incomes up to EUR 10,000'. Until 8,500 euros is tax-free. Gift gifts, Prime Minister. My Mr. Stavura, creative accounting is called this or, if you want, it's called communal accounting, so that we can get through to the world the message that we're making tax exemptions. If you do not make real tax exemptions, if you do not tax people from the hards of taxes, the economy will never go any further. It's very simple. And I don't understand the left hand with the owners, businessmen. If a business works well, ladies and gentlemen - believe me, I am a businessman, I do not know how many you are businessmen here, because you are all talking about business, but nobody is a businessman - if my business works well, I will hire people, I will pay salaries. That's for granted, it's not different. If I don't have money, I won't hire anyone, I'll fire people. It's a law of nature. We can't change everything in the logic of our ideology. It can't be done. We will support the entrepreneur, so that we can support the worker, it is no different. Removal, he says, of the end of trade gradually and a contribution of solidarity. It hasn't been done. The solidarity levy was abolished only on bonds interest. Reduction of main pension contributions gradually to 15% of 20%. It didn't happen. Reduction of VAT rates to 11% and 22%. It didn't happen. That's what they called in their schedule. You know, gentlemen of the New Democracy, on the channels where you were going, you didn't say anything else, that's what you said. Resurrected allowances in multitude. It didn't happen. That's not even what happened. A country that has a demographic problem, based on your budget, no care to give birth to Greeks. And I don't get it. One billion in the budget for the minimum guaranteed income. Prime Minister, it didn't happen. Why did you blame SYRIZA? I won't tell you. But I want to go to something else. Because there's too much to be said and not done, I've sat down and worked, Prime Minister, and I made you paintings. I am tabling them in the Minutes, so that you have them first read by your advisers, so that next year in the budget, if you are government, I wish you to be government, I have nothing with you and no Prime Minister of the country, as long as you do the right things - read them well so that you do not show yourself up again. Because, honestly, you're being exposed. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, then, there is a problem of perception in economics. And I tell the good colleagues in the New Democracy. Do you think, Prime Minister, that Greece's problem will be solved by investment, by foreign investment? Is that really what you think? Because I hear your ministers keep saying that, foreign investment will bring growth. Well, do you know that foreign investments never went through 2% of GDP? You know that, Prime Minister? When Greek investments, domestic investments are at 25%. And the number speaks for itself! He tells you 25% of Greeks invest in business. We need to support these investors, 25% that hurt the earth, hurt Greece, which hurt the Greek who hurt the country. It saves and well you invest in the arsenals, the offshore investors, who don't exist anyway and don't be fooled. In a country like Greece it is difficult to invest. There's no investment climate. Domestic investment, therefore, decreased much more than pay. To understand, we have contrasting results. It is reported that the State will receive in 2020 an amount of EUR 2.4 billion from the privatisations of the GOI. In other words, we will take about 2.5 billion. That is what your ministers say here and in the budget, you are doing well. But you are not saying what happens with the 2.2 billion. They won't go to the Greek people. They're going through the H.I.D. to the lenders. That's not growth. We take it from here and we take it this way. That doesn't go to the market. We sell silver, we sell gold, we sell what we have, in essence, without providing for that money to be placed on the market. Because if there is no money on the market, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, one thing will happen. Legally we're going to one more bankrupt and it's going to be more painful this time, much more painful. Revenue is therefore going abroad. A stock exchange derivatives market is being established in the energy sector. You're actually splitting up the DEPA to sell her out too. Today energy, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is the subject of wars. Do you understand? Next to us there are wars on energy, and Greece has been involved in a tour with Turkey, for that very reason, because of energy. And you come and go and sell the steam engine. What for? How will growth come? Investments do not come, the public property is sold. How will growth come? You tell me. You are claiming that the exorbitant and red private debt is not the problem. You're wrong, Prime Minister. The government's wrong. Private debt is a huge problem in our economy and I'll tell you why. Are you invoking that we are paying our debt due to low interest rates, yes or no? And because of the prolongation of the EUR 96 billion coming from 2032 onwards. So we're paying now, but we're transferring the problem to the next generation. These are tragic mistakes in the exercise of a serious policy. The next generations, what are they going to tell us? That "we covered it and brought it to us"? On the basis of this, your budget figure 4.1, Mr Stakoura, shows that the payments in 2022, which exceed EUR 8 billion cannot normally be covered. Mr. Villiardos tabled in the Minutes the Chart 4.1. Take it, Mr Staikora, and you will see that - on the basis of your own chart - this money is not paid, it does not come out, in your figures, not ours. So find ways of financing and not reduce the Public Investment Programme again. I repeat, and I'll tell you something else. PPP, Prime Minister. If Greece has no money to create state care funding, do PPP, but really PPP, not FRAPORT - PPP, not Greek - PPP. Because that's not PPP. There they are - within introductorys - 'what they get and what the investor eats'. We want the Greek state to win, to win the Greek citizen as well. I'm on my way to armour. We have a reduction in armaments, unfortunately, on the basis of the budget, Mr Stakoura. We have a reduction. I didn't see our plan to produce weapon systems. I didn't see anything specific. They're abstract. It was reduced to 258 million in 2019, instead of 336 million planned. I have a problem here, though. Prime Minister and Mr Stakoura, for the private sector there is nothing to take care of. In fact, there is no concern for the private businessman. There's nothing, no mention. You should state precisely, Mr Stakoura, the value of the assets, the deposits and the debts of each individual. I'll tell you now why I'm saying that. You are talking about a reduction in public debt when the red debt of Greeks, individuals is being launched. In other words, you have over-financed citizens, businesses over-financed, private over-borrowded,'red' essentially means that they have an impossibility to consume products, which means they have an impossibility to put money on the market. What businessman will come to invest in Greece, Prime Minister, when he knows that citizens are in debt? Who will buy their products? Nobody. Deposits are being reduced and private property is being devalued. It has become - and I will say it frankly and directly - the pillaging of private wealth. Through fiscal policy, ten years have deprived the Greek of everything he had. There are no more deposits. Look at the balances of the banks to understand. If there are no deposits, the banks can't finance. It's self-evident, the simplest thing of all. The Greeks must have money to deposit with the bank and the bank must, on the basis of these guarantees, provide loans to make investments. They don't exist either. The private assets of households have been reduced by EUR 600 billion, ladies and gentlemen. Red debt increased by 250 billion. The stock market lost 100 billion euros, which means the crisis cost you know how much? Not 200, not 300, but 1 trillion euros cost the Greek crisis, the Greek crisis. I won't look at the cause, because I repeat that the causes are too much. I will say a few things that I think are a little difficult to implement. Do you realise, Prime Minister and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that we must pay the various lenders EUR 18.4 billion in 2020? Listen to the number, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 18.4 billion for interest must be paid in 2020. It's SYRIZA's creative accounting. He transferred all debts after 2020. So: Central government interest, EUR 6.1 billion due, EUR 12.33 billion due. They're not coming out! Honestly, and sadly I say it, it doesn't come out! And you'll tell me, do you have any proposals? I will tell you a few suggestions because the Greek Solution, unfortunately or fortunately, is the only party that has a programme submitted, posted on the Internet, eighty-sixteen pages. Two hundred eighty pages, not twenty and thirty. Increase the Public Investment Programme by EUR 10 billion this year. If we increase this, then there is hope for growth, I repeat. This will stimulate demand, reduce unemployment and boost the private sector. If the private sector is pushed, you will be able to collect taxes on time, otherwise you cannot collect a single tax. I repeat, I yell, I scream. Some people don't want to hear me. They think it can be and, if you like, the speech today or the budget is afflicted. But it's not like that. The budget is for the next few months for the government to rule. Reduce taxes drastically to become competitive. We cannot be competitive or compete with other countries with such high taxes. Shipping and ship management. Minister, Mr. Stakoura, there is a study of the University of Piraeus. He has done a whole study and research and says that only by ships and shipping can Greece take 18 billion a year. I'm not talking about it. Teachers with a special study testified call them. If you don't know her, let Mr. Villiardus and I present her to your office, Mr. Stakoura, to study her. Tax system. Stop the tax changes. Copy, Prime Minister, the American tax system. It's the easiest of everything. We can copy it. Whatever revenue I have, they go straight into a bucket and there you can tax far more easily. And that's how black money comes out, Minister. You do this: When you have 10,000 euros, I give you a presumption. When you have 15,000 euros, I give you a presumption. The other person for what reason would he cut evidence? What the proof consumes goes through his tax statement. So also VAT will be collected. The simplest of all the Americans did and they did. The Americans have a very strict tax system, there are prime ministers and mobsters in jail. At some point, let's put it in place here at least, son. Is that so hard? The solution, therefore, is the introduction of the system of revenue and expenditure and the taxation of actual income rather than imputed income. Stop the crime of imaginary incomes. It's a crime for the economy. Understood. It's like you close your nose to someone with an asthma problem and they can't breathe. Don't we understand that? In the end, give basis to the primary sector. Prime Minister, tomorrow morning if I was Prime Minister - I am not unfortunately or happily, I do not know, it will appear from the course - I would have made it very simple, I would have had Mr Stakoura see how many Greek companies exist in Bulgaria, which operate and barge 6 billion euros and fifty thousand jobs. I would give them a 10% tax incentive to bring me the 6 billion people here, to be able to collect VAT that is much more than I lose and to be able to bring them back. Find a way. If it's not my way of doing things, find your own way of coming back. Jiros 6 billion, fifty and sixty thousand jobs can come back to Greece. Find ways. It's not that hard. You ruffle the black money with taxes. I make a proposal to you and I do not care if the Left reacts, it does not concern me at all. Give incentives so that the black money can be invested. Give incentives, Mr. Stakoura. There is black money, unfortunately or happily. In our country there is unfortunately black money. They have them in their closets, etc. Germany does that, do you know that? Mr Stavura, the German you are listening to very well - and you are doing well, because my friend Adonish here said that the Germans are our friends, reminded me of old Lada, who said that the Germans are our friends - that is what it does, the black money can be invested by the German. Isn't that right, Mr. Villardo? Why don't you, Mr. Stavoura? Since Germany's teaching us lessons. So take these gentlemen and apply it here, so that the other one with a hundred grand, two hundred, three hundred to invest, not go and eat him 50% of you! Get 5% tax, get them out, invest, get jobs like all the countries do! And France is doing so and has done so on several occasions. With this productive model we have, Prime Minister, that is to say, about 4.1% of GDP of the primary sector and 16.9% of GDP of the secondary sector, the Greek economy cannot survive. And I say it because I feel very bad when I hear economists speaking from a step in the House, and I remember that little thing - Kaiser, if I'm not mistaken, said it - "Get me three, four university professors to break up the state."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u204	Vismark had said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u205	Vismark, I'm sorry, okay, we're not gonna mess it up on this. The point is, however, the teachers... [[Noise in the Chamber]] No, Mrs. Bakoyannis, we don't say what we want unless you're infallible and you don't make mistakes. I guess you never made a mistake. May I remind you of Mrs Bakoyannis' mistake, now that you have caused me, Mrs Bakoyannis? Can I tell you one mistake?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u206	I didn't address you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u207	Mrs Bakoyannis has not addressed you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u208	I apologise then. I have heard'say what it is'. So I say he said something very simple about the teachers. I fear that he is right, even today. The teachers brought us here, the teachers, Mr. Simitis, Mr. Alossoufis, all the teachers who went through the Greek Parliament, Mr. Tsakalotos, Professor, of course, yes. Mr. Varoufakis, are you a professor too? You have a semester and you, 100 billion euros, from what New Democracy says, so you brought us here, as we speak of teachers! I say, anyway, it's enough with the teachers, we jump! Entrepreneurs, put technocrats, not monkeys that we have in Greece, regular bankers or regular technocrats, technocrats who know what economy means, who know what "produce", who know what "create". And I will give some examples. Listen. Tsakalotus came here and complained about cutting off, says New Democracy's allowances. He cut it badly. When he goes out to Minister of Economics and talks about allowances, about benefits policy, he's a failed Minister. Economic policy with benefits cannot be held by the government. There is no aesthetic policy. Politics, you do development, you pay wages, you give jobs, you create production to give jobs. People operate on benefits. They're left-wing benefits. They've learned from the NGOs, of course you know that houi doesn't go easy, it doesn't change. Let's actually go. Primary sector. Agricultural production of 12.1 billion euros has Greece, Prime Minister, mostly the 10 % of farmers. What products do we get from abroad? In order for the farmer, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot function like this, it takes seeds, plantings, agricultural machinery, automation, fertilizers, greenhouses, shading networks. Before 1960 Israel had 0% agricultural production, it produced nothing. A land piece of land was Israel. Now, now, there is no water shortage and territorial structure, desert, stones were, waterfall, saying in our village. Today it has two hundred acre glasshouses, desalination plants, produces shading networks, distribution network, sales network. The Government of Israel shall guarantee minimum prices for each product. It provides for agricultural products and supplies. The same applies to the Netherlands. The Netherlands, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and of the KIC, is a little larger than the Peloponnese. Listen here: What does the Netherlands produce? == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Israel: Six million acres: the acre delivers 1,290 euros. Greece: Thirty-seven million acres: the acre gives 190 euros. Where does the farmer get out with 190 euros, guys? Where to produce goodwill products to standardize them, process them, send them out? How can you compete like this if there is no care and reasonableness? The Netherlands: Exports of agricultural products, EUR 116 billion. And when we say agricultural products, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about tomato and watermelon. We're talking about the goodwill of the product, about going to seeds. We don't have a seed bank here. I told the Minister to see the seed thing. Minister, have you seen the seed thing? We're the country that doesn't have a seed bank and I told you to see it. We've known each other from the past and because I know you're really a technocrat, sit down and look at it! Other friends and other political opponents. So I say find the seed bank! There's no place without a seed bank! Don't you understand that? It can't be done! And I say it with a lot of sympathy because it's your first budget and go to the abyss again. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, Greece has EUR 6 billion exports, when the Netherlands equals the Peloponnese has EUR 116 billion. How to compete? Who should we compete with? How can we compete with them? What should you do with the primary sector? First of all, there must be reafforestation. Minister, Mr. Voridis, I'm talking about you! I say refreshment! We still operate with the 1950s and 1960s system. Secondly, the establishment of a committee on primary agricultural production, livestock farming, the establishment of a seed bank, the weakening of intermediaries, the investment in Greek raw materials needed by the farmer, the strengthening of processing - standardisation, the prohibition of like products from third countries. Mr Kalafatis, because you told my colleague, "Write!", can I tell you something to write about you too? You're gonna be okay. Mr. Secretary of the New Democracy, can I tell you something to write about? Go to the Turkish border and make quality controls on products in tomatoes, vegetables coming from Turkey, about 1.5 billion euros, close the Erdogan door, so to win and 1.5 billion euros, not to import from third countries, such as Turkey which is an enemy of Greece. Never forget that! We're giving them money to agricultural products we shouldn't even give them! Well, that's what you want to hear. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Close the feed from other countries! Bulgaria and Romania are sending us milk of doubtful quality, our farmers are starving and the dairy industries are getting from there the milk, cartel, passing it as Greek and making the Greek feta. Mr. Charakopoulos has also asked two questions in the past, if I'm not mistaken about this matter. You're laughing, Maximus, but that's the way it is. So quality controls in Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey! There to see what's going to happen. They'll cry manoeuvres from Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey if that happens. To close, then, I won't say farms, animal feedingstuffs, pastures. We produce six hundred with seven hundred tons of milk and we consume a thousand percent. Milk! Christ and God bless you! We produce seven hundred and consume a thousand! That's all he calls himself, Mr. Stakoura! Find a way to produce more, not to import! The introduction means a currency outflow that you don't print money, Mr. Stakoura, if you have it in your house, you're borrowing it again. And after you borrow it, you have to give it. So why don't I give it to me here? As regards the import of sheep's milk as ice-cream, a ice-cream party is held every night by Bulgaria. Ice-creams pass. Why? And Mr Varoufakis talks about numbers, about the surplus, 2.5%, 2.7%, 2.8%. The self-evident, Mr. Varoufakis, we do not do as a country, the simplest! I will not say any more, but I will say this: you know, ladies and gentlemen, I have the list from the European Union before me and I am tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the list mentioned above, which is located in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Producer prices collapse in Greece. Cheap country in the European Union on wheat, barley, pumpkins and lemons, kiwi, nectarines is Greece. We sell cheaper than all other countries all our products. And we sell it with the tone! There's no standardization, Mrs. Bakoyannis. We can't get a nice box, send it to Germany, get my friend Franz, who lives in Düsseldorf and tell me "thank you very much". I would like to tell you, therefore, why I sincerely have a list of what we are introducing from Turkey in front of me. Here's what we import from Turkey: Orchards, fruit and vegetables, fish, shells, seafood, chicken eggs, nuts, coffee, cocoa, tea, candles, soaps, textiles, tobacco, graphics, a pile of as well as weapons. We also import weapons, gentlemen, Mr Stakoura, from Turkey! I put it in the Minutes, so you can see it, if you want. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the list mentioned above, which is located in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To close, I want to say something very simple, because I don't want to spend time. Friends don't exist, I've said it a thousand times. So I take the opportunity to answer two - three simple things. Borisov came out and he cleared us. Nobody heard it, not even the Prime Minister. He said what they said said was well said. Borisov told us we were on our own. Listen a little: Germany is emptied of us. However, Germany's very fascist behavior makes the ‘NORD STREAM 2’ that Greece does not want to be at ‘BALKAN STREAM’. So, do you see that friendships don't exist? If you want to answer Mr. Bulgarian Borisov, you have to tell him "our planes, dude, protect your airspace, our F-16 protect the air space of Bulgaria and Skopje". Not a single answer! It came out and it tells me "Greece is alone, we don't care what Greece does". Who? The one we have put into the European Union, the one whom we have helped to develop his economy and Greek businesses work there, who we protect his airspace and act as our enemy! I won't say the rest for the UN, Pontius Pilates are all. And when I say "Polands", Pontius Pilates really. And I will say this directly: if the government really wants to leave behind its work, it has to do a very simple thing - and I mean it - to make a board of political leaders, behind closed doors, with a commitment that nothing will be said outside, so that we can decide what the red line is. I am not reassured, I am not calm, as I see Turkey escalating the tension and as I see Erdogan being predicted to ask for more and more. Don't think and go to The Hague unprepared, don't think and play games with the collapsing! Because I hear New Democracy parrots talking about collapsing. I will say this once again: no one has the right here to share property that does not belong to him. It's not your property of the Greeks. It's the Greeks and you don't have the right to talk about co-existence. Give your house, but not Greeks' fortune! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High Tripoli (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u210	We, ladies and gentlemen, do not think that the budget that has been submitted is undevelopmental. This criticism by SYRIZA and other parties suits you very much. On the contrary, we will prove that the budget serves capitalist development and that is why it is also deeply anti-grassy. Development is already here, but it is not translated into a similar improvement for workers' lives. Your budget is a tutorial, because it comes to prove very hard, but it is pertinent that what we have been shouting over the past period, namely that capitalist growth, whether we call it a fair or a development for everyone, is a development of capital gains and requires the maintenance, continuation and escalation of the anti-grass attack. Whatever side you may consider in the structure of government revenue and expenditure, who pays and who receives, up to the various structural measures taken to attract investment and which are reflected in the budget, namely, all that you have decided with SYRIZA, when you voted together in the third memorandum or in an even more revealing way your own official forecasts of wage trends, the conclusion is the same: you are relatively successful in bringing growth for large capital, which, of course, only requires constant sacrifices for workers and an overall increase in the level of exploitation. Because, of course, some still have the nerve and claim that we speak wooden when we talk, for example, about increasing the degree of exploitation, we answer them that it is enough to see the development of wages itself. The budget you bring forecasts a growth rate of 2.8% for 2020. Of course, how easy it is to achieve this is an issue, because there is no one who agrees to it with you, but leave that for the continuation. Let's make the devil's lawyer and assume your budget comes out. What does it provide for wages at the same time that the pie is increasing by 2.8%? It actually provides for a further decline in the wage share in the GDP pie, as it only reaches 1.2% in average wages. Finally, the question is: This increase in the pie is going? Her benefits - we say, and so are - only great capital is fruited, and that is the simple class substance of your development. Here we cannot comment on the provocative reference made by the SYRIZA spokesman. Do you really wonder what the cause of reducing the share of national wealth going to work is? The 2019 budget with your signature - which was also a memorandum and implemented, as you said last year, your own policy, neoliberal was supposed to - predicted an increase in GDP of 2.5% and at the same time an increase in average salary of 1.4% and an increase in private consumption of 1.1%. We don't need to mention more numbers. The world knows that the SYRIZA government was the one that, for the first time, brought the real average wage well down and made the worker in Greece by the poorest workers in the world. The bitter truth is that the dual New Democracy and SYRIZA implements the capital attack on workers. All the previous governments have smashed wages and today is now coming to keep their wages as low as their capital and productivity is needed, of course, to steal whatever income has been left to the Greek people in various ways, because while you generally promise an increase in wages, at the same time you anticipate more taxes for workers than for 2019. In simple terms, all wage increases will be depleted as a result of increased taxes. You don't do these other things at random, as SYRIZA accuses you of, that is, it's not that you don't have a development plan. The new national energy and climate plan you presented is cut and sewn to support the new profitable investments of the groups at the expense of the people with the cloak of supposedly environmental protection. What's the truth? The new Green Agreement, which is being promoted by the European Commission, which specialises the Greek Government in the above-mentioned design, has as main objectives the following: to provide a profitable investment outlet to various ponds that are overcompensated by the European Commission to deal with the energy superiority of the United States of America and Russia in the field of hydrocarbons and also to promote green technology goods in which the European Union has a comparative advantage. Its objectives underline who loses and who wins from its implementation. For example, only one benefit from the degreasement plan for the domestic electricity system by 2028 will be few monopolistic groups, which have already invested and prepared new investments in the gas and renewable electricity generation sector, as well as groups that will invest in western Macedonia after the dismantling of the heavy lignite plant industry. Large profits will be generated by the groups that will exploit the network of Greek electricity distribution network operator as a basis for the future development of the fifth generation mobile phone network. The latest developments in PPC are precisely the result of this planning. Thousands of redundancies, wage cuts for workers in the sector, expensive current for the people and waste instead of energy savings, will be the bitter fruits of the implementation of the European Union Green Agreement in our country. Developments in LARCO are the same shade. The government's solution to Larco actually promotes the break-up of the company's fillets that can make the largest profit without taking into account redundancies, unemployment of the workforce or the closure of its operation and its impact on production. It is clear that the interests of the capital of the European Union and of the ruling class are not in line with a modernised LARCO, with essential measures for the health of workers, which will be used to meet the needs of the people. Of course, the huge profits will come from somewhere. For workers, your design provides for the evacuation of unemployment, at least in these sectors, an increase in the country's energy dependence, a heavy burden on domestic consumption tariffs. More generally, your policy hits first and foremost private and public employees. However, it also hits small businesses, and especially companies which employ a large number of workers in proportion to their profits, because you do not even raise wages in papers, and immediately after you return it back to large capital in the form of tax exemptions for direct subsidies. So you are wronged by those in here blame you for lack of a plan. You are perfectly consistent with your plans. The breakdown of revenue and expenditure in the budget also pictures the class substance of your policy wonderfully. Once again this year's budget is making the situation worse against the people's population, it shows that the budget is another instrument, a redistribution mechanism for the benefit of big capital. A few days ago you told us that you were reducing the tax burden on workers with your tax bill. The facts are different, however, and the budgetary figures themselves are unequivocally contradicting you. The tax attack on the people is intensified. Total taxes are increasing by EUR 800 million and reaching EUR 52.2 billion. The indirect taxes, which are literally “exploiting” the workers, are increasing by 700 million euros and reaching 28.6 billion, while the income tax paid by the employees is also increasing by EUR 300 million and reaching 11.4 billion from the 11.1 billion in 2019. Really, Lords of Government, how much longer can you believe that you can make fun of workers? As much as you try to show that your policy is differentiated from your predecessor, the truth is completely in reverse. And at the budgetary level you are implementing the same policy: a new tax raid. The 2020 budget does not just rebut the enormous tax burden on the people, which SYRIZA and previous governments loaded on their backs, but brings new additional burdens. Of course, this budget does not just have losers. Tax policy at the level of taxation appears to be one where one can see that the only tax package to be reduced is company taxation. As much as SYRIZA blames you for not following his policy, the truth is somewhat different. You continue on the same road, which all urban governments have been following over time and you give billions of euros to the large capital. The SYRIZA tax burden on businesses was EUR 4.5 billion and once a financial space was found, you have immediately reduced the charges to EUR 4 billion through the drastic reduction in rates, as you refer to the budget report itself. And we cannot comment on the objection of Officer Opposition to the new tax provisions on large capital. SYRIZA told you that he wanted to help business from depreciation and that there's a difference, because first you make the investment and then you win, so he showed clearly that there is good capital that also makes investments. This wording reminded us of the - laughter and weeping - among you, as you will remember, before about overdepreciation, of who will propose greater. I mean, 150% SYRIZA and 200% New Democracy or backwards. Anyway, where to remember this ridiculous controversy. Do not worry, the ruling class, the one that has all the great property and the real power, knows very well that you both are equally useful, that you are ultimately implementing its policy, that you have no real difference in this respect, and that is what is of interest to it. There is therefore no reason for overreacting. Does it really make any difference exactly how the taxes on large capital will be reduced? So if the tax exemptions come with overdepreciation of the SYRIZA proposal and the majestics can pay no tax on every euro they invest, what does that change? Who's gonna pay the state revenues? Who will the burdens fall to then? Will the people stop kneeling? New Republic and SYRIZA are always cutting and sewing at the expense of workers. The policy of taxation and tax exemptions for industrialists, shipowners, banks, and the policy that their shares and profits are not taxed at all reflects the same red thread that unites them: safeguarding the interests of the few, large economic interests. That is why they are insisting together on the need for a complete computer record of all workers' costs. What, in simple words, do you of the New Democracy? You are clinging to the policy of coercion on electronic markets, founded by SYRIZA, by establishing a threshold for electronic purchases in the unthinkable 30% of income. Why are you doing this? It is obvious who benefits from this common policy of the New Democracy and SYRIZA for electronic markets. The banks, through which all e-commerce passes, benefit the large companies, where e-commerce is directed, which admittedly do not escape, since they legally pay minimum taxes to no tax, and have very preferential conditions with the banks. At the same time, this policy favours the individual government. By showing only one part of the economy, there is an artificial increase in GDP, so that everyone is happy. But who is losing your policy after all? That, too, is obvious. This policy literally breaks down the self-employed, the professionals, the traders, who are forced to show their low incomes in this city, the banks, which they owe and to be taxed on them, but it also breaks the workers both through the fine for not achieving the threshold and by the drastic increase in the cost of services due to their taxation. If one adds VAT and income tax to self-employed workers, over 50% and a large part of it will be charged to people's consumption. That is your policy in the ENPIA. You're telling us you've reduced rates. The tax is, however, increased compared to 2019. The new government's approach is reflected in the reference to a fair reallocation of HNVIA through the calculation of the actual objective value of very expensive properties located in tourist coastal areas. In simple terms, however, your aim is to tax any property that has a commercial value, to squeeze people's families through the taxation of their coastal property, to make use of it in the tourism sector. In other words, stop using it for rest, for recreation and either dive it or turn it into a tourist accommodation. The achievement of the goal of the tens of millions of new tourists in Greece every year requires certain sacrifices and in this case the implementation of the 'McKINSEY' - BSE report for the 2020 economy, which provoked the need to reduce domestic tourism and to convert it into imported ones. That is why you are following the same policy as SYRIZA, who was trying to present it with another sign, as a tax on wealth. After all, the same criticism is also made of the reductions you make in HNVY, that the class character of your policy is seen by the fact that you are making cuts in the high tiles of HNVY. Without a doubt, your social audience expects some such reductions in HNVY, but this position covers something much more substantial, that big businesses pay and continue to pay minimally to nothing. Either in New Democracy or in SYRIZA a hotel of objective value hundreds of millions of euros does not pay HISBIA. They also cover that in Greece, as in every capitalist country, the real wealth lies elsewhere. The real wealth, the accumulated sweat of the workers is in the capital that accumulates large companies, is in the shares held by the large shareholders of logistics, banking, industrial, construction groups. Any debate that does not highlight this simple truth is, in the final analysis, a cover-up. No one taxes this wealth, neither you nor SYRIZA before. The latest tax law you brought allows for the transfer of tax-free participations, while SYRIZA was the one that brought the preferential treatment of the transfer of shares in the stock market. The debate on the taxation of his occupation is just a joke. One could, of course, oppose another argument that taxation is increasing, but that government expenditure is being adjusted accordingly. And there, however, your budget continues on the same lines as previous budgets in recent years. Behind all rationalisation and expenditure reduction there is also a new attack on workers' rights. The reduction of costs for the state cars of EUR 3 million is a drop in the ocean in the face of the EUR 110 million that you are planning to save through increasing the revenue from the municipalities, i.e. through the greater amortisation of workers from the municipalities. But the most flagrant, perhaps, measure of rationalisation of expenditure is in pensions, and that is where it turns out that, despite what you have said, your policy continues in the same direction as all the previous ones. With three numbers, it turns out what you're doing: The state saves EUR 475 million pension costs, insurance contributions increase by EUR 600 million and benefits decrease by EUR 236 million. In simple terms, workers pay more and get less, while the state budget is slightly lighter, and you have the courage to advertise it as an improvement, as a surplus budget for the funds. This is, of course, the result of the compensation system and the Katrugalou law. So it's funny to show up now on the bars, gentlemen of the Officer's Response. You brought the fund return function, the proportionate studies, the individual share for the insured, and you did not accidentally do so. This policy needs the big capital, the reduction of so-called non-wage costs, pension control, and the reduction of burdens. The budget you bring, ladies and gentlemen of the government, whatever you look at him, is of the same character, we will not get tired of it. These are measures which ensure only the profitability of large capital. It is characteristic that one of the least possible increases in the budget is the increase in direct financing of construction capital, through the Public Investment Programme, and even the increase is about EUR 600 million. In simple terms, dive from the 500m euro pensions, dive from the municipalities another 100m euros and bax them into the big capital. This simple arithmetic is the essence of your budget, the redistribution of large capital and the promotion of all the measures required for its profitability. Your insistence on privatization is also characteristic. Beyond the well-known and emblematic example of the Greek, you have set within the budget policy objective for 2020 - note - the obligation of the state mechanism to accept 60% of the proposals for the use of public property. In simple terms, following the criminalisation you have brought to the public services, when they refuse to ratify the substantiated and incomplete environmental protection studies, you are now moving further. You tell us that the state is intended to respond positively to the majority of the demands made by the large capital to promote privatization. It is therefore easy to see that the benefit of capitalist growth is not the Greek people, the employees, the self-employed, the pensioners. It is easy to understand how you do what you can to shape those conditions that facilitate this course. But that doesn't mean you'll be successful. You have served in a communication war to prove to both the bourgeoisie and a large part of your political audience, basically people, who are in vain in anticipation of some gains from this development, that your government is more appropriate than the previous one to manage the bourgeois power at this stage of even unstable development. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You are almost celebrating the budget for accelerating the pace of governance from New Democracy, and you have even made a provision for an almost spectacular growth rate of 3% in 2020. But even such a growth rate, uh, he's not so peculiar. The historical experience of capitalism shows that after a phase of intense, deep crisis, a development phase is also coming. And how can he not come with all these sweeping structural measures, with such low wages? However, even such a growth rate is literally pale in the face of the decline of GDP by 25% throughout the period of the crisis. Have you ever thought about how many years it takes to return GDP to the pre-crisis levels? But things are much more serious than that. We are telling you that your predictions are excessive and that is why they are not adopted by anyone. The growth rate of GDP at the end of 2019 is already estimated to move at lower levels, even than in April. The dynamics of the domestic economy are not such, but the real misunderstanding lies elsewhere. It is in the ever-increasing chance of a crisis in the international economy and, above all, the impact it will have on the domestic economy and the achievement of the 2020 targets. And what is the solution you found in front of the continuing stagnation of the international economy? You are trying to solve these risks with the impurity claim that the domestic economy has internal dynamic and possible time lags behind the international economy and that, because of this, the international economy will have an estimatedly limited impact on domestic developments. It is enough to see your own budget carefully to find the truth. You yourself say that the expected growth will come mainly from a large increase in investment, which in turn have external origin. Hand - hand with SYRIZA, however, you have managed to further strengthen gravity in the domestic economy of exporting services, such as tourism, international transport, namely those sectors that are most sensitive and vulnerable to the fluctuations in the international economy. And, of course, the argument for delay. But have you not thought that even when you claim that the Greek economy has a backwardness, when you say it, all you say is that 2019’s stagnation has not yet affected the domestic economy and that its impact - obviously - is expected in the next period? In other words, whatever side you look at, reality is different from the government account. The objective of a continuous, growth-free approach is quite precarious because of the problems of capital reproduction on a global scale. Considering the deterioration of Turkish aggression, its management by the Greek side and its effects on the economy, one can easily understand. And it is true that Turkey's aggression took another dangerous step in front of the memorandum signed by Turkey with the so-called Libyan government for demarcation of EEZ, deleting from the map of Greek islands. Except that Turkish aggression cannot be dealt with by Greece's bonding to alliances like NATO. For years now you have been comforting the Greek people, all of you. All that this tie does is strengthen Turkish provocation, lead the step to unacceptable retreats to sovereign rights, increase war equipment for the needs of the US and NATO, fill the country with bases, and now also with nuclear heads again, which seem to be being carried from the base of Inchurlich to Araxos or Souda. Unfortunately neither support for NATO's decisions, namely war plans against Russia, which even speak of a nuclear blow, nor of the four billion who pay annually for NATO expenditure, have so far prevented the attempt of the Turkish ruling class to create a fait accompli, to make claims against sovereign rights. Instead, these imperialist alliances give air to the sails of this aggression. Is it really not NATO that does not even recognize a border between its member countries? Isn't that what the Aegean sees as a single operational space? The United States and Mr. Tsipras' devilish good Trump isn't trying to break up with Turkey so he won't give it up, he says, to Russia? And while we have been raised for so many years with the supposed alliances, the alliances of the Greek bourgeoisie, which allegedly provide protection and security to our people and country, they are now throwing the question of the co-management of the Aegean. Except that the idea put forward as a propaganda argument for the need for a painful compromise with Turkey, for the Aegean and the lands of Cyprus to avoid the war, is also false and equally dangerous for the present and for the future for the country's sovereign rights, for peace in the region. Here, in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean, a region rich in hydrocarbons, mainly natural gas, compete with powerful states such as the United States, France, Russia, Britain, Italy, Germany, China, about who will put the wealth of this region in hand. There is also competition in this territory. And these competitions lead to warfare, as has been tragically demonstrated in the past, with various interventions in the Middle East, North Africa, etc. Our people must reject all the extortionist dilemmas, not accept any retreat to sovereign rights and think that if in Greece and Turkey, in other countries, the peoples were to make real choices, although in these countries in the Balkans, in the Middle East, in North Africa, the workers of each country had power, it would be sure that they would find a way to resolve their differences. So that's where we have to go like a people. There our struggle must be directed both within Greece and every other country in the region. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the climate of reassurance which government propaganda is trying to shape through the account of normality, growth, is ultimately misleading as a whole in its individual parts. And this is a real catalyst for the workers. Because retreat of development goals will not simply affect the status of your government. It is not just threatening the coherence of your development account. These budgetary commitments and the need for financial space to fuel the profitability of the groups mean simply Greek that a failure of the financial forecasts for growth directly leads to new financial measures for the workers, even those minimum relief measures that have been launched. Your budget, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is a continuation of all the previous ones. It shows that this development for monopolies is based on the impoverishment of the populace, on cheap labour force, on a tax raid for the people, on a reduction in public spending on education, health, etc., on the acceleration of privatization, on the promotion of all the measures required by the large capital. It turns out that the memorial austerity gives the dogma to memorial wisdom, that the measures are not just abrogated for your infamous development but also escalate. We will not get tired of repeating. Your claims for the benefits of growth and the claims of the previous government for the benefits of its own development are more stories of wildlife. You were all telling us that all kinds of memoirs and memoirs, the multiformal attack on rights, the measures to slaughter the people are certainly unpleasant but necessary for growth to finally come. You were asking us to be patient to get through the cavo of crisis and get to the calm waters of development, where we will all enjoy the fruits of our labors. Development, then, came, but it's not philosophical and could not be with you at the wheel. Urban policy leads to the worsening of the people's lives to ensure, again, only the profitability of capital. The continuity of urban policy, which runs on the same axis, either with the New Democracy or with SYRIZA, proves the truth. Capitalist development does not go hand in hand with better working life. That is why the need to organise the counter-attack is important today. That's why you're stepping up the state suppression, the slander of workers, of their movement. You are also seeking to create conditions of social automation for further hitting popular rights and trade union freedoms. The government's daily threats are not addressed alone to the workers of one or other sector, whether on the subway, in PPC, in hospitals or in universities. It's addressed to everyone. They help prepare ground for new measures against the strike, reduce the protests, mobilisations, as the government plans. And he'll bring more laws than he says next time. It's not enough for her, you see, the whole antique arsenal that exists. He wants more repressive armour. In fact, in recent years, more and more methods and practices have been used which not only escape from these frameworks of your own laws, but also degrade human dignity. You have learned nothing from Greek history, from the past. You have learned nothing from world history. State violence, repression, arbitraryness always has short feet. It's not going far. It's just anger. There's a great river in which this anger of the people finally rises and it scans everything in its path. Today it is a one-way road to organise the struggle against the real rivals within the country, which are the monopolistic groups and their profit, which is the corrupt state, the outdated political staff, anti-population and repression, is the same rotten system, and that is why we must organise, we insist, the popular counter-attack. All the JRC Members who have spoken these days have also expressed their views on the JRC's positions by Ministry. They have highlighted the problems created by this budget in critical areas such as education, people's health, culture, sport, the financing of OTAs, the enormous shortcomings that continue to exist and increase in the areas of civil protection, such as flooding, earthquakes, forest fireworks and so many others. They also highlighted the negative effects of this budget on employees, on contract workers, on unemployed people, on farmers, on self-employed professionals, crafters, traders, scientists, on students, on the whole of the people's families. For all these reasons, we are voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Ethnikios Evia, and they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-three students and students and two educational sessions from the Loutrasios Evia High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] On the occasion of the fact that the UN is today declared International Day of Immigrants, it is also the International Day of Refugee - in June, of course - I wanted to tell you that the Greek Parliament, continuing with a tradition and older years, responded to the Ministry of Education's request to cover heating and cleaning costs for the school year 2019-2020 of the Refugee and Education Structures in Athens and the educational regions. Today the relevant decision, which continues with Parliament's practice in recent years, has been signed. Mrs Fotini Gennamata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish it were enough today to discuss only the economy. Two crucial issues, however, concern and worry about the Greek people at this time, beyond the economy. Turkey's challenges and aggression, which have exceeded every limit, but also the aggression of the refugee. I would like to stress, Mr President, that at this time when the refugees and immigrants in the islands are talking are more than 40 000. These are issues, however, both related to each other and, above all, affect and influence the economy. A few days ago, this Step I presented our specific proposals, the steps to deal with them. I asked, Mr. Mitsotakis, to take a seat. You refused to tell us what the red line of your government is. And you refused to convene the Political Heads of State or Government. You got all the responsibility on you. It is clear that you do not have an integrated strategy on the subject. But what is very important today is that there should be a national line at the place. How is the country going on in the new data? We do not have the luxury of losing another chance, as happened in 2004 with the Karamanlis government. You have told us that foreign policy is not being discussed, but is being exercised. Yes, he is. But this presupposes a national strategy which should be formally shaped by all the political forces of the country. I referred to four priorities, which, in our view, constitute an integrated, coherent and thus an effective strategy. The practical support and solidarity of Europe and international organisations, the strengthening of our cooperation in the wider region, the strengthening of our deterrent force and the pursuit of demarcation of maritime zones with neighbouring countries. To make it clear to Turkey, Prime Minister, that the only way to resolve the dispute is to recognise the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, to start talks on the drafting of the conciliator, so as to lead us to judge the dispute within the framework of International Law. In these proposals, listening to everyone, I believe there can be a wider consensus, since there is, of course, a decision on the national red line. It must be clear what we are talking about. The cycle of concessions should be closed. Greece is not the weak link. We should finally send a clear message of determination to Erdogan, to the partners and to the allies that if Turkey dares to violate our sovereign rights, we will respond forcefully. Only in this way, Prime Minister, will we be taken seriously by everyone and maximise the results of diplomacy, which alone is not enough. I think you underestimated the problem at first. You spoke of difficulties, you lowered developments. Don't be late, Mr. Mitsotakis. Not to reassurance. There is a need for vigilance, along with temperality, of course, but also determination. Ladies and gentlemen, our country's strong position on national issues is inextricably linked to the stable and developed economy. Perhaps, as long as it is ever necessary today to leave our dependencies behind, to create the development shock that the country needs, to finally stand on our feet and to regain a dynamic, extroversion and a strong economy. That is why today's debate is of particular importance, and just under that perspective we assess the budget of your Government. So the government has changed, but politics has not changed or the economy. This budget, Mr Mitsotakis, could well be signed by Mr Tsakalotos. On the same rails, he moves. The surpluses are always here, the Tsipras commitments remain strong and the citizens remain in the same spectators work. The 2020 budget lands Mr Mitsotakis and his Government from their virtual regularity, in the harsh reality that citizens live. Firstly, the injustices are not being addressed with your policy, unemployment is not falling, the new jobs created are mainly part-time jobs with very low wages, people are in danger of losing their homes with the auctions that come, citizens are unable to cope with and fulfil their obligations, taxes are destroying households and depleting their income. Any reductions are for very few. Secondly, the deadlock in growth remains. Small and medium-sized enterprises are being tested, banks cannot yet finance them, the market is growing. The Public Investment Programme is stagnant, against all the directions currently existing and the trend that develops in the European Union. High primary surpluses - we have said so many times - are kneeling households and the economy. Tax changes that are not linked to new investments and job creation. NRP funds unexploited. And, thirdly, the social state is falling apart. Temporary and prepaid allowances in ten times as many citizens are not social policy. Just this year, the blue Santa replaced pink! That's it. Health and education are constantly deteriorating. In health, especially, the situation is marginal, in hospitals, thousands of our fellow citizens are suffering every day. I would like to tell you, Prime Minister, that hospitals are currently falling down on ceilings, they are falling on elevators and everything that breaks is not corrected. The funding from the regular budget to hospitals is reduced for another year and so is the funding for primary health care. I want to tell you that there is a hospital - listen to this, because it's not a joke, it's a reality, and then if you want me to give you the details - which put a hand in the icecream from the chapel. It was found in a controversy with the metropolitan in the area, who, when he understood the size of the problem, did back, he did not understand, to help the hospital in the area. So from unannounced waste in the area of the health of the Karamanlis governments, we have now gone to the other end, in third world situations. It doesn't work anymore. And it cannot appear one day as a solution to the collapse that I describe the tradition of the national health system in private interests. You'll find us dynamically across the street. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] This situation is being experienced by the citizens, who, in fact, want to emphasise, because it is too timely, seek security in their everyday lives, in their lives. But the police arbitrariness that is growing every day is not a sign of power, it is a sign of weakness. It is a confession of failure of your Government to guarantee the security of citizens within the framework of democratic legitimacy. This is real life. This is the daily lives of the citizens. With your budget you are simply further strengthening social injustice, you are even worsening the relationship between direct and indirect taxes that hits just the weakest. From your policy, there is a clear lack of action for the workers and in particular for the private sector workers, who were the first to be hit by the crisis and the latter to the relief, there is no measure for pensioners and the welfare state, for small and medium-sized incomes. Even from the HERAKLIS project to strengthen banks and deal with red loans, there is a lack of any measure to protect the first residence of small and medium-sized borrowers. So they're at risk from auctions. Now, after a celebration, Mr Mitsotakis remembered the need to reduce surpluses, of course, since 2021. Prime Minister, we are not going to say'slower than ever' and you know why? Because with an additional EUR 7 billion, the Greek people are paying for 2020 your refusal to be sad at Mrs Merkel, that is to say, your accession to the 'duty club'. We've lived this in the past few years. For all these reasons, therefore, we are saying a strong 'no' to your budget. I would like to focus on a few more very specific conclusions and conclusions in relation to the budget. Conclusion one. The growth estimates are overestimated, many words about growth and investment, but in practice everything goes ahead. They would start works in Greek in 2019, but now the bulldozers will enter 2020 and see. Over-optimistic the government's estimates, unlike the forecasts of all international organizations, as well as of the Bank of Greece. The budget does not incorporate forecasts for international developments, for the consequences of Mr Trump's trade wars, it does not incorporate Brexit, which will probably exacerbate the trade deficit, the negative effects of climate change and the increased flows of refugee and migratory waves. But what is the reality, ladies and gentlemen? What ultimately prevents development in this place? We have already talked about high primary surpluses. I would add that, in order to achieve this in 2019, the Public Investment Programme had to be reduced by EUR 811 million, when, as I described, public infrastructure collapsed. We are against that logic. You continue what has happened in previous years. Prime Minister, the policy mix, as you have told us in the past, must finally change. What is needed is low primary surpluses, high public investment programme and to regain control over the subordinated fund so that we can finally move forward. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] It is no accident at all that we have not seen any structural change that is boosting growth and giving investors a positive signal. On the contrary, you return to the logic of the client state of virtue. You create organisations and structures that cost unnecessarily. You are not interested in the coherence of the Greek society. Conclusion two. The government has no plan, no development strategy. "I invest in Greece" you named your law. But I wonder, who is investing in Greece without actually incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises, regional development and the primary sector? How will you achieve these optimistic forecasts with only 25% absorption in the NRP and 17.85% - even worse - in the ‘Entrepreneurship - Competitiveness - Innovation’ programme? The horizontal tax reductions to enterprises are neither linked to growth nor mainly to investment. The same incentives for anyone who is developing and risking, but also for those who are content with his enhanced profits, while other things also impose climate change and the fourth industrial revolution, impose targeted interventions. The government has all its hopes in the building. The major problem of the Greek economy is, however, low competitiveness. At the same time, you let banks speculate with excessive charges to the detriment of the citizens who trade with them. Nothing happened at all since the meeting you had with them. We are going to go back to this, we are not going to leave it that way. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And at the same time they also cause massive redundancies. It's not a solution to redundancies, Mr. Mitsotakis. When will you finally understand that? Conclusion third. Small and medium-sized incomes will reload all burdens. The New Democracy vows to support the middle-class have been violated since the first semester. Citizens will be charged with an additional EUR 638 million VAT and 88 million excise duty. They will pay an additional EUR 323 million in income taxes and EUR 84 million in real estate tax by redefining the objective values. Reliefs to the natural persons you are announcing are minimal and are very little for those who have an income of over 12,000 euros, and zero for those who have more than 20,000 euros. The rich man in New Democracy with an annual income of 9,000 euros and a child will benefit 2.5 euros a month. It will, of course, continue to waste this increased available income on large-scale public consumption with increased taxes, such as VAT. The very rich with an income of 20,000 euros and a child will benefit zero and will continue to pay a contribution of solidarity and increased excise duties. With economic policy in the same tracks, with these budgets and these perceptions, all that happens is that the deadlocks for the country and the Greek people are being prolonged. You seem to have learned nothing since the last decade. Return firmly to the logic of the past. The centralised, conservative and authoritarian state you are trying to rebuild is this supposedly normality that led the country to derail the economy and the lip of destruction. Ladies and gentlemen, we are engaged in a dynamic and programmed opposition. We are not only staying in denial and rejection of the New Democracy policy. We have a plan and a proposal for regeneration with a green contract, because that is what the country needs. The "Greek Plan" is a project based mainly on state change, decentralisation, creativity, extroversion, research, knowledge, innovation and, of course, the exploitation of human resources. A state of digital, reliable, timely paving the way for the changes brought about by the fourth industrial revolution, so that Greek businesses are ready, competitive and capable of creating new jobs. A state determined, with a plan to ensure a fair transition to the new era of climate change, which does not leave entire regions and their people in poverty and unemployment, which is not only interested in ensuring the profits of the few. A modern social state that sees the dangers of demographic ageing and supports in practice, in the long term, families with an integrated framework rather than communications fireworks, a state that inspires confidence in young people and ensures that they can progress in their own country. We believe that the country needs this progressive change and that is not just a vision that inspires us. It is a concrete project, with new national objectives. To achieve them, there is an urgent need to strike inequality and injustice, to give the Greek people its lost pride. That's enough with the big words! No more mocking and exploiting hope! No more temporary allowances! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] The benefits of any improvement in the economy must be permanent and clear. We are therefore bringing in, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal for a law, and I urge you to put yourself on the table. We, therefore, call the Change Movement the third pension for all pensioners, normal thirteenth pension, not like previous bonuses. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Let us now legislate on the thirteenth pension. Pensioners were hit hard by the crisis. We owe them that. You've ignored them so far, Mr. Mitsotakis. Will you continue with the benefits of poverty, or will you support the dignity that we propose? With all our proposals, we aim to: Firstly, in balancing indirect and direct taxes through the immediate reduction of all rates of value added tax, a measure directly linked to the relief of the people's layers, through the reduction of food costs and support for production and households, through the reduction of energy costs. Secondly, the real support for small and medium-sized incomes by abolishing in two instalments the solidarity levy. Thirdly, support for small and medium-sized enterprises by abolishing the trade fee. Fourthly, to provide incentives to create new jobs. Fifthly, in fiscal incentives for new investments, for technological modernisation of businesses and for tackling climate change, with the introduction of high tax rates of amortisation for investments in these sectors. Sixth, to stimulate the primary production of the Greek farmer, with tax measures that enhance his income and support producer groups and agricultural cooperatives. Seventhly, in incentives to young people to attempt, act in business, stay and create in our country, but also to return to those who have left, with full exemption from taxation and social security contributions for three years and reduced by 50% for the next two for young people starting their own business. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Eighth, the effective protection of first homes from auctions for small and medium-sized borrowers, who have proved to be unable to repay their obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, these are our proposals, direct financial interventions for development, social justice and the treatment of inequalities, proposals to be financed - why would anyone reasonably ask 'Where will all this be financed'? - the increase in GDP and the decline in unemployment, which means that public revenues are increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u213	Excuse me, Madam President. Please, just quiet down. You talk a lot, very slowly everyone. It's better for a few of them to speak loudly. It's less annoying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u214	And, of course, from the creation of an additional financial area from the reduction of primary surpluses. The government has refused all these proposals. We insist. We're here, dynamically present. We are the support and disguise of the Greek society, which each day more responds to this relationship, a relationship which is becoming increasingly strong and is reflected where elections are held, in scientists, workers and workplaces. We continue firmly in the face of populism and preservation, stable in our autonomous course, because we believe that only a strong democratic progressive party, our prolongation, can achieve the new change that this place needs. Thank you very much. Merry Christmas and good holidays to everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u215	Mr Alexis Tsipras, President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, is being called on in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think you will agree with me that the budget is not a cold list. It's the very life of millions who hide behind these numbers. It is, at the same time, the photo, the mirroring of the logic of politics, even the morality of a government. And if that is how we see today's draft budget, I think we can hardly conclude that nothing good does not predict, budget or mirror for the majority, for many, for health, education, the social state, the long-term order. For the few and chosen, however, I would say the opposite. It budgets from alleviations, tax and other, until grants and gifts, often photographically. If you were to ask me to introduce a few words into the budget, I would say that it is a budget of class monopolies and political fraud, a crown of a series of frauds that characterise the New Democracy of Mitsotakis by election and post-election. These are frauds which, however beautiful they are, are covered by a system of media friendlys, as long as the weather is becoming more and more obvious to the public, even to the citizens who have voted for New Democracy five months ago and I shall mention some of them. Fraud your propaganda on fourth memorial. That is what you said in last year's debate here in the budget, when our government was finally pulling the country out of the motto. It is also a fraud that your battle for debt, when our government not only regulated it, at last, for the benefit of the country after negotiations hard, but also opened a clear corridor, after many years, for the development prospects of the Greek economy. Fraud your constant attacks on us, three years, on the surpluses, which you promised to reduce directly from 2020, because you would allegedly be credible to the partners. And this fraud is even worse because you did not use what we announced, namely reducing surpluses from 2020, creating the deposit account, the special account, which will ensure lenders. Fraud your promises of growth 4% as soon as you were elected, the next year, because you said you were friendly to entrepreneurship, while we pushed it away, and you would block the bureaucratic obstacles, unlike us. Now you are budgeting 2.8%, while the International Monetary Fund, the forecasts of which you have especially appreciated throughout the past period, is putting the forecast below 2% and the European Commission at 2.3%. Fraud, too, top of your so-called philanthropy for the ENPIA. What did you do on the substance? You have made our own legislative decision, legislated, to bring it into line with your own class monopolies and to give 200 million more to reduce it for the big bags. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In other words, give the lion's share of the great fortunes, unlike us, which we had exactly the opposite logic, 30% average, but 50% for the low assets and 10% for the large ones. Frauding the middle class, which, instead of lightening it, you come and bear it by increasing the electricity price, EUR 100 per household year from 2020 onwards, with the abolition of the permanent tenth-third-year pension, because it was not one off - one-off and one-off - an election allowance, as you said, but a permanent allowance for pensioners, the freezing of minimum wage increases, the new insurance contributions you are preparing for the selfemployed, with the obligation to collect 30% of the evidence of electronic transactions, so that there is access to duty and with a number of other measures, which concern medium- and low incomes. It is also a fraud that your social dividend campaign, which is without shame for three years now, which we have given to those who really needed it and who really were too much, called it crumbs! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And while the crumbs last year were about three and a half million of our fellow citizens, now the beneficiaries are barely more than two hundred thousand households. That's not a dividend. It's a ghost dividend for a large majority. And even greater and more dreadful fraud is the one about people with disabilities, which you said at first will take up to twenty-four years of age and then you said that they will all be taken. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And now you come and give the dividend only to our fellow citizens with disabilities who have an allowance from the OPEKA. All the others, in other words, do not need this protection, even those who get a disability pension of EUR 300? Fraud the so-called budgetary void that SYRIZA left you on July 7 and you say without shame that we left a budget gap and refused the Minister responsible to the SYRIZA team and the former Minister responsible for finance and Efi Ahtsoglou to meet the State's General Accounting Office today? Why? Because you force the officials of the Greek State to cover you at the grek statistics, which you bring again, as you did the previous years when you were in the governance of the country! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] I'm not done. I've got more scams! You're filled with frauds in the political life of the place. By deceit! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Fraud your ultimate state, which turned out to be a state of fake degrees and fake excellence. Your ministers, after each other. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And the problem isn't if they have degrees. The problem is the lie you're rewarding! [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] When we see cleaners going to the courts in this country because they have declared a false degree, you have ministers and do not expel them from your government who have lied! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Fraud, of course, and your pre-election promise to increase the minimum wage to twice the growth rate. Fraud maximum and trishthals, too, the complaint from the Prespecies Agreement as allegedly treacherous, which you are right now to say will be respected and honoured. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Fraud your propaganda's indifference to the refugee question, that SYRIZA was supposed to be the one inviting the refugees, and now you have discovered that it is a geopolitical problem. Fraud even the bulldozers in the Greek. Where are those bulldozers in the Greek? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You told us next week you'll clean it up and it's been five months and the competition isn't over. And, finally, vulgar deception your doctrine of supposed security, the doctrine of law and order. Because you don't believe in the law, Mr. Mitsotakis, nor in the classroom. Because when the law doesn't suit you, you change him, as you did for the Commander of the NSA who had no degree, but you changed the law, so he can be a commander without a degree. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And other critical cases. However, neither the order and the security of citizens are guaranteed, with the leaps of MATs, as if we were in a occupied country. It does not guarantee the security of citizens. Unless the images of policemen who are abused and stripping young people who wear hoods to citizens, as if they were destined for Guantánamo, only because they asked for the law to be implemented and for the presence of a prosecutor to enter their home, if the images, therefore, of policemen having a thousand ways, without even considering the presence of witnesses, are images of a favoured country. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Security, Mr Mitsotakis, does not guarantee irrational, excessive, and once-fascist violence against citizens, especially at the moment of again dominated by generalised insecurity at work, in society, when you abolish all sorts of safety at work, when you impose insecurity on the daily survival of workers, the middle-class and youth, when you undermine any sense of security that we have tried to restore to the most vulnerable, particularly, groups of the population in vital areas such as health and education. When all this happens, then, the display of police violence is not aimed either at public order or at social peace or security. It is, however, aimed at terrorization, repression, intimidation. And I hope that, at least today, you will find two words to say to condemn these incidents, contrary to a series of your ministers today in the TV windows that have passionately defended these incidents. We want to believe that they are individual cases in the Police Corps. But it encourages them one of your own attitudes and attitudes. Even the chairman of the committee - whom Mr Chrysochoidis created - sent you a letter today to condemn and warn you that he cannot be chaired by a committee to investigate cases of police violence when at the end of the day this committee will end up working twenty-four hours a day, as these cases become a daily life. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want in my speech today to go far on what we received in January 2015 and what we delivered in July 2019. Everyone understands that the difference is day by night. But I can't make a brief reference. The last budget of the SYRIZA government, the one of 2019 - which outlines your preliminary draft budget - marked the end of the economic adjustment programmes and the beginning of a new period of budgetary expansion after nine years. This new age principle was not a seed of the accident. It was the fruit of the sacrifices of the Greek people and the hard effort during the three years 2015-2018 to restore the country's lost credibility, to stabilise the economy, to recover access to international markets and to lay the foundations of a virtuous economic development, where the benefits will now be shared fairly. This budget abolished the reduction of personal differences in pensions - this unfair obsession, unnecessarily, of the IMF - and introduced expansive measures of 0.5% of GDP, that is, around 1 billion. To say this more simply, they were measures that protected the most vulnerable households, which strengthened the available income of low and medium-scale units and at the same time supported economic activity. Amongst other things, we had the medium-term reduction in HPAI of 30% - you also voted in the budget last year - the reduction of insurance contributions, the rental subsidy for about three hundred thousand households, recruitment in critical sectors, the social state, education, health and more. This budget was supplemented in May of the same year, as soon as ELSTAT's data came out and there was a further budgetary margin, from a new package of 0.6% of GDP, with the same balanced targeting between social protection and support for economic activity. Amongst other things, it was the reduction of VAT on focus and energy, the provision of permanent - I repeat, as much as it bothers you - aid in the form of a third pension because it was whole for low pensions. It wasn't for the tall ones. It was, however, a permanent - I repeat - significant aid. Overall after the end of the programmes, i.e. from September, 2018 to May 2019, we have adopted permanent measures totalling EUR 2.2 billion and distributed a social dividend of 800 million. Totals, that is, it was 3 billion euros, and you called them crumbs and called them benefits and told us for a fourth memorandum! And so far, you have given - I am talking about 2019-205 million extra to HIFI, and this is about the high-pads and now 175 million million dividends. The sum is 380 million. And you have created the impression, in front of the 3 billion we have given, through the media that of course support you, that you have brought joy, happiness, smile at the lips of the Greek people and of course of the middle class. The truth is that you have brought joy, smile and happiness, but to a few privileged people, to those who will see very large tax reductions in their already profitable profits. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, we in the 2019 expansion budget, ladies and gentlemen, did not present it as a communication flare, but as a first step in a comprehensive plan of a five-year corrective strategy, a strategy where the necessary budgetary balance would be consistent with the rapid restoration of the wounds of the crisis and the restoration of income, of course, of the taxpayers who lifted the heavy burden of adjustment and the heavy burden of supporting recovery. That is why we presented our plan in May, which was about three years ago 2020-2022, when we announced this special account of 5.5 billion for a level playing field for the next three years. And we announced measures, including the abolition of the solidarity levy, the reduction to 50% of the tax advance, the subsidy to companies for young workers and others. These were mediocre measures that only concerned, inclusive, the middle-class. And I wonder, what is your budget doing? Where are these measures or similar to those measures? Where's the relief of the middle class you promised? Is 17 euros a year for those who have an income of 20,000 to 50,000? But we said it was a fraud. You're disturbed by the word, but that's the reality. But in addition to fraud, there is also a philosophy behind it. What's your philosophy? In the face of the necessary reductions in the middle class that we had initiated, you are giving priority to the aggressive reduction in taxation of a small portion of businesses. You are serving, in other words, an economic strategy where it has been tested on the planet has failed. It is the strategy of increasing profits in the hope that it will eventually be translated into investment and jobs. Even worse, however, you are reducing corporate taxation on the basis of a financial area, resulting from the reduction of other critical categories of expenditure, such as expenditure on active employment policies and, of course, from inland assessments of economic growth and tax revenues from the fight against tax evasion. To say this more simply, you are willing to risk it with great sacrifices a conquered financial balance in order to finance the increase in the profits of businesses, hoping that at some point it can bring higher growth rates. In this way, however, an opportunity is missed for the country, the opportunity to get out of the crisis, which we have launched, to be accompanied by an increase in social cohesion, by more social justice and, at the same time, to revive the risks of disrupting budgetary equilibrium. I wish they wouldn't be verified. We have and have plan to move forward, with even more bold steps, in an irreversible strategy for the economy and society, with a greater reduction in household tax burdens, the creation of more jobs for young people, the fight against child poverty and the support of a model of growth, which will be compatible with the challenges of our time, the fourth industrial revolution and climate change. What exactly do you have as a plan? Fill the plate of the most powerful and though when this plate fills and is over, drop a drop for the rest. Your strategy is "many and few to many" and in this way you expect growth to come. But, ladies and gentlemen, and those who are listening to us, that was not the strategy and policies that led us to the crisis? On the contrary, we have attempted not only to get out of the memoranda but also to turn Greece towards the future. We have reduced the unemployment of almost ten units and reversed - look, because this is more important - the trend to reduce the wages imposed on the Greek economy, not only in the years of the memorandum and the crisis, but also in the so-called good years of growth, which preceded the memoranda. With the increase in the minimum wage last year and the abolition of the subordinate, by reintroducing collective bargaining, we have managed to increase the average wage in the private sector by over 4% over the last year and a half. We have reduced inequalities and poverty to a lower level than the one that was before the crisis. In particular, the poverty rate from 23.1% in 2013 deviated to 18.5% in 2018, lower than even the time before the memos. For us, of course, as a party on the left, this is also a large percentage, but for you it is a secondary figure, which, with your political options, you will raise it again. We delivered an economy outside the debt trap on a path of sustainable and fair growth and recovery. In July 2019, in the second quarter of 2019, we delivered an economy of 2.8% of development. We delivered a powerful financial security reserve of about 37,000,000. It is precisely this stock that has enabled the interest rates to be degressed and not your rise to power, Mr Mitsotakis, as you constantly admire, under the constant slandering of the instruments that smuggle you! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Another fraud and this one that interest rates were reduced because Mitsotakis "fourth Memorandum" would come, which is why interest rates fell and not because we ensured with the sacrifices of the Greek people 37,000,000 euros, which give a clear runway and security to investors. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course, instead of financial voids of 400,000,000 in 2019, we handed over a budget surplus of the general government, as the General Account of the State says, in the first half of 2019, of 1,783,000, increased by 263,000,000, compared to the corresponding period of 2018. In short, we have delivered an economy with ever better performance. Let's go to your achievements. In ELSTAT's most recent data, to see your own performance, in the third quarter of 2019 - i.e. in the first quarter of your own governance - the total final consumption expenditure was reduced by 0.4%. Gross fixed capital formation decreased by 5%. At the same time, the number of debtors with due debts to tax and insurance funds increased, while in October, according to the figures of the "ERGANI", we had a negative record of eighteen years in the redundancy balance - recruitments of twenty-six thousand more redundancies than recruitment. These are the first alarming examples of writing your policy. Your budget also significantly reduces the primary development expenditure, the funding of research. And it reduces it not only by 2018 but also by 2017, while we grew it steadily every year, even in the midst of a memorial. In social expenditure, i.e. education, health, social welfare, culture, everywhere, there are either small reductions or stagnation. On the other hand, for the first time, increased expenditure is shown for the offices of Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Secretary-General and Secretary-General and Secretary-General,... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...and also high funds for the so-called "final coordination in the Ministries", i.e. for the multiplicity - supposedly, I will say - the ultimate state of your party. And I wonder, is this true an overall plan, which can safely lead the country to the memorial era, or is it just the repetition of the same recipes that led us to the crisis? But now is the time to look forward, not to repeat the mistakes of the past. The worst thing that could happen in the country is to consider returning to normality to the policies that have led us to the crisis, to consider returning to normality as a return to policies that broaden the social inequalities, which bring about undiversity and the customer state, which do not care for the need to change the production model. International experience teaches us that if we want economic growth to be sustainable, it must go hand in hand with the redistribution and alleviation of inequalities. Redistribution is a prerequisite for growth, because it has proved empirically that reducing inequality is also beneficial. Reinforcement of the wages and social state is the one that increases demand, increases consumption and creates a sustainable upward outlook for GDP. Therefore, your policy - in our view - is not only unfair, but is in the wrong direction. The country after leaving the memorandum does not have to return to the hands and political recipes that led us to them. The country urgently needs an irreversible plan. We need to upgrade the social state and social protection and not cut social benefits. It is necessary to step up labour relations, collective bargaining, the institutional framework for the protection of workers and not dismantling and immunity. It is necessary to upgrade the productive model, invest in human capital, new technologies, innovation and not monoculture in tourism and building and subsidies to those who have access to power, regardless of the productive perspective of their activities. The country needs to upgrade its climate change policy, which means moving to a climate-neutral economy, with environmental protection in priority and not facilities, not bypassing legislation and subsidies to those who pay, even if they destroy the environment by mining, such as Halkidiki, which you now want to take to Thrace. Finally, the country needs to upgrade the functioning of the state and the public administration, deepen the sovereignty and not return to the most vulnerable customer relations between party appointings and over-aged party leaders in public bodies, such as the Father who gave you a thousand votes and made the Governor at the Carditsa Hospital. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This irreversible program has designed, as we planned and implemented the exit from the memorandums, the debt regulation, the upgrading of the country's geopolitical role with the Prespecies Agreement, which has solved a positive difference that should have been solved thirty years ago, but also by upgrading our alliances in the Eastern Mediterranean and in particular by promoting the East Med gas pipeline that changes the balance in the country's favour. As we have planned and implemented all of this in difficult circumstances, so we have also planned the recovery programme of the Greek economy and society after the Memorandums, with EUR 2 billion additional that we planned from the use of the special account in 2020 for social costs, with an additional increase of 7.5% plus 7.5% over the next two years, with further reinforcement of health, research, and the recovery of Brain Drain. And since I'm talking about Brain Drain, I would like to ask you this, Prime Minister: Do you mind that four and a half thousand young graduates, who hold postgraduate qualifications - more than one of them - have been working for a year on an excellent work programme of the Ministry of Labour for the recovery of Brain Drain? It is a programme that can be renewed, but you are reducing the expenditure for OAED by EUR 90 million, and you will only be content with false communication techniques, that it was supposed to be the same time that these four and a half thousand lead them abroad - which are already working in Greece in critical positions for public administration - you will bring - you are saying - another five hundred who are working abroad, but we said that this is your policy, communication and fraud. I will ask you to meet these young people and review, give them a second chance to stay in our country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So we, ladies and gentlemen, have had and have a plan, based on the use of the 'cushion liquidity' for the reduction from now on of surpluses, not in one year or so. Now, of course, we will be given the opportunity to process it better, but I fear that the country does not just lose its pace, it does not lose time, I fear it returns. I read today in a valid newspaper - it does not support SYRIZA, anything else, I would say - that they are asking you to put your hands on the 'cushion' so that the guarantee of 12 billion euros for banks is in cash. You realize what impact this will have, don't you? [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Instead of using the labors of the Greek people, to reduce the surpluses from 2020 - which we would all support you in this - instead of making use of this liquidity reserve for an irreversible program for the economy and those affected by the memoranda, the vulnerable and the middle class, that is, you have failed. You said that we are not opening any debate on the surpluses, no debate on the use of the pillow. Some of you have also said "we are useless, we are a burden that you inherited us". Later, of course, a Member of your Parliament came out in elections and "carted you up", he said you would give it to the banks. You convicted him from election. And now that our people are finally right about the relative proverb that tells us who you are learning the truth. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Only if you do this, if you reduce by EUR 12 billion the pillow to give it to the banks, and you will not see any of it, from its sacrifices, that is, the Greek people and you will negatively affect the cost of borrowing from the markets. I therefore hope that you do not proceed to such an action, of course to anyone else who asks for it, which will adversely affect the management of public debt. Ladies and gentlemen, I am saying this because I have to highlight the dangers. The economy is on tracks, we won't go out and do 'Cassanders'. After all, everyone knows that, whatever you say, this is our job, but the risks are still here, either from returning to policies responsible for the crisis or from the bad management of the crucial tool that we left you as a dowry - the 'liquid liquidity pillow' - or from outsiders. Because developments in the international and European economic environment are alarming and I have been detailed in the economic developments that give rise to concern, but that is not all. They are both geopolitical and our country - you know - they are directly affected by them. We are in a fragile region and our relations with neighbouring countries are a crucial factor in our economic progress and our prosperity, in particular, our relations with Turkey, both because of our open difference with the continent and because of the constant wound of the Cyprus forty-five years now, however, also because of the refugee crisis where Turkey plays a crucial role. Over the past twenty years, our country has rightly based on a dual approach of dialogue and pressure in Turkey to protect its sovereign rights from Turkish aggression and to build a new relationship with its neighbour. We were right to take the lead as a country in the unlocking of Turkey's accession path in 1999-2004, supporting democratic reforms in the neighbouring country and making use of the Helsinki Framework in order to proceed with the exploratory searches to demarcate the continent with the prospect of recourse to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. In this spirit, in 2015-2016, the refugee issue, we tried and were able to take the lead in building a new phase of strategic cooperation in Euro-Turkish relations, a phase that led to the difficult European Union-Turkey declaration, which ensured the rapid reduction in the flow of deaths in the Aegean, but in particular deaths in the Aegean, a phase that allowed us to reach a fairer and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem and ultimately to the 'guteres' framework, a phase that enabled new exploratory but, above all, substantial talks on confidence-building measures. Unfortunately, however - and we must realise that - this Turkey no longer exists. However, it will be historic and existential - I would say - mistaken to decide that since this Turkey is no longer in existence, there should also be no Greece, Greece, the dialogue, the values, the international law. It would be very simple to say today that the only solution is to bring back the flows, to relaunch refugees and migrants who Turkey does not prevent them, in violation of the European Union-Turkey declaration, from talking about the days of regulars, and to make our own media reveal in Sunday papers, with vulgar titles, the very top-secret conditions of the Warship, from talking about dialogue abstractly, but to end with leaks, just before you meet Mr Erdogan, from the Ministry of Defence, the dialogue on confidence-building measures. However, Greece 2020 should not follow Turkey down to the 20th century chosen by President Erdogan. The Greek people must know that, and both the Turkish friend and the democratic forces must know on both shores of the Aegean. Greece must remain stable in the European compass and the values it has chosen in the 21st century for the management of Greek-Turkish, after a devastating decade that has reached us once again on the verge of war. We must be very clear about what that means. Firstly, it means a peaceful policy, but peaceful policy does not mean that we are not looking to defend our sovereign rights. We will be against the pro-war screams of nationalist media, the nationalist press that are supported by irresponsible government leaks and expose our country. We fully support the upgrading of the deterrent force of the Armed Forces to protect our sovereign rights against any threat. Within the worst years of the crisis, we ensured the upgrading of F-16 and a few days ago we voted in favour of the relevant bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u217	You've voted for it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u218	What's wrong with you? You want me to remind you what your representatives were saying when they were talking about scandal, when we upgraded the F-16 and now the Minister of National Defence - and that is right - says 'I prefer to be taken to a special court rather than to vote for it'. We are not going to take this position on national issues, to be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u219	That's what we're talking
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u220	What do you think? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Unfortunately, I find it hard to have a dialogue...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u221	Please, ladies and gentlemen. We're not an armaments committee. We're in the budget debate. Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, the message that the country should send to these critical hours from its leadership - and that is what we will actually be able to discuss in the Committee on Equipment - must be a message of determination and dialogue. It cannot be a message to show a good mood on both sides, nor that we are afraid of a 'hot' episode. I think these statements - to be diligent, because it is not my intention today to criticise - are unfortunate statements. The message must be that our Armed Forces are capable of guaranteeing and guaranteeing in any case and will not allow any questioning of Greek sovereign rights. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So, firstly, a peaceful policy with a decisive message and, secondly, an active diplomacy. Once again, we must fight to incorporate our interests in the Euro-Turkish framework. As we have worked with Helsinki, as we did in the refugee sector, we must today also operate with sanctions. Greece must fight with all its diplomatic forces and veto, if necessary, to extend European sanctions against companies and persons who will act in the area of the illegal Turkey- Libya agreement. We must all learn in Europe, but also our neighbours, that the price of European diplomatic failure will be enormous. That's what had to be done yesterday. At least let it happen today. The pluralism on these issues, you know, is the parallel and contradictory statements between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence on the MOI, between your Minister of Foreign Affairs and your Deputy Minister of State, who stated in the budget debate that we will not claim and we did not claim strategic sanctions, but only when Turkish ships come to violate the Greek exclusive economic zone south of Crete - that is what Mr Varvitsiotis said - only harm the country. We must therefore seek and sit at the table for Libya's future. We cannot miss this, as we have achieved in the Berlin process for the Western Balkans, to intensify the talks with Egypt on the delimitation of the EEZ, but above all, we must ensure that your visit to the United States will lead to a clear message from President Trump that EAST MED will proceed between Cyprus and Crete and that Figure 3 plus 1 with Cyprus and Israel will be re-examined. You know, and I conclude, as a government, we fought and secured the strategic dialogue with the United States and we prepared the revision of the defence agreement which we are discussing next year to adopt and which concerns four military installations in our country. You know, we did this, obviously, not from an ideological approach but from a national responsibility, recognising that our interests, the interests of the country with the United States converged in the need for Greece to become a strong pillar of peace and stability in the region. But if the United States considers that we can play this role, and at the same time our sovereign rights will be threatened in such a clear way, then Greece should not be given a given. Since no one should think of us. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I want to be clear. This agreement cannot go ahead unless the two above conditions do not go ahead first. Of course, our third objective must be dialogue on the basis of international law, the creation of the conditions, the resumption of investigations and, if they do not go ahead, the talks on a confiscation in order to appeal to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. At these extremely critical moments, our message must be clear: We will protect our sovereign rights by all means, but our aim is not to follow Turkey on the deadlock of conflict and of fait accompli. The aim is to resolve our dispute on the basis of International Law and peace in our region, which will bring prosperity and prospects for economic development. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with this: you will tell me a budget, yes, but the hours are critical, especially in the debate on the budget and the course of the economy, we must take into account the stability, security and peace in our region, so forgive me if I am extended. Our country is once again at a critical crossroads. We, I say again, are not just here to make opposition, we are here to intervene, as creatively as we can, to intervene for the sake of the social majority, for the sake of the country, the Greek people, as we are of course aware. So the budget you are presenting to us is unfair and the main thing is in the wrong direction. It produces greater contradictions and risks for the economy at a time when we believe it is time for citizens to feed the fruits of their sacrifices. The Greek people deserve a better tomorrow and we believe that as always, now this better tomorrow can only win it through its struggles. We are therefore voting against the New Democracy government budget and we call on workers, youth, middle-class, farmers, the people of the spirit to be vigilant. The road forward for the country has not been cancelled, it has simply been suspended. With their own struggles soon this path forward will become a reality again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Ioannis Vroutz, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, is invited to Step for 10 minutes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with three comments. The first relates to the position of Chief of Staff. Mr. Tsipras, either from acquired speed or from habit, confused the word fraud. It doesn't explain any other way. So it's because fraud and delusion are either consciously or ignorant of altering the truth, deforming even the sizes, the evidence in front of you and recorded in the budget. I am sure that after the evidence, which I will quote, Mr Tsipras will invoke his advisers, who have once again exposed him to what he has said. One more thing. I understand the irritation of the President of the Officer's Representation, why else would he explain the unexplained explanation of him that the first budget of Mr. Mitsotakis is socially better and has a stronger social footprint than Mr. Tsipras's budget? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And because we speak with truths and realities and not delusional ones, listen to three numbers, to start the debate on this basis. So deception and fraud, Mr. Tsipras. Social State: Kyriakos Mitsotakis budget, page 116, social security institutions EUR 42,973,000. Budget Alexis Tsipras, previous budget, page 91, 41,854,000 euros. Mitsotakis' budget is better! Secondly, the OPEKA sector where all the benefits are. On page 92 of Mr Tsipras's last budget, EUR 3,203,000. This year, page 117, budget Kyriakos Mitsotakis 3,499,000 euros. Better budgets for allowances and social protection. Thirdly, because there has also been reference to this, the OAED budget. Last year, page 91, 2,578,000 euros. This year, page 116, 2,714,000 euros. What's the deception and what's the delusion, Mr. Tsipras? Who defends the social interest and has a strong social footprint? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The other remarks I have to make, ladies and gentlemen, are matters relating to the budget. And I'm explaining. This year's budget, the New Democracy Government's budget, is not only an important and separate budget, because it includes and concentrates on political elements and economics, which show dynamic growth, unemployment reduction, VAT reduction, reduction in HISA, strong social intervention and social policy. It's not just that, it's something more important. It is the budget - a bridge of the transition of a decade of painful budgetary measures to a new, virtuous 2020-2030. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Let us just think that this budget opens the door in the next decade, a decade, in which with the dynamics of the current government, we will see unemployment reach the average of Europe at 6.8%. In the decade in which he enters, we will see Greece at the highest levels of growth ever. In the decade in which he enters we will see digital Greece, for the first time we will see no unfinished pensions, this impending, but we will see the digital pension. We will see a healthy, powerful state insurance system, a public-government insurance system, which will be attractive and for everyone will be an appeal area for the next day when they leave their working life. Moreover, it is worth seeing how this budget was built. It was built the previous period. Within seven months real structural changes have been made, which if anyone tries to analyse, he will say that historically there has never been a government that moves at this speed, with such consistency and with such efficiency. Just think about what the outcome of bills happened in the previous period. I see the Minister of Justice to my right. There was reform in justice, tax reform a little while ago, reform in education, reform in the defence of Mr Chrysochide's issues, reform of the issues of social security, that is, the reform that comes with regard to social security, reform of the labour market, reform of the state of affairs of Mr Gerapititi. All these reforms took place in a concentrated time, changed everything and brought results. And there are two basic questions raised. First question: why are you doing all this and why are we doing all this? Let's see numbers prosper, as many people say? Let's see financial sizes in the budget display go well? The answer is: 'not for it'. The aim of our policy is man, worker, weak, retired. We are doing all this to create an environment of economic potential to support the citizen, man. That is the spear of our policy and we are doing it. I come to the second question. The second question is: 'Well, and all this has brought results'? So here's the answer to what Mr. Tsipras also raised just before 'ERGANIS', which in 2012-2014 was called'montazier', in 2015-2019 they thanked her and now I'm afraid they will deny her because it presents positive elements. The annual "ERGANI" we will present tomorrow condenses in it all the sizes for 2019. So let's see what he says, he has an interest: In 2018, we had two hundred and fifty-seven thousand three hundred thirteen businesses. In 2019, we had two hundred and sixty-five thousand two hundred twelve enterprises, that is seven thousand eight hundred nine nine companies were created more in the second half of 2019. The jobs of one million ninety-sixty-seven thousand twenty-three came to two million eighty-five thousand eighty-one, eighty-eighty-eighty, eighty-eighty-eighty eighty-eighty-eighty new jobs. Full - time workers of one million three hundred eight thousand sixty-four arrived at one million three hundred seventy - four hundred eighty - two, sixty - five thousand seventeen hundred full - time jobs. New entrants on the labour market, namely young workers, from seventy thousand three hundred seventy-one, sixty-five thousand seventy-eight - 83.83% - are full-time, while the percentage on the full-time labour market in 2017 was 68.4%, in 2018 it was 68.5% and in 2019 it was 69.2%. I am tabling the annual 'ERGANI' which Mr Tsipras referred to just now to take another delusion into the arguments that he just said here from a step. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As regards unemployment, the open wound of Greek society, the results may not be what we want, but they are constantly improving, we are going for the better. In July 2018, we had 19.1% unemployment, while in July 2019 we had 16.9% unemployment. In August 2018, we had 18.9% unemployment, while in August 2019 we had 16.71% unemployment and forecasts are for unemployment at the end of 2020 to 15%, according to the report of enhanced supervision. That is our policy, that is our effort. Unfortunately, Mr Tsipras' account - and here too is the irritation - of the social state that would collapse, that we would not pay allowances, that unemployment would rise, it collapsed completely. I am now going very briefly to the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, what has been done on the labour market and brought these results to policy level are important, but other important things are coming. Indeed, the reform of the labour market, the first bill that we brought, brought these results, liberated creative forces that created jobs, as I described just now. In addition, within the framework it comes, we are preparing 'ERGANI II', which is coming very much on the whole market, in favour of workers and in favour of businesses. It introduces digital hours for the first time and the worker's card comes, also for the first time. In the first half of 2020 comes codification - a great reform - of labour legislation and a reduction in contributions only for full-time employment. This is what policies really are that touch the worker and show the real interest that you want to strengthen full employment. In addition, what will come in 2020 is modernisation after forty years under Law 1264/1982, the famous trade union law. I'm making it clear that there are no misunderstandings. Trade unionism for the New Democracy is a pillar of democracy, as is the strike of a sacred right, but the trade union framework now needs to be modernised. Because what happened yesterday was not a trade union freedom, with the twenty-workers in the capacity - in the form of introductory or non-important terms - of the trade unionist worries millions of our fellow citizens. It wasn't trade union freedom, it was tyranny, and it wasn't trade unionism, it was felony and irrational. And at the end of the day, these 'trade union' behaviours undermine the trade union movement itself, alter what it needs to do, the aim of defending employment rights, when it turns the whole society against it. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. I have left lastly the issue raised by Mr Loverdos, too, quite rightly. Mr. Loverdo, you raised the crucial issue of the country's insurance system. In January, therefore, we are bringing about a major reform of insurance, which respects the past. Areas that you developed just before, with absolute respect in 2012-2014 when I was Minister of State, I fully respected them, and I said that, in fact, like the CEPOL, they were in the right direction and the national and proportionate pension will be maintained because they are in the right direction. As we will keep from the previous law good areas, but we are now going to have a structural change in the system, so that we can get to an insurance system perfectly attractive, which all Greeks will embrace, a public universal system that gives sufficient and decent pensions, which will increase supplementary pensions on the Council of State decisions, from EUR 1.300 and upwards, and we will increase - according to the studies currently being carried out at the National Analogue Authority - and the main pensions from a number of years and on the production process. That is our goal, that is our prospect, to stop today's insurance that punishes creativity, punishes productivity, punishes the man who wants to create, and we change that in January 2020 and I will also call for the support of all political forces. Because I have heard some criticism - I believe there will not be - that we will even keep the title of the insurance funds of the ECA, but we are renamed to e-ECA, i.e. digital ECA - National Social Security Institution. We are moving on to the last unification. Under the umbrella of e-ECA, the subsidiary - simply organisational and administrative integration - and the one-off one, will be integrated in order to complete this cycle of unification in the interests of the Greek people, the pensioners. I've been hoping for many years, merry Christmas, health in our homes. I hope that 2020 will be the beginning, for our country, for all Greeks and Greek women, of a better day that this budget really gives this hope and optimism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-two students and students and four educational attendances from the 2nd Kavalas High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stagiras, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, we are concluding today the debate on the 2020 budget, the first budget of the Government of New Democracy with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It is a budget that is being discussed in a liquid outside environment, particularly in our neighbourhood, where Turkey, acting as arrogant and threats of riot, is constantly creating tensions. Greece is traditionally a factor of stability. In the present circumstances where the Eastern neighbour behaves arbitrarily, we must immediately form a solid, social and political internal front, strengthening the country's internal security and deterrent capacity. I believe that we all understand that the strengthening of the economy is a capable and very necessary treaty for the country's overall strengthening. Ladies and gentlemen, in this environment and in economic conditions, the government seeks to serve specific objectives and serve them. It actually embodies, as Mr Varoufakis said, values, but does not involve delusion, making progress in the implementation of its programme commitments in conditions of budgetary discipline, reminiscent of optimism, but not exceeding the limits of realism, demonstrating credibility, strengthening confidence in the institutions, serving the development process, achieving a balance of economic efficiency and social justice. In conclusion, the budget speeds up the economic pitfall towards full normalisation and strengthening the country on the international ground. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial staff set specific targets for 2020. Objectives that we will serve and approach with policies that are distinguished for consistency and effectiveness, but assess their implementation in the process and their results. First target. Achieving strong, high and sustainable economic growth. How? By increasing quantity and productivity and improving the quality of national wealth, the country will increase its competitiveness on international markets. We aim to develop 2.8% for 2020 with a reconstructing of GDP components, namely consumption, exports, but above all investments, to ensure the sustainability of its growth. Here I would like to insist a little. Very few people talked about the investments. The budget lays the foundations for addressing the great problem of the Greek economy. As a result of the decrease in the volume of investments in the first phase of the crisis, the sharp deterioration of business expectations and liquidity conditions in 2015 and the unexpected redecrease in investments in 2018. The full use of the available inputs and the replacement of the lost capital stock are keys to the transition of the economy to higher production capacities. The new political targeting is investment as a percentage of GDP double over the next few years as soon as possible. Investments that will incorporate the achievements of the fourth industrial revolution and stimulate endogenous sources of development, such as education, research and innovation. Second target. The reduction of unemployment, the redistribution of income and the promotion of social cohesion. Mr Tsakalotos, we are obviously concerned about these issues. Reduce unequal distribution and strengthen social justice. This is a key factor in creating the necessary inner social front. Third target. The further development of mutually beneficial cooperation with partners and allies, without unnecessary 'yes' and without unnecessary 'no'. The country no longer concerns its economic issues with international economic institutions. The participation of the Minister of Finance in international fora has been completely dismantled. Reliability has helped to shape this climate. Fourth objective. Healthy and disciplined public finances. In an environment of overall reduction in the taxation of households and businesses, it is necessary to provide absolute budgetary discipline on the expenditure side with targeted increases, but after evaluating results and benefits. Fifth target. The ever greater reduction in citizens' taxation as soon as possible and outside the budget, even in 2020, if it is established safely as we have so far proved. This will help to broaden the tax base through the hit on tax evasion, which for us is equivalent to a fight for social justice. This is aimed at strengthening electronic transactions, by adjusting the objective values, especially in areas with very high real estate value, by strengthening controls on short-term rental platforms, by strengthening electronic books and electronic invoicing. I call on the citizens to contribute to this effort so that we can all pay taxes less and fairer. First target. Enhancing liquidity in the real economy by making the available European funds available, by implementing the Public Investment Programme, by reducing public dues, by progressive credit expansion. Seventh target. Improving the ability to repay the public debt. The aim of the loan strategy will be to ensure the continued public publishing presence on international capital markets, to further reduce borrowing margins and to further strengthen the confidence of international rating houses and the investment community. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the objectives of the budget, ambitious but realistic, measurable and successful objectives. On this, however, the wards of the Opposition, in particular, sought, invented or made criticisms and used words that were heavy, such as 'a fraud' or 'a lack of credibility'. I'll answer all of them with data. I would, of course, ask the Civic Opposition, given that it has until recently been governing the country, to be more honest, more careful and less vague in its criticism. I'm explaining. Civic Opposition, first of all, claims - and its President said so - that he delivered the economy in good condition. But she's forgetting that she took the economy to growth, brought it back...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u227	That's a joke.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u228	You liked it. The budget of Mr. Tsakalotou confirming the development of 2014. If you don't believe them, here's what you're signing. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We delivered the economy to growth. You have returned it to the recession for two years and you have been unable to achieve any developmental objective for four years. Here the divergence in growth over the years you have been ruling. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Varoufakis spoke about the period 2012-2014 and my involvement in the Ministry of Finance. Yeah, I'm proud. We received the economy with a recession of 9.1% and in three years we delivered it with +1%. Then, sadly, you're here. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What else did you deliver? You delivered an economy with a budget gap in 2019, and yes, you should have informed Mr. Tsipras. It was the meeting yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u229	The second one didn't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u230	As soon as you sent a letter to me, immediately Mr. Skulakakis came and told you whenever you want. The members of the General Accounting Office of the State came, the executives you had placed in these positions and showed the budget gap of EUR 396 million in 2019 and 1.050 in 2020. And please respect the civil servants. Honor them and respect them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u231	And you let them do their job. And listen to the arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u232	Don't interrupt, please. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u233	I didn't interrupt you. Soon your turn. And because these are the elements of the General Accounting Office of the State, take the third evaluation report of the institutions. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What else did you leave us the economy with? With investments to break down, with the competitiveness of the economy each year retreat. Every year we went down to competitiveness. Here, for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With private debt growing, and you haven't informed Mr. Tsipras correctly. I have additional information. The new due date for the respective months this year is increasing at a much lower rate than in previous years. Let him know. This is for private debt. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With the overdue debts of individuals, they have not been cleared. You were personally committed in August 2018 to zero. And they didn't get zeroed. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because Mr Varoufakis is here too, I would say that the'red' loans were a great success. It's where we delivered it in 2014, 43%. This is the great reduction of red loans on your day. But because Mr. Varoufakis didn't recognize any harm to himself, I'll show him a damage. The banks, the valuation, the costs of Greek taxpayers by your government, all here in the first half of 2015. Full collapse of the shares held and held by Greek citizens in Greek banks. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Conclusion: SYRIZA handed over the economy to anemic performance, growth and most of its capital. The third evaluation report of last June, why didn't you submit it all in the Minutes? It captures this situation and the great loose ends you left us as a deposit. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second claim: the Civic Opposition claims that the financial margin for the second half of 2019 is due to the better progress of the economy in the first six months. He forgets that a substantial review was only made in the second quarter with a very low base of 2018. Mostly, however, due to the advancement and expectations of government change after the election result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u234	Wonderful!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u235	And you know, because you laughed, and I'll answer every time you answer, there's a very interesting study. How many times after the election there is reference to insecurity or uncertainty, generally, about the economy in the country. And you'll see it's dropped to the lowest level of the last decade. Well, because there's climate change, but you don't understand it. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I would remind you, not only of our own elements, that we should not talk about university colleagues, that we should go to the Executive Director of the European Stability Mechanism, Mr Regling, whom after the election, if I understand you well, you are passing on to him. Mr Regling said there is market confidence in the new government's economic policies. That's what you don't understand. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Only you do not realize that something has changed for the better in the country after 7 July. With regard to the budget area that was set up in the second half of the year, this is due - and Mr Loverdos, you know very well that I have submitted complete data - to the significant excess of VAT revenue after June, to the improvement of the EMI's collection due to the reduction of the EMI, greater involvement of the citizens in the new framework for the regulation of private debts, careful financial management of expenditure. Conclusion: the financial space was created in the second half of 2019 and is exclusively due to the hierarchical manipulations of the new government and Prime Minister. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And this financial area, do you know how much it is? Mr. Tsipras didn't count well again. It is more than EUR 1 billion, and if we put the 2020 reductions on more than EUR 2.2 billion. In five months, EUR 2.2 billion. And where did this EUR 1 billion go to see our differences? It went safely and in a socially fair way to seven million thousands of property owners with the reduction of HPAI, went to six hundred thousands of our compatriots with the payment of an increased heating allowance, went to many businesses by reducing the tax advance for legal persons, went to the aid of PPC, went to five hundred and eighty thousand citizens to regulate their debts, went to National Defence, went to health, went to the daily life of the citizen and went to more than two hundred and fifty thousand households, to over one million citizens for the distribution of exceptional financial support. Thirdly, the Qualifying Opposition claims that the exceptional aid granted by this government is ‘flying’. But he forgets that this year's social dividend, the SYRIZA government had distributed it for election reasons as a so-called thirteenth pension and that it then depleted any budget space, a few days before the elections, narrating the scope for the next government. In this Chamber on May 15, 2019, the then Minister of Finance said: "We took out all the space and whoever wants greater reductions, tell us where you were going to cut." You've exhausted the whole space then, and you know it. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But you said something else, very interesting. Let's show it up again. Twelve days ago you said that the aim was to reduce the dividend this year by allegedly granting a thirteenth pension. You did not admit that you would not pay dividends, because you gave a third pension. And that in the Minutes, just like you said. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The truth, therefore, is that the SYRIZA Government, as it has confessed, did not leave a single euro for social dividends, and we created and create a financial area of EUR 175 million, perhaps a little more. But I want to be honest and responsible. This government will not share any wealth that does not exist. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Fourthly, the Civic Opposition claims that the election firework of New Democracy has been erased. I heard the former Prime Minister talking about fraud. For the first time - I am thirteen years in here - I hear this about a government which, in five months' time, has implemented all of its programme commitments in the field of the economy. I would remind them that the repetition is a mother of all learning: We have covered the budgetary gap for the years 2019 and 2020. We have successfully completed the fourth institutional evaluation report. We proceeded with a brave reduction in the ENPIA. We have improved the framework for regulating citizens' debts. We simplified the procedures for the protection of first residence and extended the existing framework by four months, which by law of the SYRIZA government would end in ten days. We have abolished capital restrictions. We proceeded with flagrant investment projects. We promote privatizations. We have launched and completed the repayment of the exact portion of the IMF's loans. We have legislated a framework for buying online gambling. A pro-development tax bill was passed. A systemic solution was adopted to reduce ‘red’ loans to bank portfolios. And I wonder what Mr. Tsipras said. EUR 12 billion is guarantees. The guarantees are neither in deficit nor in debt. You should know that, because by relying on the right choice of the government of Kostas Karamanlis, you made EUR 85 billion of guarantees after the games of the first half of 2015. So, what are the things I heard today? The 12 billion are guarantees, neither deficit nor debt. And we are now prolonging for six months the reduced rate of VAT on the five Aegean islands affected by migratory flows. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The implementation of this policy grid is positively evaluated by partners, investors, markets, evaluation houses, but primarily by Greek citizens. This is demonstrated by public reports of domestic and international actors and bodies, by the success of interest rate and debt issues, by the upgrades of rating houses, by the significant improvement of the economic climate and consumer confidence index. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is moving forward quickly and safely, with seriousness, determination, confidence, responsibility and, above all, Mr Tsakalotos, moderation. And now I come to you, who would like me not to place myself on these issues, but you have caused me, because you said without a trace of self-criticism that there is no vote of credibility in this government and that you have something similar to see since 1938. I will insist a little on 2015-2017 and submit to the Minutes yourself, to see if you recognize him. On 31 October 2015, ‘I promise that the liquidation of the red loans will be completed by the end of 2015’. And you left us the red loans where you received them. Your credibility. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In a question by Mr Voridis, on 18 May 2017: "In a few months there will be no capital control". [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On October 20, 2017: "Until the end of the year, we will have a law on the purchase of games". You didn't make it. We did it. Two years was a long time. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I go to the climax of your credibility "red line the tax-free" and you would have resigned. Did you reduce your tax rate and didn't give up and talk about credibility? A little modesty and self-criticism wouldn't hurt. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fifth, the Opposition claimed that the assessments of this government for growth are optimistic. I'll join you for a while. Invoke the institutional elements. But if you accept them, it means that you accept that the economy will run at 2.3% in 2020, so better than 2019. So you admit, without you knowing it, that the economy in 2020 will be better off than 2019, because not even an international body thinks that we will be going worse than we were. Everyone says the image of the economy will be even better. And we think we're going even better. Why? Because, with the implementation of the tax draft, policies are integrated with high multiplier development effects. Sixthly, the Qualified Opposition claims that the New Democracy Government - Mr Tsipras said so - implements class policies. The most classic Memorandum Government, that is, SYRIZA that passed through the country, claims this. We, without claiming to be abolishing social and income classes, are planning and implementing policies for all citizens, with particular emphasis on the lower and medium-income layers, so that yes, we can reduce social inequalities. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] First of all, we have reduced the ENPI for all citizens. We chose the reduction in the lower income layers to remain higher but we reduced the property tax and the remaining 42% of society that pays 60% of the tax, which you had completely ignored and to which it belongs and a large part of the middle class. Secondly, for example, we have reduced the tax rate on income tax for natural persons from 22% to 9%, just as we had previously committed. In combination with the reduction in HPAI, because economic policy is not only the income tax on natural persons, it is also a set of measures from the new income tax scale - a reduction in the tax burden is expected in the lower layers by 23%, in the middle incomes by 16% and in the highest incomes by 7% and we are also reducing inequality. Thirdly, we are reducing the income tax on legal persons from 28% to 24% for all businesses, small, medium-sized, large. Where did you see the classics? Fourth example, the tax bill helps the economic activity of the productive part of the economy, to which the middle class belongs. The benefits in kind for workers, the intelligent recovery of building activity, the strengthening of corporate social responsibility, the reduction of insurance contributions together with policies for employment opportunities, for safety, for improvements in education and for strict control of migration flows will gradually restore the middle class so that we can see it back where it really has to be rather than where it is today. Seventhly, the Qualified Opposition claims that tax reductions do not help the development process. Mr. Chakalotos said so many times. In the search engine for scientific articles - I am focusing on this - the combination of the words ‘tax reduction’ and ‘economy’ presents 2.8 million scientific studies analysing the issue. In a relevant survey of literature - I will put it in the Minutes - in the twenty-three out of the twenty-six studies it is shown that the impact of increased taxes on economic growth is negative. Therefore, any tax reform aimed at reducing the overall burden will lead to growth by increasing investment, employment, wages and related living standards, and also by reducing tax evasion as a whole. The government of Antonis Samaras delivered the "VAT vocabulary", i.e. tax evasion in VAT, to the lowest of the memorandum years, and you increase it every year. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. Of course, tax reductions are not panacea, they are part of a wider economic policy, strengthening incentives for production and work with a view to creating a friendly business environment in order to speed up growth. Eighth, the Qualified Opposition claims that the government is socially irreversible. Obviously it refers to a scarecrow that it has built for the New Democracy, in order to somehow build a opposition. In fact, exactly the opposite is true. Comprehensive - pay attention to the term - social policy of the government, not detached from the rest of economic policy, aims at social efficiency and justice, and is based on five pillars: maintaining the social protection net through the necessary benefits, such as the child's allowance, social solidarity income, housing benefits and so on, dealing with the demographic problem with policies such as the granting of a social benefit for every young child, the tax supplement, the reduced VAT rate for infants, the fight against tax evasion, the restoration of justice and ensuring the sustainability of the social security system, the reduction of overtaxation and the granting of exceptional support to sensitive social groups. The social budget, therefore, comes to confirm that the current government is practically supporting the strengthening of social cohesion, and it goes very much to you to move us to the finger, which you have cut off the EASA and imposed or increased health contributions. And, of course, I'll repeat it. You are the only Memorandum Government that reduced in May 2016 the tax-free. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, ninthly, the Qualified Opposition claims to be abandoning the objective of reducing primary surpluses. How many times do I have to repeat that reducing primary surpluses is at the core of this government? The question, however, is how we approach this objective, and we approach it with documentation and responsibility. I accept, of course, that SYRIZA is uncompetitive in expressing his desires as realities. He claims - and Mr Tsipras reiterated this again today - that it would achieve a reduction in surpluses by creating a special account. I will repeat for the time being that on 7 May 2019 Mr Tsipras specifically mentioned: "Today I ordered and opened a special account in which we deposited in the next 5.5 billion days". Such an account so far does not exist. What did he order? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Didn't you keep his order? Mr. Juliarakis didn't follow his mandate? Don't tell me, as I heard Mr. Drasakis yesterday, 'Why don't we?' Because we have not confused cash with budgets. But I will tell you this. From May 7th. That's it. Until 7 July, what did you do two months? After giving you a mandate from the Prime Minister - the then Prime Minister - why didn't you open up? Didn't you two months get past it or didn't it happen? You know the answer well. Our approach is serious. The highest growth rates, the low borrowing costs, the early repayment of the IMF and the use of profits by Greek bonds for development initiatives will improve the sustainability parameters of the public debt, enabling us in 2020 to claim a reduction in the primary surplus target. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I am codified. There are significant differences between our economic policy and SYRIZA's respective planning and implementation. Because I hear other parties say that we are the same. We do not practice class policies. SYRIZA exercised. We are addressing the wide-ranging people's forces and we are pursuing and gradually succeed in restoring the middle class. SYRIZA destroyed it. We seek to raise the pie in the economy and share it more fairly. SYRIZA was recycled the misery. We believe in the need to reduce taxes. SYRIZA likes the overtaxation of citizens. We seek to attract investment. SYRIZA ideally fights them. We are implementing policies to strengthen both supply and demand in the economy. SYRIZA only deals with demand. We are implementing a coherent social policy. SYRIZA only implements subsidised policies. We are implementing policies based on the principles of radical, social liberalism and the social market economy. SYRIZA's still looking. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that the budget shows that the economy has positive dynamics, dynamics that stabilises, improves and mobilizes forces, both inside and outside Greece, both domestic and foreign. After the long-term adventure, the economy seems gradually coming out in the clearing. We know, of course, that magical recipes do not exist. There are no short paths for the places that, as a country, we deserve to go. It's wrong and it's gonna happen. However, they are recognised within the framework of the practicability and limitations. Uncertainties exist, risks neglect, structural problems continue to exist. Awareness doesn't justify it. In the vehicle of the country we are all boarding, so we must move without personals, without party calculations, away from deceit, populism and elitism. I believe that we all understand that reality imposes social and political shocks, creative compositions, national plan, hard work, demands patriotic consciousness, wisdom, realism, requires security and a sense of justice. Only in this way will we shape the new modern sustainable domestic holistic model, which can push the economy and society into a virtuous cycle of prosperity for all citizens, in a strong and internationally decent Greece. That is why I call on you to vote on the 2020 budget, the first, essentially, development budget for the last decade, a budget aimed at strengthening the country and promoting individual and social prosperity. We have made our basic choice: we are moving with the many, for the many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u237	Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u238	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last year, from this Step I said that the 2019 budget would be the last of a bad government to take Greece back. The citizens have justified this forecast and the 2020 budget is the first budget of the self-government Government of New Democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Our choice is full of responsibility, because we know why we have won and also know what Greeks and Greeks expect from us. Some others did not understand why they lost, and they do not realize that citizens are no longer expecting any of them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A reference will only be made to the position of Mr Tsipras, in its first part, because in the second part the tone of his speech has changed quite considerably. Mr. Tsipras, you know the psychologists say there are five phases of emotion management after a great loss. [[Noise - laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] In this regard, it was the loss of the power I am talking about, not any other loss. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's denial, it's anger, it's negotiation, depression and acceptance. Judging by your style today, you're still at the stage of anger. I hope you get to acceptance without passing through the other two stages. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I was listening to you describe the image of Greece in the first months of 2019 and I was wondering what heaven we lived on and we didn't appreciate it, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And because you've talked a lot about fraud, Mr. Tsipras, you're not a fraud detector. Producer of fraud is also fraud and lying are words forbidden for you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget, the first government in New Democracy, does not contain surprises and fireworks. It merely illustrates the policies for which we have received the confidence of the Greek people. I committed myself to the Greek people for three key priorities. I'm gonna cut the taxes. I will create many, good, new jobs and restore safety and that is exactly what this government is doing. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is a consequence of words and actions rewarded by the citizens. Because the budget relieves the middle class and cares for the weaker through an organised tax reduction plan. But it also creates a vital space for the development and creation of new wealth, triggering individual advancement and mobility upwards. In short, it is a budget that writes end titles in a failed policy, becoming the optimistic road map for Greece's new course in the third decade of the 21st century. And the advancement of this new course has already been reflected in the work carried out since July, on specific initiatives by the government, in thirty-two drafts of legislation which were passed, many of which have also found wider parliamentary support from the opposition parties. I welcome that. They were laws which provide for arrangements for all levels of public life, the organization of the state, the reduction of taxes, the stimulation of investment, to the safety of universities and roads. In a new constitution that enthusiastically shields political life, it releases the election of the President of the Republic from the elections, while establishing the minimum guaranteed income for the weak and finally facilitates the vote of Greeks abroad, with almost universal cross-party consent. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We take daily measures aimed at the heart of society. The reduction of drug prices by the Ministry of Health, the abolition of tails for heavy patients, the reorganization of civil protection. Within the first five months the government covered the budget gap that we received. And don't question, Mr. Tsipras, the valid state officials of the General Accounting Office. They did the job well for your own days and do the job well for our own days, because that is their duty. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We reduced earlier than expected HNVO by 22%, a measure which relieved seven million two thousand million households. The heating allowance was paid earlier this year. We increased it twice so that more beneficiaries could take advantage of it, and by Christmas almost three hundred thousand vulnerable households receive exceptional Christmas aid. With the new tax bill, all companies, not only large ones, but also small ones, will henceforth pay less tax. On a second front, the capital control was finally abolished for four years. Six hundred thousand new borrowers entered the new arrangements. The treatment of red loans with the plan ‘HRAKLIS’ was initiated. Large investments, not only the Greek one, have been detached and a new impetus has been given to the dismantling program, always in the public interest. The expensive portion of the IMF’s loans was also repaid. PPC's been saved. It moves on to an optimistic future, however, always under state control. It is no accident, therefore, that the European Commission's last fourth report was the most positive of all. Nor is it accident, Mr Tsipras, that Greece today is borrowing at negative rates. All of this is reflected internationally in the upgrading of the country by international rating agencies, its progress in all indicators of the economic climate. The country's borrowing costs, ten years of bonds for the first time after much lower than Italy's, Mr. Tsipras. This isn't your creation. It's a creation of this government. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There is also an intangible gain on the inside. It runs society horizontally. It's the diffuse optimism, the mood for creation. We can now talk about Christmas decorations. We have this luxury. Citizens - get out of here - they are more optimistic, they are happier and this is a great conquest for our Government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There is faith that things can finally go forward and that is the positive response of the Greeks to our own unnegotiable slogan. We've said it and we're doing it. This consequence is rewarded today, Mr Tsipras, by Greek citizens. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will not invoke many numbers and statistics in my speech. After all, all this was presented in detail in the past few days by our speakers, by the Minister of Finance and our great differences with yesterday were expressed in the polls five and a half months ago. Greece looked in the mirror of self-knowledge, acknowledged errors and lost opportunities, condemned demagogy, condemned declaring, choosing the self-powered path of truth, progress and result. This option is a choice that is justified every day. I shall therefore avoid the usual quotes of cold elements, as will political classifications. We said we weren't forgetting, but we're moving on. I am therefore facing, Mr Tsipras, tonight's process in this House as a field of political dialogue, where it is possible as a centre for convergence, despite our old differences, to discuss at a new border, this between stagnation and prosperity. It is an opportunity to highlight the maturity and the willingness of the parties to reach agreement, especially on national issues. I'll come to that later. So let me put some thoughts on the political content of our project, on the ideological proposal behind the budget figures, on the social interest that his words invest in. Two are the characteristics of the 2020 budget. Firstly, it combines social care with growth and this serves by correcting older injustices, but by opening up the way for new investments and new jobs. Our aim is to distribute sporadic allowances to increasingly poorer citizens to finally move on to the opposite bank, to an increasingly national income, which will be distributed fairly to all. And secondly, while it remains realistic, it is appealing with optimism to tomorrow. It does so by burdening dynamic sectors, such as green energy, the digital economy, as well as places such as education and health, where the problem is not only economic, but is structural and also functional. There are changes that, while they do not require funding, can in practice prove profitable. The budget development thread passes through each measure. By reducing the rate for businesses from 28% to 24% and the rate for dividends from 10% to 5%, it creates fertile ground for investment. By also providing a low rate for newly-born actions and a tax of only 10% and agricultural schemes, he is urging tomorrow's initiatives. The HERAKLIS project relaunches the way for financing new business initiatives. Don't worry, Mr. Tsipras. There is no possibility of using the pillow to cover the Greek State's guarantees. The Minister of Finance explained that to you. The guarantees are neither in deficit nor in debt. So don't worry about it. The HERAKLIS project will relieve banks of 40% of their red loans. What does that mean in practice? That banks will again be able to provide liquidity to all Greek companies in order to be able to support the productive company, which has not had access to bank lending. Social solidarity is the parallel priority of our 2020 strategy. Reduction of the tax rate, the import rate, to 9%, reduction of VAT on medicines in critical sectors, duty-free EUR 1,000 for every child, EUR 2 000 for every birth. But they say so, and everything that has been said before, such as the 180 million euro in nearly three hundred thousand families, exemption from the solidarity levy, award - you said nothing about it - sixty thousand widow pensions you inherited us and this government and this ministry in two months has given them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u239	We voted for that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u240	Expenditure is not done without study and is not done without responsibility for the financial balance. They will be compensated for by more revenues that development will bring, as will the realistic approach at last to tax evasion with the dynamic spread of electronic transactions. I have heard you take care of that, Mr Tsipras. It is a good measure for electronic transactions to be able at last to limit tax evasion, especially in areas such as focusing, with new objective values, by more effective control of new economic activities such as short-term leases. Social care and development are not individual or contradictory targets for the government. The first simply does not exist without the additional wealth produced by the second. The smallest ENVY relieves the wallet of millions of Greeks throughout the country. At the same time, however, combined with incentives such as the upgrading of buildings, the tax exemption on transfers changes overall the image of the real estate market. It is a measure that has a dimension and a social and developmental dimension. Mr. Tsipras, the property market increased by about 11% in 2019. This is the trend of the real estate market in the last ten years and its comparison with what has happened in Spain and the United States. These are long trends. And if the real estate market follows a similar course, that means an increase in the value of the property of each Greek household, Mr. Tsipras. So do not deceive - and I say in the Minutes - so easily the policies that today stimulate building and the purchase of real estate. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are a country with high landscaping rates and the real estate market will be the main arm of development policy for this government, not in the logic of the past "we build what we want, where we want, without rules", but an environmentally friendly development that will upgrade our building potential with new materials, environmentally friendly, a development that will bring to Greece new property owners, people who will buy real estate from abroad and invest their property in Greece. All this is positive developments and we bet and support this particular market. The reduction in the tax on dividends and businesses does not only concern large companies. It's about every Greek business. And I heard the argument that many companies are injurious. You have reached them with the four years of your policy, Mr Tsipras! You've beaten the Greek businesses! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, any reduction in tax is a company that is currently paying tax, pays dividends tax, and will take advantage of it. And business and great, small, big, medium-sized businessmen, Mr. Tsipras, have a little bit of a job wanting to raise their business. And when they're given the opportunity, they'll invest these profits back in the business. And if they take them as dividends - as many small and medium-sized businessmen do, because this is their main way of paying - then, yes, they will be taxed with 5% rather than 10%. It is a development policy, therefore, that and social policy. And the Minister of Finance spoke to you about linking tax reductions to growth. There is no question, Mr Tsipras, of this in international literature. No question, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u241	How he's not questioned!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u242	You're a small minority. You've told us many times that you're a Marxist economist. You say it and you're proud of it. You're the exception. The rule doesn't say that! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The rule says that when you reduce taxes without getting away from budgetary targets, the economy goes ahead. Perhaps in your left-hand fantasy world this is not the case. But that is the reality, and that applies to the most developed economies in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the social and development dimension, the budget has a second dimension. It is the dimension that meets the challenges of the future. And these are no more than the cyclical economy, green growth, clean energy. I have not heard many things from the opposition as a whole, all these days that the budget is being discussed. These are, however, the new fields in which all countries will be tested in the years to come. A responsible government can't frustrate the gaze from tomorrow. He must provide, he must plan and he must act. The budget shall be implemented annually by its nature. But it has a four-year orientation and for many policies it has a decade horizon. Give an example. When you plan on how electricity will be implemented in our country, his plan must be a decade's plan. And we predict that in ten years, 10% of vehicles in our country can be electrically powered without consuming conventional fuel. In the same period, and much earlier, electricity and gas transmission and distribution networks will have been separated. In particular, natural gas will be used as a bridge to the softest forms of energy, so that in this decade renewable sources exceed 60% by 2030 for the final consumption of electricity. And in this new environment the new PPC will take the lead. Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, the price of PPC's share one day before the European elections was 1,46. At the close of yesterday's day it was 4,12. It's triple the business's value! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I remind you that the company belongs to 51% of the Greek public. It's the largest Greek business. It is a pillar of development for the whole country. This company, and therefore state policy as expressed through the new national energy and climate plan, now has a clear plan for a major challenge for our country, which is not lignite decommissioning, the definitive rehabilitation of lignite by 2028 at the latest. By 2023, with the exception of Ptolemaida 5, all polluting lignite plants in our country will have been closed. And that puts us at the forefront of Europe in the transition to clean forms of energy! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The company has already developed an ambitious investment plan with the synergy of Greek and foreign capital and, of course, with partial privatisation - up to 49% - of the TEDO, so that the country can finally have a modern electrical network. I understand the reservations that may give rise to such ambitious objectives, but much more when years of hustling have occurred that have kept the country away from what is happening in the rest of the world. But they are realistic objectives, they can be achieved with good choices. Many have no cost at all. The license for wind parks lasts today from seven to ten years, for photovoltaics from four to five. This time can be shortened to twenty - four months. Cyclic economy means production, exploitation of everything, not only of gifts of nature, air, sun, but also of our garbage. A cyclical economy for our country means billions of euros in investment and tens of thousands of new jobs. The National Energy and Climate Plan provides that we can only attract to this critical development sector in a decade of investments that exceed EUR 40 billion. All this can be done, especially in the area of waste management, where in some regions the country has remained very far behind. We have the positive samples of writing in those regions that went ahead and the extremely negative samples of writing in the regions that have been stuck in past strangles, at random these have been in the hands of SYRIZA officials for the last five years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Fortunately, this has changed as well and now at least at regional level there is no alibi and no excuse for delays. We are, moreover, at the heart of Europe. A few things I have heard in the debate on the budget for the European dimension of our national policies. And this European dimension is extremely important because, just a few days ago, the European Commission presented the 'European Green Deal', the commitment, that is, the plan on how to get to so-called 'climate neutrality' by 2050. As I told you, we're ready to close our cost-effective lignite plants by 2028. Thus, we will have a very powerful weapon in our fortress, first in Europe to claim increased funding from the EUR 100 billion fund for a fair transition, which means that the entire western Macedonia and the regions of the Peloponnese will first be able to join a modern start-up environment and completely transform their productive tissue. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, every change in the country's direction also presupposes a change in the functioning of the political system. But it also presupposes a change in the way people think. The time has come, finally, to believe in our powers and above all to extend our perception beyond past myths that have held us up to now. The first myth is that it was supposedly favourable business taxation - and even by putting small and large businesses on the same fate - it favours only entrepreneurs, it does not help growth and new investment. As I told you, the truth is exactly the reverse. A year ago companies had a total tax burden of about 40%. This is now down to 28% with a view to 24%. I'm taxing income and dividends together. And why - I repeat - do we place so much emphasis on reducing tax rates? Greek companies will be able to invest more, hire more people, create more jobs. Look, gentlemen, if you insist on the absolute criminalisation of business, the businessman has two choices, or not to invest, to compromise his existing size, to try to get through as - like either trying consciously and censurely to steal the state and avoid tax. These policies have proved completely deadlocked both in Greece and abroad. The bet of tax reduction, this government will win it and win it with society ally! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, off-site and time-consuming class designations for measures such as this are the same. You insist on making a distinction between large, medium-sized, small businesses. But our aim is for small businesses to become middle-sized and then become large. Isn't that right? The country needs many innovative businesses. We do not want businesses to always stay small. We want them to grow up. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And we want them to grow up in a framework of competition, which gives young businesses, start-ups, those we reward with special tax incentives, the possibility of competing with their major rivals, their competitors on an equal footing. I now come to the second myth, the so-called superplexes. I would remind you that 11.4 billion euros were deducted from the economy during the three years 2016-2018, in addition to the commitments you agreed with the creditors, at the same time as the outstanding public debts increased by 18.1 billion euros. Indeed, in the third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum the creditors imposed on us hard austerity. You guys took that austerity and made it a Syrian superabundance. You've put more taxes than those you've been asked for! You've become memorials of memorials! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This was the accounting alchemy, which allowed you to produce surpluses, to return some in the form of Christmas allowances, but at the same time, to have leveled the middle class. What the country needs today is a surplus of investment, not a surplus of taxation, and the targeting of the budget, but also of all the policies that this government is unfolding right there, in the possibility of being able to invest in the country - whether it is Greek or foreign - to look forward to a reasonable profit and to doing its job quickly and effectively, without unnecessary bureaucracy. Just a few days ago, the Interministerial Committee approved six new investments of over EUR 1 billion and followed many more. With regard to the country's old commitments, I have every reason to optimize. I would like to remind you once again - you insist that you do not hear it - that the New Democracy election commitment was first to gain credibility and then claim a reduction in surpluses in 2021. That's what I said in an election, that's what I said from this Step as the leader of the opposition, that's what I'm doing now as Prime Minister. We will claim and achieve a reduction in surpluses in 2021. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On the argument that you were supposedly magically able to reduce the surpluses to 2.5%, the Minister of Finance replied to you, and I will repeat them because you were not in the Chamber: on 7 May you gave a mandate here and said the Step forward that it opens a special account in the General Account of the State, which will be granted EUR 5 billion in order to convince Europeans that there is money to be able to claim the reduction of surpluses, as if you did not know that any more is the cash reserve and that others are the financial objectives. Why didn't that account ever open, Mr. Tsipras? Why didn't he open up, Mr. Chakalote? Where's that account? Just to your imagination! And then you're talking about fraud! That was the greatest fraud, which was pre-election!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u243	'Cause elections were called!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u244	It was the greatest deception of all! Nothing you had agreed with anyone, and you know it very well. You know it, and you know it, and your Minister knows it. Now for the final argument that what is happening is now about yesterday, what am I supposed to say? If that were the case, gentlemen of SYRIZA, then why did the people turn your back on you? They beat you to death because you blacked them. It's about time you realized it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So let's go to the budget targets. We estimate growth to reach 2.8% at the end of 2020. This in practice means that GDP will reach EUR 200 billion, while in employment - perhaps the most critical indicator - the goal is to have a hundred thousand less unemployed next year. And that's not something we say, it's not something that this government's budget says. The specialist work organisation ‘MANPOWER’ predicts that Greece will have the highest demand for work in forty-three countries in the first quarter of 2020. In our hand is this optimistic assessment of doing so. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke earlier about the need for literally radical thinking. Anthropologist Claude Levi - Strauss said that "to come to the realm, we must put the experienced away". [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I see you know him, and I'm glad, but why is that worry? Part of our country's experience is cowardice with reforms, the acknowledgment of their crucial importance in which some have become addicted after years of seduction and populism. The major changes must therefore be instantly, but not extreme, to be announced by measure, to be established immediately, but above all to be implemented. Often the radical sectors take time to mature even in the consciousness of those in favour of whom they are doing. That is why they require a method, especially when expectations are high after four years of great disappointment. However, the important thing is that the political will should be formulated decisively and become a decisive principle. Society is more mature, more ready than many believe for major changes. It showed this and the development of electronic transactions, the shift towards recycling, the movement and the full implementation of the anti-smoking law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u245	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Respect the speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u246	Just yesterday millions of Athenians were troubled because twenty - twenty - one metro employees changed their point on the basis of the needs of their employer. Of course, you rushed to defend them. I first apologized for the suffering of our fellow citizens, but at the same time I take action to change the bad texts! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am sure that this apology can also be made a motto of resistance by the many to the arbitrary nature of the few and that it will be the starting point for greater mutual respect that will quickly be framed and with a regulation that will not prevent the free protest of some, but also defend the freedom of movement of many, as the rules of democracy demand, as the necessary mutual respect that is the core of which every organised society must be built. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Changes will soon be seen in more complex problems, in areas involving serious study, planning, maturity in implementation. So what we're saying is we're doing it. We remain faithful to the language of truth to the citizen, because the reformist impulse can at one time stumble, yes, it can be accompanied by backsliding and omissions. I will be the last to deny that there will be no mistakes in such an ambitious recovery plan in the country. I'll be the first person to hurry to cure them. But I will never offset our few minor failures, with the many and great errors of yesterday. We in five months have been detecting errors and correcting them, while you have made mistakes for five years and remain irreparable. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the budget does not hide its interest in the middle-class and the employees. I know that so far, wage earners, especially those with incomes above EUR 20,000, have not benefited so much from our policies to the extent that they might have expected. However, this changes, as a month after the month in 2020, an additional financial objective will be created. I pledge that in 2020, at last, a reduction in the solidarity levy is beginning. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I forgot, and she'd do it, but you didn't make it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, we will complete our commitment to an overall reduction in HICPIA by 30% with an additional reduction in HICPIA by 8%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But notice this in combination with new objective values, because tax justice is to pay fair HISPIA and the exact property of Mykonos. Isn't that right? And not just! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, in the last Eurogroup it was decided that the gains from holding the bonds of central banks should return to Greece without asterisks and footnotes, without preconditions. A total of EUR 5.1 billion will be supported by public funds by May 2022. These will be used exclusively to finance the development and financing of critical projects such as the North Road of Crete. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They will be used for projects such as waste management units, natural gas networks in Macedonia. But they will also be used in areas such as education and health, as well as in the financing of flagship initiatives. Within 2020, the first of the many new public-private schools will be launched. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In time - now that you're going to be creepy! - pilot cooperation between three public hospitals and the private sector will begin, according to the Swedish model. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We had said all this in the election, but you had not read our programme well. I understand why you have an inconvenience when we are just consistent in our policies. I have here a good document for you: 'We have said so, we have done so, fifty-five commitments made in the first hundred and eighty days of governance and we are moving forward'. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Give it to the Colleagues of Officerial Response to understand what the policy means. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps some may wonder, because I insist so much on the support of the middle class. I am also watching with interest and a debate about who belongs and who does not belong to it. Let me make it clear, then, a few things. When I talk about middle-class, I refer to the dynamic strata of Greek society, which is not only determined by their income, but also by their perception of life, their willingness to work and advance. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's the middle class... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] We get it. You don't belong there and you don't care about her. Don't do it too loud! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's in other words...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u247	Come on, ladies, a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u248	They are the Greeks and Greek women of the next door. They are the ones who built Greece. While joining a set, not changing to mass, separate personalities remain with individual responsibilities. They're citizens with a sense of their common destiny. They are citizens who produce, without shouting, who demand efficiency and respect for the money they pay. This middle class requires politicians not to insult not only her intelligence, but also her dignity. In other words, gentlemen of SYRIZA, to use a costume metaphor, it is all those who usually dress just, but they know and wear ties where they need to! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They're the ones you've offended for four years, not just...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u249	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Looks like you guys got out of your clothes! Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, we have serious issues to discuss. Powerful economy means strong homeland. This is particularly important in times troubled in the international environment. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I would ask for a little quiet in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u251	I, too, would ask my colleagues, particularly on the SYRIZA side. Please do not go beyond the limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u252	The strong fiscal image multiplys our country's strength on the international scene and allows for the creation of stable alliances. It makes Greece a lasting force for security and progress in the region. "The money is being broken, " Pericles pointed out about the Spartans, talking to the Church of the Municipality, just before the beginning of the Peloponnesian War, just to underline that the poor economic situation of the city prevents its armour and reduces its scope. From this point of view, a development budget, such as this year's budget, also has a national contribution dimension at a time of intense geostrategic instability, but also challenges, severe challenges from our eastern neighbours. That is why it provides for the strengthening of our Armed Forces, the upgrading of combat aircraft, the renewal of our submarine equipment and not just. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, the intensity of our diplomatic activity continues unrelenting. I said in my introduction that, during his speech, the Chief of Representation left the extreme tone, which he used when he spoke of the budget, downed the tones and spoke of the need for national unity on external issues. I fully endorse this approach. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I did not see what he said - and the heads of the other parties have said - no substantial differentiation from the government's expressed position in the way foreign policy has been conducted in recent months and weeks. I repeat our unscrupulous position. Greece remains faithful both to international law and to existing agreements. He doesn't claim anything, but he won't give anything. And her Armed Forces are at all times ready to defend national integrity and national sovereignty. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We all agree in this Chamber that we are always in favour of good neighbourly rules, for open channels, for communication, for dialogue. Never has this government thought, even at the most difficult times in recent weeks, of suspending the confidence-building measures and the debate that is taking place in this critical field, precisely because when the circumstances are difficult and the times are upset, then there must be communications channels. That is why we are also responding to the request to continue exploratory contacts, but we are not coming - and I would like to stress this, and I am sure that this view reflects the position of the entire National Representation - in this dialogue, neither pressured nor in a position of weakness, much more under the threat of illegal fraudulents. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are right, we also have confidence, we also have strong alliances, which are unresolved day after day and alliances which have been confirmed once again in the conclusions of the summit in this Chamber. Before the summit, you requested - and rightly so - that there should be an explicit condemnation from the European Union for Turkish provocation. That's exactly what we've achieved. The - within introductory - 'Memorandum of Cooperation' of Libya - Turkey is invalid. It does not produce legal effects and this is included in the official conclusions of the European Council. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And one final mention of your abhorrence, Mr. Tsipras, regarding my trip to the United States. I cannot recognise the fact that you have made a spectacular shift in the exercise of foreign policy with the United States in relation to what you have believed. You left aside the nice statements about NATO, about the imperialist Americans, and you did very well. The Communist Party has some reservations about this, but you will resolve this issue among you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u253	It's changed for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u254	Have they or haven't they changed? I say they changed and did well in this area. This means that, with the exception of the Communist Party, it is formed in this Chamber, for the first time since at least the years of post-population, a wide cross-party alliance which considers our relationship with the United States to be very deep, a strategic alliance. We have always believed that as a New Democracy, and for us it is no surprise. But, Mr Tsipras, we are not taken for granted, not for the United States, we are not taken for anyone. We are only for the Greek people and we negotiate with everyone, always in the interest of the Greek people. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because the good allies in difficulties seem. I have to repeat here that the United States Department of Foreign Affairs of the United States of Libya-Turkey Agreement has explicitly condemned the US Secretary of State as a provocative agreement, which obviously does not promote peace in the wider region. We have therefore formed a framework for cross-party consensus, which mobilises Greek diplomacy as a whole and invests simultaneously in the shielding of our country's deterrent capacity. I would like to repeat here and here in public, from the Step of the National Representation, that the door of my office is always open for any information on national issues. If there are any issues I consider to be necessary to inform the political leaders, I will do so in the right way, so that there is always complete information on issues that sometimes need not all to be discussed in public in foreign policy, as you know very well. So let us at least keep this acquis at the end of this sitting on a single national line, which must be evacuated from this Parliament without asterisks and without footnotes. Ladies and gentlemen, I close with these thoughts: we cannot afford to lose any more years. Lost years bring lost generations. So today we are taking the first decisive step, by voting on the budget for the new decade, the first budget for the third decade of the 21st century. We are starting the demanding but beautiful course towards the national objective, development for all. I do not ask you to vote in favour of the government's majority. I would ask you, however, to make a documented review of us, far from the extremes of the past. Yesterday I was in an event honoring the outgoing Vice-President of the European Central Bank, Greece's fixed friend, Benoit Kere. There were many of the protagonists of Greek adventure and they passed like a caledoscope in front of me images of a traumatic decade, from the appeals in the memorial to the tension and social division in Zapepeio, from the referendums to the pain experienced by the Greek society as a whole in all these ten years, the mountain pain of a society which managed an unprecedented crisis with unprecedented dignity. All these years the citizens have voted and voted again. They tried everyone and everything in power. They temporarily put in the House extreme political formations that came out of the margin to enter the political system and fortunately for democracy they returned to us. Myths were shattered, ideas crushed. But our country has endured, the Greeks have endured, found our way and in the hands of all of us it is never again to lose him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget for the financial year 2020 has come to an end. In addition to the six general and twelve special rapporteurs, six parliamentary representatives and two hundred colleagues, a total of two hundred and twenty-four Members. Eighteen Ministers, two Deputy Ministers and fourteen Deputy Secretarys, i.e. thirty-four members of the Government, and the six Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups. The five meetings lasted for about fifty hours. The debate on the State Budget for the financial year 2020 is then adjourned and we will proceed to the vote. The budget for the revenue and expenditure of the Presidency of the Republic and of each Ministry shall be voted on by roll-call electronic vote. As you know, all the Ministries and the Presidency of the Republic have only costs, except for the Ministry of Finance which has revenue - fortunately - with the budget. The state budget includes the budget of Parliament, which will not be taken into account again in this House, as the Parliament's budget, as approved by the House at its meeting of 14 November 2019, is mandatory to be enforced and registered unchanged in the general budget of the State on the basis of Rule 120(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, Rule 123(7), the vote on the budget for public investment and attached budgets, as well as on the budgets for the Decentralised Administrations referred to in Article 2 of the draft law, is carried out in particular and successively by an upward or upward trend. This section, in other words, will not be made electronically. I therefore propose, with your permission, that the vote be postponed, that is, that the vote on Public Investments and the Decentralised Administrations, be preceded by electronics in order to make it easier for fellow Members to do so. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u256	The House therefore agreed. The non-electronic process is therefore followed. Does the House accept the budget for public investment and attached budgets for the financial year 2020? Please, those who accept to rise. [[Receivables]] Evidently, most of them were in favour of acceptance. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The House has therefore admitted. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Does this House accept the regular budget of the Decentralised financial year 2020? Please, those who accept to rise. Evidently, most of them were in favour of acceptance. The House has therefore admitted. We shall now proceed to the roll-call electronic vote. This is where I want your attention. It's harder than the streak! [[Laughers in the Chamber]] We note that the vote includes the revenues of the budget, the expenditures of the Presidency of the Republic and the seventeen ministries, a total of nineteen fields, the revenues and eighteen fields. Each time on the screen they appear as four Ministries to vote. To vote for the rest, after you have voted the four, you need to roll the touch screen. This is for the computers known as scroll down! [[Applause and laughter in the Chamber]] Let me see those who make mistakes, if they'll applaud them later. There is the possibility of voting in favour or voting against all the Ministries' expenditure by choosing "NAH", "OH" or "APHON", which appears on the front line of the screen. Also, you can correct your vote by choosing the relevant Ministry. At the top right of the screen the number of Ministries left to vote is shown each time. You'll see, that the system makes itself the removal. What, that is, you vote will be removed and there will be the rest in front of you. Those who accept the revenues of the budget, as well as the costs of each of the Ministry and of the Presidency of the Republic, namely those who accept the nineteen fields, vote 'NAI'. Those who do not accept them vote 'HO'. Those who do not vote 'NEI' or vote 'NOI' vote 'PANI'. Three options. Make sure you have voted for all nineteen separate votes. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask my fellow Members to remain in the Chamber until the electronic voting system is closed and before they go out to make sure that they have completed the vote. I would now ask that the electronic voting system be opened. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have had fax numbers in the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which make their votes known on the budget. These votes will be recorded and taken into account in the electronic count, which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mr von Wogau on his excellent report. Konstantinos Zouraris and Sunday Malamas will not be present in today's roll-call vote and they are aware by letter of their intention to vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting but are not counted on the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u260	Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u261	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of the State Budget for the financial year 2020’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote that took place on the state budget was concluded. Please authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of the meetings of 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 December 2019, including the debate and the budget vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u263	The requested authorisation was therefore granted. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-18-S1-commons.u264	With the consent of the House at 22.38 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 19 December 2019 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
