ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House Thursday 16 May 2019 (A) and Thursday 9 May 2019 (B). Oh, I'm sorry. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 513/14-5-2019 by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgiou Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Exemption of bio-engineers in the Kilkis Prefecture". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Will the extension of line 2 of Metro to Ilion be frozen?" 3. The Question No 518/14-5-2019 by MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Problems of workers at the Centre for the Welfare of Central Macedonia". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 514/14-5-2019 by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Purchasias, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Waterlos” with Measure 11 on Organic Agriculture! In eastern Macedonia and Thrace only one hundred nineteen applications were approved!''.'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 517/14-5-2019 by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "No progress at the 12th Municipal School of Archangelos Rhodes". 3. The Question No 519/14-5-2019 by MP Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Working through a programme of OAED for the long-term unemployed 55-67 years at the University Hospital of Ioannina". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 6077/27-2-2019 by Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Evil and outlawed the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace in the appropriations for organic farming". "B" A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Ioannis Tsironis, Member of the European Parliament, addressed to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of 'Biological Markets'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Andreas Loverdos, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, referred to the following question: "The opening of nine licensed RTD professionals based in the former municipality of Henry Achaias and the inhabitants of the region". 3. Mr Nicholas Kouzilou's Question No 502/3-5-2019 topical question by MP Mr. I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The administration of the Aegean is promoting the government." B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 504/6-5-2019 by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on "Acropolis Museum Organization's application". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: “Compensation of debts to Social Security Bodies, Tax Administration and O.T.A.”. (a) Degree, pension arrangements and other insurance and pension provisions, strengthening of the protection of workers and other provisions.’ The Group of the Party of European Socialists also, by letter, defines Mr Loverdos as Parliamentary Representative Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou. Some colleagues have been left to speak since yesterday. Others are in the Chamber, others are not in the Chamber. They are not missing from the House, but there is, as you know, the Conference of Presidents for the election of the Ice Arena. I'll start with everyone you're in the Chamber. Well, don't tell me that the order isn't up, because we're going to go on with everyone you're in, so we don't waste time. Mr. Stamatis wants Mr. Theocharis to speak first, he has somewhere to go while you are first and Mr. Theocharis is third. If you would kindly give him your position with the galantomy of the Thessaloniki...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u2	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u3	All right, that's gonna be a change. The Members of Parliament have only been left to speak with Mr Mandas, and then the ministers will speak. There is a request for the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsi, to be preceded by a funeral of relatives. You should give a second answer to the rapporteurs after the Ministers. I'll give him the floor earlier to make it go. I think by 13.00 at the latest we'll have finished this bill. So we start with the change that took place. We will follow yesterday's tactics, there will be a time tolerance. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have been watching the government in a panic regime in recent days, and that is evidenced by simple evidence. You bring amendments, you bring these measures...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Maddash has doubts about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u6	Yeah, he objects to being a panic regime. Mr. Manda, under normal circumstances these philosophical measures, the sharing of your love to the people in five hundred, you would bring it here for a three-day debate. You would not bring this into the hands of the amendments, so that we can talk about them quickly, make sure that you give them the last week before the elections. That's why you're in panic. You're in panic because the Prime Minister canceled his tours. They're so well-designed that the staff planned them one day and the next the Zappeion shut down to make the announcements. By the way, Mr. Manda, where is Mr. Juliarakis? Minister, have we lost him? Do we have to take amber alert for Mr. Juliarakis? Has he disappeared? He's not in the interview, he's not here either. What does that show? Does it indicate that the government is not united in these measures? Don't you agree? Are these measures popular? You are in panic because we have been watching over the last few days that the entire government has become a commentator of Mr Mitsotakis. I wonder what SYRIZA's health program is? We have elections, European elections, and immediately after national elections. What is SYRIZA's health program? Answer: Mr. Mitsotakis will privatize her. What is SYRIZA's work program? Answer: Mr. Mitsotakis will bring seven days' work. Is that your schedule? Is that what you're suggesting to the Greek people? The last sanctuary is fear, ladies and gentlemen. And your panic is so obvious that you're trying to keep yourself in power, sowing fear to the Greek people. The Greek people, however, are not afraid. She's not afraid, because SYRIZA's program sees it in practice. Our rapporteur and Members of Parliament have submitted to you what you have been doing for seven days. The only time that was circumvented this seven-day is with the signature of the Minister, Mrs Ahtsioglou, in the federation of hoteliers with their employees in tourist enterprises and in TRAINOSE. In fact, the "TRAINOSE" was signed by a tripartite agreement within the Ministry of Labour. And the hotel staff have made this seven-day work compulsory for all employees. So your program is obvious. It is obvious that hospitals are not working. They put in. Yesterday I was in St. Dimitrios and spoke to our fellow citizens at a café. And he tells me, my child has a problem. I had an instrument not to go to the Hippocrates and go to the Laikos. Because Hippocrates is a dump and the "Lagos" was recently renovated, with a donation - not with the Greek people's money - from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. You've raised the minimum wage. And who paid him? Who paid the minimum wage increase? We were telling you to reduce contributions, not to raise the minimum wage. You were expecting, Mr. Petersburg, a 20 million increase in contributions to EVA from the minimum wage increase. What did you get February? You have received 20 million reductions according to one article. And I've asked a question and I'm still getting an answer to confirm the evidence. Four employees, i.e. they got an increase, one got fired. The employee who got fired, the unemployed, is the one paying for your policy. We have the global phenomenon of developing 1.9% and increasing unemployment. We have increased unemployment in recent months. How do you explain this, growth with an increase in unemployment? It is therefore a proposal for conciliation to try to buy out the Greek people. The Greek people, however, are not as pleasant as you would like, as you think. The Greek people are not being bought and you will see this in the polls. Why are you copying the worst post-multiple practices and the worst is the attempt to buy the world just before the elections. "Shove them all" didn't work when it happened on time, because then Andreas Papandreou and PASOK lost it. It won't work now that it's a prank and a cape. But let's go see what you brought. You brought an arrangement, which is firstly ineffective. Over 80% lost your settings. More than 80% will lose with her. You brought the 100 doses in 2015. You're now bringing us the 120 doses. We will therefore bring 140 doses, in four years we will bring 160 doses and go for 180 doses and so on. But it is necessary. And you know why it's necessary, Mr. Petropoulou? Because your extrajudicial compromise failed, as we told you when you brought it. The market for regulation is thirsty, because while you were telling us here in this House the barbaric shells - and I am sure you will tell us now - of 400,000 businesses who will find their health in the extrajudicial compromise, after all 2 000 companies have succeeded in completing the process. That's why they're waiting. A circuit has been built around the extrajudicial compromise. You have to give 2,000 euros from here, 1,500 euros from there and in one or two years they answer you. That's what I'm saying. It's of course an unfair procedure when the freelance professional takes 120 doses, and if an IKE has done, it takes 24 doses. Same free professional as IKE takes 24 doses. Lucky! It doesn't make any sense. To solve the problem, to reduce taxes, to give liquidity, and finally to make arrangements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll say a few words about VAT. It's an apologetic arrangement. You're trying to bring him to 2014. But neither did you manage to bring them to 2014. You deliver the country with 2013 wages. So, in VAT too, it's a little regulation. If you really want to bring the system back where it was in 2014, vote for the New Democracy amendment tabled by the Group. As far as pensions are concerned, you're bringing us the 13th allowance. It is an allowance and not a pension, because if it was a pension, you are obliged by the Constitution to bring a report from the Court of Auditors. You didn't bring her. So it's either unconstitutional or it's not a pension and it's an allowance. We owe retrospectively. Mr. Petropoulou, the decisions come soon and we'll owe 10 billion to the pensioners. Pensioners themselves pay this allowance. It's retired people's money. We owe them 10 billion and we give them 800 million. We have, we have eaten, we leave the bill unpaid, we give 20 euros of purbur and we leave with high-headedness, that we are galantus! This isn't a household. We had to give 1 billion for pensioners, but as the first dose for their retrospectives. That makes a good government, that makes a favored society. In fact, there is a suspicion that, while it is an allowance, you are baptizing it for a pension to throw ashes in the eyes of the Court of Auditors and cancel the retrospectives. That way, you're trying to get the money you're entitled to and make fun of retired people. This thing must be very careful about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Theochari...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u8	I'm out, Mr. President. I'm hanging up with one thing. The tax free was all you should have brought here. There's hypocrisy. You say that, as long as the SYRIZA government exists, this duty-free will not fall and yet you will not vote. One of three explanations applies. Whether the IMF is forcing you and so it is not gone, as you hypocritically tell us whether we are not out of the memos and you are not free to do what you want, as you are mocking us that we are out of the memos, whether they are in your policy and you agree with the tax reduction. There's no other explanation, and you need to tell us who it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u9	Close, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u10	I'm closed, Mr. President. I can only say that this proposal for conciliation with the Greek people will fail. Your parrots who say we're at 2% difference and that you'll win as the Prime Minister says, it's not even one in a million. They're lying. And New Democracy raises the glove. So since we are at 2%, after you win, if you lose in the European elections, get up and leave the same night. Because this government of poverty, which is disguised to a government of the poor, has only one agency to do, rise and leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Stamatis will now be given the floor. Then there will be Mr. Konsolas, Mr. Kremastinos, Mr. Georgiadis is at the Conference of Presidents and Mr. Pavlides, whom I do not see. Mr. Madda, let him know. Or he'll keep his name. I will give Mr Brutsi the floor and then you have asked for the floor. We're going in that order. Mr. Stamatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I, Mr Ministers, will be happy to begin. Of course, Mr. Chakalotos is missing, who appreciates such reports, but that's all right, you'll carry it. What's the pleasant thing? I now see on the websites that the mayors who renounce the support of your party are growing every day. That's how you get away with charging failures to some municipalities. But at the same time this is indicative of how reliable your Prime Minister's reports are when he says "we will win the election". The mayors, who are commonly called "they are kittens", have taken the message and the climate of society in time and say "the evil is untrue". And who? Top executives, two former vice-presidents of Ms. Duru. At the same time, however, this remark explains why the Prime Minister, speaking yesterday in Aegaleo, turned the elections from a referendum, from a vote of confidence in the government to a poll. What kind of a poll? The polls will be opened at national level. Now you've been baptizing a poll? Either way, baptism, polls are, they are a vote of confidence in the government and the message you get will be extremely hard and mandatory. Don't think you can ignore a result on the poll. Let's go quickly to the bill. What kind of bill is that? Studyed, he says. It has been studied and filled with Members' seat with amendments. I mean, if it wasn't designed and planned, what would happen? Would you write it here? And we're going on the point. One hundred and twenty instalments, which are not a hundred and twenty instalments, but are on a case-by-case basis, and in particular it is a regulation against companies, which had to raise the burden of an uplift of the Greek economy. That's what you're hitting for. But, tell me, have you wondered why the debt of citizens and businesses has increased towards taxes and insurance funds? How was it from 80 billion to 140? For three reasons. The first reason is why they entered the climate 'I don't pay'. I don't know, Mr. Brutsi, if you had the SYRIZA announcement the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u13	We showed her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u14	It is the time when you said "we pay nothing, neither taxes nor insurance contributions, until they fall". That is what you, ladies and gentlemen, have said, where you are going to give us seriousness lessons on policy. Only you then collected this climate. Because it is very reasonable that those who obeyed Mr Tsipras' camel and did not pay 'why should I pay'? when Mr Tsipras came, with the result that you have attempted - and that is the second reason - a regulation that you have amended four times. And what did you do? You have succeeded from a million four hundred thousands of regulation-makers to regulate only eight thousand. Great accomplishment! But the most important reason, Mr. Ministers, that you accumulate these debts, do you know who they are? That there's no money. There's no money in the public, there's no money in the business. And if this policy does not change, and if there is no investment, and if growth does not go up, which has been impaled for two years, and now is anaemic, if there is no tax reduction, if there is no improvement in the business climate, do not wait with the hundred instalments to solve the problem. We will be here again and we will be discussing new regulations again, because you cannot understand from what path we need to move to help people and businesses to be okay with their obligations. And now we go to the two new regulations, to VAT and to the thirteenth pension. You came here with pride and you were talking about the restoration, he says, of this VAT arrangement. Repeat, he says, the old levels. Why are you lying? First of all, you can't bring them back. If you return them, vote for the regulation tabled by the New Democracy that refers precisely to this issue, a full reintroduction of the regime in force in 2014. But who uploaded the VAT? Are you entitled to take it, because you bring him back, to the extent you return, to the levels of 2014? Instead of being ashamed, you come here and you're proud? And I'm going to the thirteenth retirement. This is where they laugh because, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are unfair. Why are you questioning that this is a thirteenth pension? The thirteenth pension has been repaid. Mr. Ministers, the thirteenth pension has been granted by your government in 2016 -- have you forgotten? - when Tsakalotos ran to pick them up by letter to the lenders who said "plain we do, that's a help". And that aid was much larger than the 800 million you're giving now. You packed it up then. So if anyone could baptize this aid, he would say that it is the thirteenth "al SYRIZA" pension, periodically paid. This is your pension. You are, however, giving 800 million. Yes, sir! Who? Retired people. Let's make an account to see these retired people's charges of what they've paid so far. So I'm making you an account to record it, Minister. You gave 800 million. Let's see what you've taken from the same accusations at this time. Did you or did you not receive the increased VAT on popular consumption products in four years? Most of this burden, who took it? The poorest classes, the pensioners. So put half of the 2.2 billion who were charged with their daily lives. You cut it off. And even yesterday there was a crook. I have heard you, Mr Petropoulou, defend the cut in EKT, saying that it was actually replaced by our policy. And this morning I listened to the "AND1" Minister, Mr. Tsakalotos, saying: "The cut of the CSCE was the greatest defeat we have ever had." You have to choose and agree with each other. Well, you cut off the NSA, which cost 900 million. Thirdly, the health contribution. you have cut out of the 700 million pensioners a year. And apart from the reductions of the new pensioners who reach 38% of the Katrugalos law. Aggregate these and see them. How much can you compare them to the 800 million you are giving now and do you have the enthusiasm to say that it is the tenth pension?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u15	That's what you're closing up with, Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u16	I'm hanging up. I wanted to say something they'd like.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u17	It's okay. Say it and close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u18	Listen to me. You didn't make that account and you don't want to do it. Do you know who makes him, though? He's the retired man, the citizens make him. And the message from them will get it. The preamble to your message, I said it at the beginning. It is the refusal of your own people, executives to anoint them or stand by them in the race. They know something more than you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Consola, I would ask you to give your order to Mr. Brutsi to leave, and then you are. Here comes Mr. Pavlides. Mr Kremastinos and Mr Georgiadis are at the Conference, so Mr Mantas will first rise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u20	Let Mr Consolas speak and then I, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u21	Because you told me at 11:00, that's why I mentioned it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Brutsi has asked to speak now exceptionally. Otherwise, the abbreviations of the rapporteurs will be followed by the Ministers. Here, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, two days now at the National Representation, we are discussing issues relating to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Of course, both colleagues and viewers find that we are discussing a tax bill in one in the government. He has his positives, too, Minister. But it is extremely unpleasant at this time, instead of bringing a bill with a strategic targeting strategy, in order not to distractively resolve issues that the government itself has created, it is trying at the very last hour, at the time of the European elections to ease the image of the citizens. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras, his government will not make it, because the last left mark he had through his public image in and out of Parliament has collapsed over the last period. I say this because on 26 May the citizens will give a strong answer to this attempt by the government to manipulate the citizens through treasury, through fragmentary measures, through issues that should have solved four years and not created themselves. We have also seen that Mr Tsipras has transformed the European elections into a polling problem. We had said here to the National Representation - the same thing the Prime Minister said from this moment on - that it is a vote of confidence, but recently, two days before turning this commitment into a poll. In addition, Mr Tsipras and his Government have very well integrated in his culture the cubicity and the conversion of a poll from 'no' to 'yes'. It is one of the issues he now has to deal with with his left audience. From there on, the government literally panic believes that Greeks and Greek women forget, have a selective memory. I would like to say to the Government of Mr Tsipras that the Greeks and Greek women not only do not forget, but they will also give the answer the next days that will come of the European elections, Minister. Gentlemen of the government, you announced the reduction of the tax rates you that in July 2015 from 13% converted it into 24% by making the economy uncompetitive in relation to the issues that concern tourism as well. It is a fragmentary regulation, as I said in my introduction, which does not solve problems at the moment that the tourist season has already begun and, of course, this regulation does not concern all the products of the focus. You saw yesterday, Minister, the WTO which tabled a resolution to the President of Parliament and the parties who, even now, are calling on you to understand how difficult it is to focus on a country-wide focus operation from Corfu to Kastelorizo and from Alexandroupolis to Gadus to tax the product differently, the tourist product, the focus on these businesses, but with 13% and 24% more. We are, of course, talking about coffee debris. The new categorisation of the focus on VAT rates, as it came to the House with the amendment brought by the government, is far from being categorised by the focus products that were in place in 2014. Let me remind you that your government received your VAT rate at the focus of 13%, increased it twice, one in July 2013 and one in June 2016, at 24%, why? Because, firstly, due to the disastrous negotiation of the first half of 2015, it led the country to a painful, unnecessarily memorable memorandum and, in particular, secondly, due to the fact that the SYRIZA Government has incorporated into its culture that increased taxes are the only source of revenue, wealth generation for the government, in order to make the redistribution announced at times and often by many government factors. This is how the debate on the increase in the residence tax from 6.5% to 13% began. And at this point I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to turn your memory when I tabled a timely question here in plenary - and you all remember it - to Mrs Papanatziou, which she said to us. He told us that we should be pleased that from 6.5% he went to 13% because the troika, the institutions, were pushing the government to record the stay at 24%. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the oxymogram. The New Democracy government, the Antonis Samaras government, had not been forced by creditors and institutions to increase tax rates? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would remind you, therefore, that the Antonis Samaras government has not been forced to set up the U.S. and to mortgage the real estate which you, under your signature, have suffered for ninety years. At that time, the Government of New Democracy did not reduce VAT rates on the islands, despite the pressure it had from the institutions. This abolition, Minister, bears your signature. We also had not gone ahead with the abolition of reduced VAT rates in the catering. After all, you remember very well then that during the period of New Democracy's governance we had moved to reduce the focus and had multiplied the revenues, which was recorded by the Independent Income Authority. Now what are you doing? After you lost four years and did not manage to bring VAT to the catering or where you received it in 2014, bring a fragmentary measure and bring the catering business to a dead end. After all, the government has learned to judge the numbers in fragments. Let me remind you that the new Minister of Tourism from this Step followed the premise of the previous Minister of Tourism, Mrs Koundoura, that is, of the number of visitors. Except, Minister, you know very well - and you are a market man - that the current in terms of numbers does not record the positive figure in the tourism product. The positive figure shall be recorded from revenue. And revenues are clearly from the Bank of Greece and the other independent authorities. Revenue has collapsed. Could anyone also tell me 'why the per capita expenditure per visitor is very low compared with the competitive countries?' Because it's just a very expensive country and visitors from abroad don't spend. That's the truth. For example, when the per capita expenditure in Spain is at EUR 1,100 and the per capita expenditure here in Greece is EUR 560, this must concern us. That is a reality that cannot be overcome. I would like to say another thing about this issue of the tourism product. You have now transformed the tourist product as a whole into non-competitive with overtaxation, with HICPIA, with the imposition of HICPIA and small tourist enterprises, but also with other issues relating to indirect and direct taxes, from insurance and employers' contributions. I see fellow islanders from all the wings of the House. You can get their testimonies. Should we remind you what the reason you increased VAT on the focus, but also on the other issues that you taxed tourism? And today you are tired of bringing him back to a point that, unfortunately, the damage has already been done and you have caused injuries to businesses and hotels. You've created wounds with the red loans in business. You know, what our programme is, the programme of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, and you have already understood that you are partly and partially joining this proposal. We will be positive in voting for this regulation. However, we call on you to accept the amendment we have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Consola, please complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u24	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Barka, don't be anxious. You know very well that we are not divided into issues relating to the national case called 'tax' and 'tourism'. Since you have not tabled a strategic plan for tourism and a strategic plan for taxation, now accept the amendment. Also, may I remind you, Minister, that in terms of the hundred and twenty instalments, although we believe that they are imperfect, the New Democracy will vote on them? Listen to our rapporteur and his arguments, which we all endorse.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Consola, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u26	I'm closing, Mr. President. But why don't you join the idea of incorporating tax debts into the hundred and twenty instalments into the red loans? Do it, even now, because in the next few days you will be judged and judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days, the SYRIZA Government has discovered a new flag of convenience, that our New Democracy and President want to work seven days. Let's see what environment we're talking about, what seven days of work we're talking about. Half the workers employed over 50% of contracts signed since 2015, and then they relate to flexible forms of work, Minister. Do you want to know with today's figures what workers' wages are in Greece of underemployment? Five hundred seventy-one thousand employees are paid up with wages of up to 500 euros. Six hundred and sixty-six thousand workers - the figures today - are paid up to EUR 375 and two hundred and fifty-one employees, Mr Ministers of SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, receive a uniform salary of less than EUR 250. These are today elements, Minister. Do you see any need for seven days of employment in Greece? It is clear that our President referred to a single operational contract for a new investment. He grabbed the flag - an opportunity by SYRIZA in his hopeless effort and in front of his acquainted popular collapse and his certain electoral crash, which comes in a few days' time to propaganda, slander and pervert. What kind of working environment are we talking about? We are talking about a working environment, where only one sector needs seven days' employment. And this is the area of tourism and focus. Do you know who signed the seven-day employment in this area, as our rapporteur, former Minister Brutsi, revealed? Mrs. Ahchioglu. And what came here to tell us? But it was a collective agreement, I couldn't intervene. In other words, Mrs Ahtsioglou told us that seven days are not a matter of rights, but of exchanges. That is to say, if a collective agreement is signed, seven days' work can be done. And you are a left-wing government! So there is no demand for jobs to support such propaganda. In short, Minister, it is a good story for your story, but it has no dragon. There's no dragon your story! The hundred and twenty doses will be voted on by the New Democracy. But we've been calling you all these days here that you don't include business. It's a big regulation. It does not include the productive tissue of the country. This regulation does not give small and medium-sized enterprises a chance to re-enter the game of productivity, neither with the eighteen nor with the thirty-six instalments. They wanted and waited for two years now for these enterprises to start a new start, to start, to get back into the production process, to play the game of competition, to enable the state, Minister, to collect sound taxes and to give benefits and aid. By giving benefits and aids from the surpluses of overtaxation, the extermination of giant taxes, we are doing nothing but crushing the bones of the real economy. As far as the wages that I told you before, according to the International Labour Office, ILO, 3.5%, has fallen the wages of Greek workers in 2018. Three-five percent! Negative protagonist in Europe. Do you know how much you received, Minister, in 2014 the wage situation in Greece? Increases in 2014 to 1.9%. You've downloaded the tax-free twice. This means a wage for an average worker of about EUR 750 and a pensioner. That's what you did. And you do not commit to abolishing the new tax reduction, as the New Democracy proposes. You say 'we'll see', it can reduce duty-free, we may also have new reductions in wages and pensions, so that we can finally get to the mockery of reducing VAT. The previous government fought with the institutions, with the lenders. It did not accept by any means the reduction of VAT on focusing and on tourism. He made it and went for all kinds at 14%. And you come here today with a set of rules to tell us that coffees, drinks, refreshments, that is, about 50% of the restaurant's turnover is excluded and remains at 24%, largely creating the problems of business. This is not a reduction. This is a regulation which offers nothing, neither the operation of businesses nor the creation of new jobs. In short, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA Government, you are not the government of the poor. You're just the government of poverty! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty two students and students and four educational attendants from the Glyfada Municipal School of Women and Kilkis and from the 16th Municipal School of Glyfada. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Brutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President, and your colleagues for the change of order. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of a critical bill. A lot has been said, but I am reminiscent of something that was primarily headlined in the SYRIZA Members' suggestions. In the political difference that they want to show compared to the New Democracy they put on the ground that we are two different worlds. Today I want to confirm and agree with the Members of the SYRIZA. Mr. Ministers, where you're at the government headquarters, I want you to watch me. Yeah, we're two different worlds. And we're two different worlds, because I want to put you in a fantastic scenario. Imagine, at the moment, the spokesman of the New Democracy, or the Chief of Officerial Representation, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, or, in general, the MPs who preceded me from the New Democracy by a Step by Step of Parliament, to make this solitude: to provoke the world, society, citizens and businesses not to pay the instalments either on the tax or on the insurance funds. Imagine they were told not to join the regulation of a hundred and twenty doses, and imagine telling them that once we got out of government, we'll bring a 40-dollar arrangement, so step away. Can you imagine, Mr. SYRIZA Minister, this nightmare scenario? And here he comes to answer why private debts to the insurance funds and taxes from 85 billion to 140.1 billion. The answer is simple. It was also the mixture of your budgetary policy, the extermination of taxation and the extermination of insurance contributions, but it was unfortunately also the culture that you cultivated in the world and in the society of "I don't pay". And you didn't just stand on "I don't pay", but you did something else. You have cultivated a hate and envy against the state itself. When you say "until they collapse", do you imply that who, the government or the funds break down? I guess the funds, i.e. the state. Poverty the state. So this poster in 2014, when we brought the arrangement that you did not vote on, will accompany you forever. It's your picture. It's your mirror, who you detached from outside the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance, not to pay their doses, to be inconsistent! Do you see her, Mr. Petropoulou? She's SYRIZA's poster. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we're different worlds. I agree with you. We are different worlds, because the New Democracy always places the national interest above the party. That's why we're different, because you put the party over the state, over the country. So we tell the citizens today, yes, to be consistent, to pay their taxes, to pay their insurance contributions - do you see our differences? - and get into the setting of a hundred and twenty doses, even if it's ineffective. You have heard our remarks on the issue of legal persons, which are up to eighteen instalments, and are still pending. You understand, gentlemen of SYRIZA, why are we different? Secondly, our MEP Christos Boukokouros referred to the question of the evidence raised by IINE/GSEU. Mr Petropoulou and honourable Members of the SYRIZA, the evidence set out in the IINE/GSEE report is tragic and confirm ours, what we have said. But what was it about SYRIZA? The INE/GSEE for SYRIZA was the symbol, the flag. I didn't dare come here as Minister, Samaras, the MPs, to invoke ELSTAT, which showed a divergence of unemployment from 2013 onwards, to invoke the 'ERGAN', which has shown a positive balance since 2013. You called them a modeler and you flagged and laureled the INE/GSEE. What did you do with INE/GSEE? You've had her, you've forgotten about the banner, because it's not working. But we remain firm. The figures to be invoked by someone who wants to be accurate in measuring both unemployment and the critical issues of social and social policy are, of course, both "ERGANI" and ELSTAT. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. Petropoulou, yesterday we opposed an issue. You took the floor and try to cancel what I said. I am returning to the debate on the question of extending the five-day operation of the 'PASTRATO' operation, which you have changed and made a gaze for the President of New Democracy, that it was seven days and that was very right. We reiterated the contract signed and the maturity between workers and business. We didn't report Mrs. Ahchioglu. We said "bravo" that he accepted this contract and you made the gafa and you fell in, you said about Kyriakos Mitsotakis. That's it. But then I made some sectoral contracts for TRAINOSE - Kostis Hatzidakis - on the issue of tourism, the sector, which is a seven-day job. Here I really raise my hands up. Until now I said that you have turned the Ministry of Labour into a Ministry of Alchemy with your poaching. Now I'm saying you've turned the Ministry of Labour into a seven-day working department. Look what you did: Last night at 23:30 I took into my hands the legislative changes you make, the legislative improvements. Have you seen them? You don't even look at what texts you bring to the House. Such confusion is incredible! Either you're mocking us in the face or you've completely lost any relationship with reality. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative improvements made by the government that he made last night and in particular Article 18: "The Real Estate Directorate can operate all days of the week. Her staff', 'is obliged to work overtime during the days of holidays and holidays'. Unbelievable! What are you? Inside the Ministry of Labour, do you impose seven days' work? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am tabling the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Neither mind to bring it and I want to explain, because it is another element in which we differ and shows that we are different worlds. The New Democracy does not denounce the sectoral tourism contract. The New Democracy does not denounce the sectoral convention of PASTRATO, because we recognise tourism - I come from the Cyclades, Manolis the Consolas from the Dodecanese - the need to find a solution. And there was a solution between the workers and the world of tourism, as was the 'PASTRATO'. Here I acknowledge that there must be a need for the Ministry of Labour. But we denounce you for your courage and hypocrisy. On the one hand, you are talking about neoliberal seven-day policies, and on the other hand, you are fond of back workers. That's what you are! Two-faced, hypocrites and enthusiasts!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u31	Close, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u32	I'm closing, Mr. President. There are issues that we shall be voting on, such as widow's pensions. The widow's pensions have been broken down. We criticized you. We shall vote on this. It was your policy to cut. However, it will still not have returned to the level of the 2014 widow’s pensions you received, because a new recalculation takes place. You left an answer which is due to two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners. You have not answered the questions about what you will do with these two hundred and fifty thousand pensions. You did not respond to the gafa you did as the Ministry of Labour with the information I showed, that you received sixty-seven thousand pensions, and Mrs Ahtsioglou was unrealisticly exposed, and Mr. Tsipras was telling us that you gave us four hundred thousand. You saw the evidence. You have not responded to the smuggling you made in the "ELIOS" system of smuggling and alteration in the electronic register of pending pensions, which you have altered. We have said and said in the suggestion that "ERGANI" is a valuable, innovative tool. It does not exist in Europe. You have supported it, you highlight it. We're together, but you're going to turn it into a dolphin. The provision by which you say that you will register and impose normal permits on the accounting offices and businesses within an hour or so, not to put it to the vote until the end of the procedure. If you bring it, we commit that the New Democracy will change it to its first legislative option. This converts the "ERGAN" into a dock. We have said, 'Lascism', 'demagogy', but there are limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Brutsi, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u34	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u35	You said that three times. It's the third time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u36	By the end of the procedure, the government must be in the following: first, what will you do with the New Democracy's amendment on duty? Secondly, what are you going to do with the New Democracy's amendment on VAT and the reintroduction of the entire focus where you received it in 2014? We hope that you will do so. If you don't, we'll know we'll do it the next day. VAT for the New Democracy is something that is unnegotiable and will be reduced to 13%, where you received it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Programme "The Workshop of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 11th High School of Heidari. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u39	Since, as you understand, I am prolonging the time, since you and the ministers who must speak are not in the Chamber, I give you the floor, Mr Petropoulou, even though you have exhausted your speech. Here, then, you have the floor for three minutes, to answer Mr Brutsi obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u40	Yes, Mr President, very briefly, to facilitate the debate and understanding of certain issues. Obviously trains travel seven days a week, so do ships. The chimneys have always worked - both in the previous century and now in the future - seven days a week. Apparently there are also hotels for seven days a week. That's not what we're talking about. The point is that collective agreements regulate the working time of each worker in a seven-day business operation. It wasn't the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u41	Tourism is seven days a week.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u42	Apparently it is seven days a week and I wish it was three hundred sixty - five days a year. That's what we want. However, this does not mean that the people there work three hundred sixty - five days a year and seven days a week. That's the difference, and that's the conversation we've had. Also, do not falsify logic. If a water pipe breaks into an EVA building, if the elevator breaks, if there's a damage that can't wait in working time to restore it, isn't it logical that technical services, whenever this happens, be able to do so? Shouldn't the law say that? The establishment plan of the EPC shall provide for this in general and shall, if necessary and with the approval of the Director-General responsible. Is it so hard to understand these things? Do not go back to matters that have no sense in bringing them back, at least in the way you say. Also, as regards the issues of 'ERGANI', I did not blame you because there is 'ERGANI' and 'LIOS'. I said that you're falsifying the data because you're showing a mixed pension table and a table with clean pensions and you're comparing it to tell me what's bigger. Hey, don't do that. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u43	Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. We therefore need to discuss the problem in reasonable terms, and that is the difficulty. The Chief of Officer County has used an example of a man who works seven days a week. He didn't talk about business work. And he said specifically, a woman can work seven days a week.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u45	Inside the Chamber at least not to say what we say on the channels. Mr Manda, I will give Mr Cremastino the floor because he has no other representative at the conference to return. And soon after that, you will speak, who with patience three days, I see you in your place all the time. Mr Vice-President, you have the floor, with a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the argument about how the aid will be classified, if it is an allowance, if it is a thirteenth, twelveteenth or tenth, should not be so much in the House. Because everyone knows that Christmas's gift is the thirteenth pension, Easter's tenth and everything else is aids. Now, when the aid is given six days before the elections, whatever you call it, it is a help. How the people will take that will look. But that is not the major issue. The major issue, in my opinion, is the economy. The major issue is how much this economy can afford to make this policy. Of course it is difficult for the opposition to say that the economy cannot stand five days before the elections. The problem is, however, a matter for the country. And when a problem concerns the country, I think we should remember the past. What does the past say? That we were led to the memorials - first, second, third and third - for why? Because, while everyone knew that the policy pursued by the governments was the result of the trade union pressures and of the opposition - of course, the government is responsible for it, and I will explain why - we have made subsidised policies with wages and pensions that the economy could not bear and we have led to the deadlock. No one, nor a professor of finances, as I say many times, warned the world. And within the House, the opposition said 'give more'. And when we arrived at about five and one minister said that 'if things don't happen, the funds will be destroyed', then all the people rose, all the trade unionists of all the parties and, instead of giving up the government and saying let another come forward - I'm talking about 2004 - the Minister resigned. And then what happened? Then another government came in which, instead of taking these into account, did exactly the same thing, that is, a voluntary policy. And we arrived in 2009 and 2010 - I don't remember exactly when he made the statement - which Andreas Loverdes said for word 'There is no saliva in the funds'. Then everyone froze, because then it was the end. And what happened then? Then the lenders said 'we do not lend you'. It was the debt, if I remember well 120% of GDP. Because, if they borrowed, this policy would continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u47	It was 180%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u48	I'm talking about then. Today EUROSTAT says that debt is higher than ever. It's 183%. It's the biggest. Today, however, there is no debate in the House, which has been so much done, if the debt is sustainable. Do you remember conversations? It's sustainable, it's not sustainable. Others said it was, others that it wasn't. Others were saying we had to be tied up by others not to be tied to us, etc. Today the debt has been settled. The lenders are back. They give us loans at 4% interest rates, too high. We got for Memorandums with 1% loans and now, except for the Memorandum, we get 4%. So the question is: Will there be growth? Is there going to be investments? Will there be money in the fund to say it clearly, or will we be forced again to new measures and new cuts, be it SYRIZA, whether it is a New Democracy or a PASOK? I don't know who he's gonna be. What's going to happen in this country? Shouldn't anyone be concerned about putting these things in one class? What I have to say is that the lenders paid back money. And the question is why. Because they were simply asking for the TIAD - and they had taken it - and now they have taken all the public property for a century and are in their hands to exploit it, in the good way, as the government says, in the bad way, as the Opposition says. It's always done. But the exploitation of public property is a fact. Airports don't belong to us anymore. And when we want to use them for military reasons, we need to get permission from the 'FRAPORT'. We must call on the 'FRAPORT' to use the airport. You understand what that means. You understand what the concept of 'national sovereignty' means when this data is available. That is why we should all ask together for a renegotiation of at least a few key points. And I say all together, because responsibilities are global. Other if one has a higher percentage of responsibility and another smaller. That's not our question. Our question is that we must ensure the future of the country. I'm going to say something I want to stay in the Minutes of the House. If you see how much the population is falling over time, then, after a century, which is about the end of the U.S., the Greek population will be about three million if other things do not happen. That's what we need to see, because, if that happens, there won't be three million here. There will be ten, fifteen, twenty million, but it will not be the present Greeks. That's what I want to make clear. It won't be the Greeks today. I don't know what religion they're gonna have, I don't know who they're gonna be. We will certainly not exist. But at some point these things must be discussed in the House, regardless of what one end says and what the other end says, if we all finally believe in this issue called Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u49	Finally, Mr. Mada, it's your turn. I've put you in the first place, instead of twelve, fifteen minutes, and I'm sure it'll be enough. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u50	I share the great picture that Mr Kremastinos is trying to give when we discuss critical issues in this Chamber. I'll say a few things about it. Allow me to speak to the New Democracy, in particular to Mr Brutsi. Is it ever possible for a worker in this country, someone unemployed, to believe you're charitable? It's something that can't be done. And I'll tell you one single reason for modern history. For you are the one who has put your seal within one day to cut off the basic salary and to introduce the lower racist wage for young people under the age of twenty-five. And we are - and this is a historical given - that we restored him, with an increase of 11% in basic wages and withdrew the racist underwriting. These are two historical moments recorded. There's no way anyone will forget them. We are in a landscape, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, where in a few days' time we will have the most national European elections and in a few months' time, at the end of our term, the most European national elections. Some measure them vice versa, with the prospect of increasing the bloc and expectations for a liberation process from the SYRIZA blocs and such foolish political problems. I'll explain that a little later. Today we are completing the debate on a critically positive intervention in favour of many and in favour of strengthening economic and social development. It is the last big debate we have in this House before the European elections. I want to say a few words about the European elections. The next European elections are, in my opinion, a milestone for Europe's progress in an international context - and we must take care of that and always bear in mind - of great economic, social, geopolitical and environmental instability. It is an international framework that will certainly affect Europe and our country. I note the trade war, the open front with Iran, climate change, the explosion of inequalities around the world. That's what happens on our planet. What is at stake is whether, next day, the correlations in the European Parliament will be on the side of resolving these complex problems of the planet and Europe's positive contribution to this solution, or on the side of further decomposition and the European building, and at international level, the increase in this instability, where it neglects the dark background of fascism and extreme right. I think that is the great picture, this is the international and European reality, which we must never forget because this affects decisively, I repeat, our country. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are in fact proving that we have the possibility, the financial area - the real possibility, that is to say, that we are talking about the financial area - and the financial means to make positive interventions in favour of the social majority. Whatever is said, any inaccuracies, false news, koruna and tongs of disorientation are trying - and they have been trying these days, but also by closing the debate I will mention a few - at the end of the day, with the vote of almost all the parts of the Greek Parliament, this important positive step will be guaranteed. It will be a next day better for the social majority, for the economy, for society, for growth. I do not want to go into the analysis - as it has already been done, and I think there will be another - of the arrangements and interventions that we are doing. I mean an element that I think is crucial. The arrangements that will be the law of the state tomorrow - and I am talking about the arrangements for taxation, the funds and the municipalities - will unblock millions of people on the one hand and, on the other hand, strengthen state revenues, insurance funds and municipalities at the same time. In other words, there is a dual function of these regulations, which is extremely important. That is why I am also referring to the social majority and social cohesion and economic and development. I would like to speak attributes about some inaccuracies, which I understand have been written in both the various non-documents, especially the Anti-Population Officer. I call them inaccurate, not to say worse, because I think it's actually a distortion of reality. Let me start with a few issues from the insurance system. I want to figure something out. Has something changed in the widow's pensions, so far as we're talking, in real terms? Was there a cut? Oh, no. That's the reality. So far there has been nothing, because what was envisaged as a measure we had to take at some particular moment would start to apply from now on to only five. Because as I have explained in the Civic Opposition mainly, we have a plan, we have targeted this and done a lot of concrete work to achieve it. At the end of the day, widow's pensions on average increase from EUR 428 to EUR 545, about 27%. Also children, whether they study or not, will receive these pensions. So whatever it says about it, that's reality, whether anyone understands it or not. Secondly, we are told very systematically that we are paying for what the government has created in this four-year period, this destructive SYRIZA government. Let's see a little what happens in relation to the debts in the insurance funds. Does the CRL report show that 96% of the debtors had debts before 2015? Repeat, 96% of the debts are before 2015. Did we add anything to this time? We didn't add. Any debts added? They've been added. But if you don't say that the key part, 96% is before 2015, you don't say the whole thing. You're trying to say that all the disaster took place in SYRIZA's rule. This is linked to the well-known 2014 scenario, which we would have launched at the development level, everything would be well, it would all go before it came - through democratic processes, I remind you - the governance of SYRIZA. So this is the case with the debts to the insurance funds. That's the reality. Second reality. You say straight away that with the recalculations, on the basis of the new legislative framework, based on Law No4387/2016 - Mr Brutsis said the whole lie - the new pensions of 35% will be cut off. All right, let's say extravagant, but that's got a limit. What's actually happening? Is there going to be cutbacks for some of the new pensions recalculations compared to the previous ones? Yes, there will be, especially in the tallest. However, in the average old age and disability pensions of IKA - EFF and of OSH, the figures are almost identical, i.e. EUR 728,21 to IKA - EFF with the oldest provisions of Law No.4387/2016 and EUR 722,23 with the provisions of Law No.4387/2016. There's a little difference. In IKA's disability pensions - EDF, with the oldest provisions, the average was EUR 500.81 and with the younger provisions of EUR 527.91. We did not make terrible increases, but we did not reduce, we did not add new reductions to the basic log. Let's go down. How many outstanding pensions are there? In other words, there has been a non paper of two hundred and fifty thousand. You say it, say it again, and it's not based anywhere. We, in fact, received three hundred and eighty-six thousand four hundred forty-four loose ends. Most of these were the main pensions, that is, a hundred sixty - eight thousand nine hundred twenty - two, one fifty - four thousand twenty - two subsidiary and sixty - three thousand five hundred single. We have reduced them, with regard to overdue but public and international - and I will explain that - by 71%. Within this period, from 1-1-2015 to 31-3-2019 that exist, we have repaid eight hundred six thousand six hundred six hundred sixty-six pension cases. This is the reality and do not repeat what has been written on non paper and is wrong. Check it out. I'll go down. Other things have been said. I'm going to spend some time in the field of economy. I have heard a lot about workers' income, what has happened in these years. I mean the following. He also had a discussion about the debt, just before, Mr. Kremastinos. I will agree that the country's prospects depend on what debt sustainability is. Mr Kremastinos knows very well, who just came down from the Stepma, that the figure of 182%, which is actually accurate as a percentage of GDP, comes from what we said - and we had budgeted - in the budget debate, from the security pillow we have created and is close to 31 billion. That's why there is. What are the predictions? The forecasts of the International Monetary Fund are not that 2024 will be 143% and the ESM forecasts are not that it will fall by 55 percentage points by 2060? And is it not a fact that we have a free corridor for ten to fifteen years, in which the real debate is what we will do as a state, as a Greek society, as a Greek economy in these years? However, in the period 2014-2018 the income of households' dependent labour increased by 5.9%, mainly because of the increase in employment, while per employee in the period 2017-2018 we had 2% more. That's the reality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have one more point to make - and I shall close, Mr President - in relation to investment. Because it's too big for this conversation to say, if I may, two things very quickly: There is indeed a temporary decline in the volume of investments in 2018. She has her reasons, which I do not have time to explain. But compared to 2014 they are increased by 12.3%. For 2019 - not us, international organisations - provide for an increase, more than 10% of the volume of investment. As regards foreign direct investment, they increased by 70% -78% in 2014-2018 and 10% in the first quarter of 2019, calculated on an annual basis. Of course, we have a very specific expectation of increasing investments in 2019, with large investments such as the Greek one. You know that in order to move on, the casino contest has to be finished, because that's what keeps this investment going. So we're ahead of this development. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying that the most extreme, in any case, in my opinion, of the New Democracy's intentions for new governance, as they see it and fantasize it, is Mitsotakis' intervention yesterday on the public health system. What did the man say? He said: "I would have no objection to test a large hospital in Athens to be run in partnership with the private sector..." very nice, "... a long-term contract with clear measurable results. I know that SYRIZA trolls will now come out and say that I privatize health and all this crap." He adds: 'What, for example, is bothering us instead of us buying, as a state, magnetic tomographers working with a company and buying not magnetic tomographers, but services? This structure will work for civil servants.' Very nice. So, you know what he's telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Mada, that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u52	I'll be right back, Mr. President. Do you know what Mr. Mitsotakis tells us clearly? Dissolve the National Health System. Go around the world, in whatever country in the world you want and tell me if this is not a direct shot against any possibility of people having equal and universal access to health. Other plans are made by Mr Mitsotakis, other deals are prepared by Mr Mitsotakis, except that the Greek people will not allow him. I am absolutely sure of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u53	If I did, of course, like our dear colleague, Zoe Konstantopoulou, I would reply to you, Mr Manda. I don't, because there's a complete answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting from the top Western theory is forty students and students and three teachers from the 5th Municipal School of St. Anargyra. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Pavlides, you have the floor with regard to tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u54	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I do not know what the importance of numericality, the listing of sizes, percentages and comparisons is when you are in a regime of supervision, financial adjustment and, much more so in the past, memoranda. I think it is a wrong practice and wrong approach because it shows a false picture. Even more shows a false picture of the comparison of sizes, percentages and figures when there is no financial consistency. I don't understand what it's important to drop the VAT 1% when you haven't caught the target. The economic credibility, unfortunately, is the forced path to the implementation of the country's obligations so that it does not lead to new measures and new memoranda. The implementation of the agreements is a prerequisite, together with the economic package, the catching of the objectives of the surplus and the balance of the system, the opening up of the budgetary area, the expansion of the budgetary policy and the production of another policy mix away from austerity. All this requires political planning with realistic economic policies. The assessments, the exit from the memoranda, the exit into the markets, the removal of already adopted negative measures, the adoption of permanent positive economic measures was and is a product of such design. We are talking about whether the VAT rate was reduced in 2014, when the targets were not met, which would necessarily lead to new measures and a new increase in VAT or a new increase in indirect taxes or a new increase in direct taxes. Shouldn't you, when you don't get the target, get into a rational new tax to be able to catch the new target so that you can then re-reduce? It is a vicious circle and it is foolish to talk about numbers and compare numbers, reductions and increases, before all, when there is no need to implement your budgetary consistency and to be financially credible. The experience of 2014 you know it very well, except for program objectives, except for evaluations, within memoranda. Suddenly you throw crocodile tears for retired people. Let me remind you of some laws, Law 3845/2010, Law 3863/2010, Law 3865/2010, Law 3869/2011, Law 4024/2011, Law 4046/2012 and Law 4093/2012. From 2010 to 2014 what to first? Abolition of the thirteenth and thirteenth pensions, special solidarity levy on pensioners, reduction of main and subsidiary pensions, abolition of gift benefits, zero deficit clause for subsidiary workers. Suddenly, apart from retired people, you have another category of love and sensitivity, the free professionals. Because I'm also a freelance professional to remind you of a few things. Weren't you the ones who abolished duty on the freelance professionals? Weren't you the ones who implemented the autofax for 5,000 euros insurance contributions? I remember many of my colleagues who owed more than 5,000 euros to the former TEBE, to the OAU and were afraid when they were eating a call on the car if they could find them in the computer and take them straight to the prosecutor. Or did we forget all this? Have we forgotten about the constant self-defence and the suspensions from debt taxes? Hundreds of criminal prosecutions and arrests? Who really emptied the court plaques from the self-defenses? Who gave criminal amnesty to thousands of debtors convicted by the law - the Venizelos monster - Samaras? Who abolished the permanent self-defense? Who abolished penalties for individual contribution debtors to the OAU and the EFF? How short memory, really, do you think this is the Greek people? Not to catch your deep pain for the immigrant youth. Do you really expect the young man not to migrate when seven out of ten young people were unemployed when you vote for the under-represented wage of shame for young people under twenty-five years old when the young self-employed lawyer, doctor, young scientist or young engineer had a higher contribution to the system than the old man had on the basis of before 1994 and after 1994? Was that her policy on youth and employment? This, ladies and gentlemen, you want, you do not want, is the real field of conflict. That is why you are consciously not escaping you - and you are already doing so, Mr Mitsotakis, when he has to talk about his policy too much - your deep reactionary, anti-social and anti-liberal policy which considers the tenth pension luxury, which supports the return to the Memorandum of Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Policies, which publishes over eight hours and five days of work. These are two different policies. These are two different worlds that will collide and collide in Greece and Europe. Here you will be judged, and here you will lose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u55	We will proceed as follows. The two ministers will take the floor, Mrs. Ahtsoglou and Mr. Tsakalotos, when she comes. I will then ask all the rapporteurs, except Mr Brutsi, who has done his dentistry, if they want to do so for five minutes. We are waiting for Mrs Gennamas, because we have had some information that she will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u56	Is there any other speakers left on the list?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u57	No, we finished the list. Only Mr Marios Georgiadis remains, who is at the Conference. If he comes before the bill is closed, of course, he will be given the floor. So, Mr. Ahchioglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u58	My intention was to speak after Mrs. Gennamas to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u59	Yes, Mrs. Gennamas is a leader and speaks whenever every leader comes. The order is as I told you under the Rules of Procedure of the House, and I have had enough of the speeches by colleagues ten minutes instead of five to come to the Chamber. Please, come to Stepma. Your time, because the bill is urgent, it's 12 minutes. I'll give you eighteen minutes, because I think you should answer several things that have been heard. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill that is going to give breath to more than five million fellow citizens. It is the bill for the hundred and twenty instalments, whereby millions of our fellow citizens will be definitively relieved from the burdens and debts they accumulated on one account of the drastic reduction in their incomes, especially during the crisis period, on the other, due to irrational arrangements that were mainly applicable to insurance until the reform of 2016. However, we have also discussed two extremely critical amendments, two extremely critical regulations on the reduction of VAT on fodder and on food and on the new permanent thirteenth pension, measures permanent measures which substantially enhance pensioners and households' incomes, measures which are necessary to support those who have lifted the burden of austerity, measures that are directly applicable as both the payment of the tenth pension and the reduction of VAT will take place in the next week, i.e. immediately after the adoption of the law. In the days that we are discussing here, I hear the Civic Opposition and its relevant department - unfortunately it has not been possible for this debate to be more vivid - to do everything in order not to discuss the substance of the arrangements for which this parliamentary procedure exists: from throwing the ball in the platform until they launch irresistible complaints to blur the waters. What Mr Brutsis said will not be left unanswered, I will reply today, as I have answered it in the debate on the vote of confidence, as I said on Monday. However, it should not be considered that Mr Brutsis or the officers of the Officerial Representation that this could disorientate us, Mrs Papanatsiou, Mr Petropoulos from the substance of this bill, which is, as I said, the reduction of millions of our fellow citizens from the burdens through the one hundred and twenty instalments, but also the strengthening of the large social majority through measures to reduce VAT and the new thirteenth pension. They cannot, therefore, disorientate us, nor can I imagine the Greek people, who are basically interested in the measures that are going to lighten them. Whatever impression they are trying to cultivate, they cannot disorientate us, because both the reduction in VAT is now a fact, and it will be a fact within a few hours, that is, the new tenth pension will be a fact and that is a given fact and that cannot be reduced to a minimum. And I think that this is why at the end of the day and the members of the Officerial Representation will vote in favour of these provisions, because they are also aware of the great importance for the relief of households, but also because it would be impossible to deal with the social response that their vote would have to face. But let me come to the issue that we have been concerned with in the past few days on the subject of seven days' work. A few days ago, the President of the Police Department made a clear statement at the dialectic interview, and even without pressing him, he was not asked about this matter, on a completely different matter, he was asked, on his own, and he freely talked about establishing a seven-day job. I think whoever has a clear picture and listened to him has taken his conclusions. Since then, the MPs of the Officerial Opposition have been trying with clarifications, allegedly revealing, with new statements justifying what Mr Mitsotakis said and defending him. I understand them. It is a difficult task, if it is not an impossible task, because I think that in the consciousness of the world, this political planning of Mr Mitsotakis has been recorded for the introduction of seven days' work, and it is not, moreover, the only deeply anti-State position that we have heard from the Civilian Representation Party in recent years. As soon as there were the first major reactions from Mr Mitsotakis' statement on seven days' work, the Members of the Officerial Representation rushed to say first that Mr Mitsotakis did not mean seven days' work, but he meant the seven days of business. The seven-day operation of companies, I said before, has been in place for decades in the country, or we are talking about companies that by their very nature operate seven days, such as electricity supply, for example, such as hotels, such as large factories that do not close their chips - it is a seven-day operation, it has always been that way, for decades now - and there is the possibility for other companies to operate seven days. This has already been foreseen since 1990 if I am not mistaken. This does not in any case turn the work of the workers into a seven-day period. There is no seven days' work for the workers. It does not turn the seven-day operation of enterprises into a seven-day period of work. There are shifts and the rules on working hours are normally respected. So I don't think that makes any difference, because if Mr. Mitsotakis wanted to talk about something that he already does, he wouldn't talk about anything new, he wouldn't talk about something that SYRIZA needs to adapt and he doesn't see it and he doesn't adapt. Mr Mitsotakis spoke of something new, not about something that has been in place for decades in the country, the seven-day operation of businesses. They then invoked "PAPASTRATO" and made public an operational collective agreement, even saying that I have approved seven days' work. First of all, let's make it clear - and I said it the day before - that is basically the case. The Minister doesn't approve. Neither can it be allowed nor would it ever be reasonable for the Minister or the state to approve collective labour agreements. They do not make preventive checks on the legality of collective agreements, nor do they make repressive checks on the legality of collective agreements. The parties shall be responsible for the content of collective agreements. What the state does is recommend the laws to the House and then through its audit body, the Labour Inspectorate in this regard, to check whether labour legislation is being complied with, the law. However - for the debate - regarding the company 'PASTRATO', the company itself came out and said that in its collectively operational contract - which obviously does not bear any signature of my own, I have explained that what was supported does not exist, the collective agreements are not signed by the Minister - there are seven days of operation of the company and not obviously the seven-day work of the workers. Workers will organise their work on the basis of shifts and the maintenance of labour legislation. I therefore think that this argument did not work either. Mr Brutsis then came to me the other day and mixed up a collective agreement on tourism, which I have extended. Following the reintroduction of collective agreements, we are extending sectoral collective agreements covering the conditions, i.e. 51% of workers in the industry. So Mr Brutsis then came in and mixed up a collective contract of work in the tourism that I have extended, saying that through it I have legitimized the seven-day work. I replied to him with the basic principles of Labour Law - which I think everyone knows - that the ban on seven days' work is the law of the State and even forced law, which means that the parties cannot derogate from what is laid down in the law, even if they agree to it. This means that if a collective agreement describes a term which makes things worse for workers than the terms of the law, this term is automatically void. I repeat, however, that the Minister does not exercise preventive control over the legality of collective agreements. That is not allowed, it would not be reasonable, it would not be in line with the Constitution. These are - I think - basic knowledge. For its part, the Ministry of Labour, with its audit mechanism, imposes penalties on undertakings which violate labour law. And I tabled a fine on that day to undertakings who have been engaged in seven days' work and which, incidentally, were the companies in the sector for which Mr Brutsi denounced the collective agreement. Because the EIA is currently operating and penalising businessmen with the same concepts as Mr Mitsotakis. In conclusion, of course, because I have made clear to you the basic principles, and I read the whole collective agreement between Mr Brutsis and the tourism sector, I have also noted: firstly, that the collective agreement itself expressly reiterates in Article 6 that more favourable terms of the law under the law are not affected by it - the collective agreement itself says so - and, secondly, that the collective agreement on tourism itself states that it contains a precedent that expressly provides for five-day work and the days of the weekly rest of the workers must be continuous. It is therefore not the case that the sectoral collective agreement in question has an illegal condition in relation to the infringement of the mourning. I am therefore saying again - and I am absolutely indifferently and totally indifferently, because I repeat that the Ministry of Labour does not pre-audit the legality of collective agreements, it is not the Minister's job to do so - that the term of the specific contract for hotels keeps up to five days. Mr. Brutsis spoke of smuggling that day, about hypocrisy on my behalf. I won't return those designations. I will just say that when one wants to unleash such accusations to his political opponents and use insults, even when they have chosen to deal with mild tones, he should read all the articles of a contract, consult a worker on how collective labour agreements are interpreted and sometimes discuss with any workers who sign them. We do not need to know everything, it is not bad, it is all right, but it is important to know that the interpretation of collective agreements is not what Mr Brutsis is doing very often in order to prove things that are not proved. Perhaps he eventually abolished collective agreements, precisely because he did not understand them, because the collective bargaining in the country was not active on his own. I'll be right back. The substance, ladies and gentlemen, is not how we interpreted the clarifications of Mr Mitsotakis' statements. The fact is that the New Democracy programme for labour, as well as for insurance, is deeply antisocial and this programme is confirmed, both from its realities and from its standpoint as a Dedicated Opposition. And because you're saying we misinterpreted you, were you or weren't you in the coup d'état when the minimum wage fell by 22%? Were you or weren't you in the coup d'état when the underpaid wage was introduced? Were you or weren't you in the coup d'état when collective bargaining was suspended in the country? Were you or were you not those who said that reforms were necessary to achieve economic growth in the country? Were you or weren't you in Civicism when we were negotiating hard with the lenders to restore collective agreements and say that these are left-wing ideas? So who are we wrong and who are we talking about and who are we misinterpreting? And to come to today, not only to speak of the things that have been done as government, how many and what of the charitable provisions proposed by the Ministry of Labour in the last two and a half years in Parliament has the New Democracy voted in favour? What and how many? Did you vote for the regulation on the protection of workers in contractors? Oh, no. Did you vote for the regulation to exclude from public money the continuing violations of labour law? Oh, no. Did you vote for the regulation on the protection of workers from unpaid work? Oh, no. Will you vote on the arrangement to justify the redundancies we have in this bill? Because I only hear criticism from this side of Parliament about this regulation. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] So what exactly are you telling us? That we're wrong with your charitable profile, that we misinterpret your charitable profile? You have not voted for basic charitable provisions, including the reintroduction of collective agreements, which the Ministry of Labour has brought all three and a half years to this Parliament. And then you talk about montaziers? For any legislation we bring to protect workers in this Parliament - whatever legislation - the opposition line is a verbatim repetition of BSE positions. What did BSE say about the justification for redundancies? I can hear the same from the New Democracy. What did BSE say about contractors? That's what the New Democracy says. What did BSE say about unilateral referral to arbitration? That's what the New Democracy says. What did BSE say about collective bargaining, about the overpowering of operations? That's what the New Democracy says. So what exactly is the misinterpretation here? Your problem is that your programme, like yours, has a clear sign. It's at the expense of the world of work, it's at the expense of the social majority and it's in favour of the economic elite of this place. That is the issue, and that has now been recorded in the consciousness of the world, as much as welcoming - but rhetoric at all times - attempts to defend what the President of the Officer's administration has said. But let me come to insurance. Two very important steps are being taken in the draft law to alleviate and strengthen pensioners. One is the figure of 20 instalments, by which the insured can definitively be relieved of the burdens of the past and the other relates to the thirteenth pension. I say that the insured can definitively get rid of the burdens of the past, because it has two innovative elements. Firstly, it is open to all those who owe it, that is to say, it does not have criteria to include the insured persons and, secondly, for the first time, it also provides for the haircut of basic debt, that is, the haircut of capital. In addition, this scheme enables eighty thousand of our fellow citizens, who are locked up and until yesterday could not receive a pension because of their debt to the insurance funds, their debt to be reduced, their pensions and their debt to be repaid over a period of time by means of a small withholding pension. It is a regulation which, in fact, is going to relieve too many people, who until yesterday had neither any income nor any prospect. On the other hand, the bill introduces the regulation for this new thirteenth pension to be granted to all two and a half million pensioners in the country. I repeat that it is a permanent measure, it is not a one-off payment, it is a pension added to pensioners' income and it increases it on a stable basis. I also said, for the time being, that the granting on a permanent basis of the new thirteenth pension is certainly a result of the positive course of economics, the positive course of the economy, the relocation of public finances. However, it is also the result of the very great effort we have been making since 2016 to bring the public social security system up, a system that we have received to the limits of the collapse, a deep deficit, with EUR 1 100,000,000 deficit, with four hundred thousand unpaid pensions - I will come back to this issue - and with infinite customer opaque arrangements, which could not have a clear system for what is in force in the calculation of the contributions and benefits of the insured and the pensioners. We did the insurance reform in 2016. This reform is fruitful, already the system has been transformed from deficit to surplus. Through this we have made constant arrangements for the relief of insured persons, thanks to this good operation of the system, we have protected pensions paid for 2019, despite the opposite requirements, as you know, particularly the International Monetary Fund, and today we can, thanks to this development, grant the tenth pension. In the debate we have been having in this House these days, the competent Head of State of the New Democracy directly questioned both the question of the debts of the insured and the question of the outstanding unpaid pensions that they gave us. Fortunately, he did not question the twelve horizontal cuts in pensions they made between 2010 and 2014. They didn't question them. So he talked again about poaching, extreme hypocrisy, lies, etc. So let's see the poaching. On Monday, Mr Brutsis presented a document to the House to say that I lie to us that he left us four hundred thousand unpaid pensions, because the reply of the then Minister of the Army to a relevant question concerning the outstandingities that existed in early 2015 was that these loose ends were about fifty thousand. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Let me end the argument. I would be very kind to say that the document Mr Brutsis has shown was somewhat selective, because the document itself clearly said that these unfinished 50 000 - if I am not mistaken - do not relate to all the outstanding pensions in the country, but only to the simple main pensions of the IKA. One minister, however, is not only responsible for the simple main pensions of the IKA. He is also responsible for the pensions of all the other funds - which at the time had not been integrated into one - he is also responsible for supplementary pensions, he is also responsible for the single pensions, he is responsible for the non-complete pensions, successive pensions, etc. So the document he presented here to say that he handed over fifty-five thousand outstandings, was the least selective. What's the reality? And I am presenting here in the minutes the official response of the Ministry of Labour's services to the unfinished business at the end of 2014. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Efi Ahtsoglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] At the end of 2014, the main outstanding pensions were a hundred sixty thousand five hundred fifty-one. Additional unfinished pensions were a hundred forty - two thousand five hundred fifty. The single loose ends were fifty - five thousand six hundred. We obviously also add the government's outstanding pensions to them. The whole is less than four hundred thousand. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing on several occasions by the Secretary of State at the end of the speech bell.]] Mr President, allow me. Once again, I will not return the labels of poaching, etc. I will only say one, a classic principle of Roman law, that the New Democracy is not legitimate in expressing its own immorality. But he said, Mr Brutsis and the debts of the insured, which we regulate with the hundred and twenty instalments. You said that the debt was ejected over our days because of the tax-paying law of Katrugalo. Once again one extremely selective reading of reality? The total debt of the insured persons created by the end of 2015 was EUR 30 billion. Do you know how much the new debts are? It's 1.8 billion. Since I remember math, 1.8 billion is comparatively significantly less than 30 billion. So 95% of debts and now it is about debts that were first created before 2015. These debts are set by the hundred and twenty instalments. Floods of the past are closed. And the favourable nature of this regulation cannot be called into question, and you will therefore be voting in favour of it at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that the Qualifying Opposition is trying persistently to turn attention away from the new thirteenth pension with distractions, with irresponsible accusations and sometimes with devaluation. Mr Mitsotakis insists every day - he did so in the past few days - on the new 15th pension as a European election allowance. He says it's disgusting and given to buy out pensioners. I think that there are no more insulting references to pensioners than these, because they are actually being redeemed and ignoring their needs. Its persistence, like the fact that he stated that he did not consider it possible to grant the 15th pension and would not give it, confirm the substance of their position, namely that their priorities are not the needs of the large social majority, and that is why they are not possible. And that is why, in the last few days, this mess prevails as to whether the New Democracy ultimately guarantees this new thirteenth pension that SYRIZA gives or not. One says he guarantees her, the other says no. The second one says that the first one was not at the meeting that they decided that they would finally guarantee it. Meanwhile, the first is the Vice-President of the New Democracy. And this huge confusion arises as to whether they are committed that if they ever came to governance they would maintain the thirteenth pension. I understand - and I repeat, I also told Mr Brutsi - that these days must serve this difficult task - if not impossible - to make the neoliberal programme a social and, at the same time, to make the measures to support the many people that the government brings to appear insignificant. It's an extremely difficult task. For our part, we are insisting on the substance and content. The third pension is a reality. From next week and every year it will be granted to the two and a half million pensioners who have lifted the burdens of austerity on their back. The hundred and twenty doses are real, and they lighten five million of our fellow citizens. Dismissals in the private sector from now on should be specifically justified. Distribution workers - because there are so many important provisions in this bill for huge categories of people out there that had to be regulated - in the private sector will now have a framework of protection. Young workers are no longer working for the underprivileged, and there is a Labour Inspectorate that can protect their rights. Is that enough - and I said it in the debate on the vote of confidence - to reverse the social ruin we have received? Obviously not. They are, however, big steps towards a long course of practical support for the majority of Greek society. These are great steps to strengthen the many. And there we have our gaze, and that's where we give our credentials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u61	The speaker of the Centro Association and Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Georgiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to vote on a bill, in fact, much advertised and much anticipated by the SYRIZA Government. And, indeed, it brings it on and through panic about ten days, one week before the European elections. We have a draft law which regulates debts to the state and insurance funds of people who have seen their lives, indeed, devastated and their properties shrinking and auctioning. They are people to whom the SYRIZA - ANEL Government hoped in 2015 and unfortunately this hope has never arrived and I don't see it coming to its destination. At the same time, in all these years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL we have seen and witnessed a tax-fixing and robbery raid, which has literally eliminated any wallet the taxpayer of Greece could have. So today - and it has been heard by a number of colleagues - you come here faithful to the well-known "to burn you, to grind you oil", to soften the pain of Greek citizens with a bill that, according to your logic, solves everything. In fact, however, it says, but it means more. With the power of communication, then, the government brings a draft law to regulate the hundred and twenty doses, which in fact is not a hundred and twenty. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a hundred and twenty instalments in words. And they're in the words, because for legal persons they're only eighteen out of the hundred and twenty you say, and instead of the twelve, which anyway applies to the tax system to this day. They're in the words because they're horrific. You have not predicted anything for them. Instead, you have for farmers anticipated everything. And business seeks in vain a breath of liquidity. Things are getting more difficult if we go to analyse the debts of the insurance funds, while for debts to municipalities and local authorities you are in contrast to the communication policy of mockery and you are providing a hundred instalments and not a hundred and twenty instalments. So there are no hundred and twenty doses to all, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u63	Up to a hundred 20 doses.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u64	That's right, up to a hundred twenty instalments! You say a hundred and twenty doses. You are not saying 'until'. What you baptize, however, outwards and communicate - that's what I'm saying - is the hundred and twenty doses. But it's not a hundred and twenty doses for everyone. In the regulation on insurance funds, unfortunately, things are extremely unacceptable. And I explain: The bill attempts to restore, at least as you communicate, the previous injustices of the old system. This has indeed caused great debts to the insurance funds. In other words, there is one assumption on your part that the previous system was robbing the insured and you are now coming to fix it. However, if we then read the reasons for the loss of regulation, it is surprising that if the regulation is lost, the debt will return to the previous debt. And I ask you: where is the sense of law that you have right now and you are turning it around the world? So whoever has a weakness and loses control, punishs him and returns him to the great debts of an unacceptable system, as you do? What is the law that has been acted on, that is, according to your rhetoric, and to whom is it done? For those who have trouble paying, but who do not pay, and now will they also save some interest and 100% surcharges or for those who really have a problem and can't pay? I really want you to tell me who you are mocking and punishing the government 'the first time left'. I believe that the Minister responsible and you, Minister, since you are here, must see this and correct it. There is also an inconsistency in the final dates. I cannot understand why the platform closes on 30 June and the insurance funds closes on 30 September. What prevents you both from being on 30 September, so that they have the comfort of time and those who owe the tax, and those in the insurance funds, and do not punish them and tell them that within 30 days will have to end this matter? Why don't we take it until September 30 for both of us? And we go to the infamous third pension, which the Minister for Labour yesterday in her speech, and quite rightly he said, called it a new 15th pension, quite simply because it is not a 15th pension. We all know that this is an election allowance, and that is evidenced by the fact that you give it to them for six days just before they go to the poll. Why don't you give it on the 27th and give it on the 20th? What prevented you from doing this? Why did you hurry to give it up earlier? It is a benefit of your left-wing logic, brought by your donation policy of mocking it. That's why you're setting up scales to cheat pensioners. Anyone who receives 500 euros will get 500 euros, whoever receives 1000 euros will get 300 euros. Where's the thirteenth pension? They're not all in scales. So it's not a third pension. That's your logic. This is the thirteenth pension for you. So you're going to mislead the world. This really is another allowance, which you arrogantly fly as "flying the blues". Only a few days before the polls you are taking out on benefits in order to suspend your popular catechism. You've been giving aspirin to people who've had them in the intensive for four years. Very soon, however, the masks will fall and you will get your answer both to local government and to the European elections and to the polls that will follow in the near future. As the Central Association we have said that even 1 euros can make change to the daily life of the Greek citizen, however excessive, we will support it. But under no circumstances will we baptize ham. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u65	The President of the Democratic Association, Mr Fofi Gennimata, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are only a few days before the European elections, ten days before the Greek people speak and send their own messages to the European Parliament and to the Government. Unfortunately, in this election campaign with responsibility both for SYRIZA and the New Democracy, the substance in dialogue is missing. There is no debate on the future of Europe. There is no agreement to address Turkey's challenges, which are escalating and increasing dangerously. There is no way to put forward proposals and ideas about how to deal with the slow death in the economy to which the government has condemned us with commitments to lenders, how to deal with the social inequalities that have been widened in recent years. And, of course, the spirit and style of political controversy, which this election struggle should have, is completely lacking. It is clear that both Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis are making a great effort to blur the waters, to make a fuss, so that no one can discuss even these last days, what, in fact, does mean that Greek SYRIZA and New Democracy vote in European elections, what it means, that is, the vote in Weber and in European right, and what it means to vote on the chaotic European left, and, of course, to avoid debate on the substance of their policies, which are so similar, because one applies conservative policies and the other is preparing them to hope for a few months later. I am sure, I see it in every city I go, that more and more Greek citizens turn their backs on mud, corrosion, decline and depreciation of political life. And the question that deceives every Greek and every Greek woman in attending this whole debate is ultimately who cares about this country, who cares about Greek and Greek. And I answer directly: We. We care. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] We are here for Greece, for the Greeks, for the Greek women, for the new generation, with an integrated programme for both development and social justice, the Greek plan. And we want to follow the path that the PASOK governments have been serving over the years, which have systematically improved the lives of Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that Mr Tsipras sees his percentages falling free of charge. And what's he doing? What the old-fashioned party system has done for years, what he has so much accuseed him, that is, he comes and announces election benefits, election benefits and even without real resistance and without lasting. I would like to stress here that the citizens need the last euro that this government returns to them, because it has done them a real bite. He's been taking them ten years and returning them one. So we do not close our eyes to the needs of the Greek people. But the question is. Are his problems really solved with these benefits, which are only electoral in nature and which cannot be followed up, why does it not change anything in the essence of the government's policy? I think that Greek women and Greeks do not eat spoon and all pensioners know very well that by your own measures you have taken not on the thirteenth but on the twelfth. You have been cutting them off for the past five years a pension per year. You've taken 6 billion and returned 800 million and you're trying to convince them that you're giving them a tenth-third. Well, no one is convinced. Do you think the Greek citizens don't remember that you took VAT to the focus of 13% and took him to 24%? And now does Greece have to celebrate, because after so many years you are returning to the situation where you found it? In fact, the measure you bring is a lack of. Because the retired man is going to the cafeteria to drink coffee and pay the coffee with 24% VAT. And that's half what you do. Do you really think you're giving a solution with the hundred and twenty doses the way you brought them and so much delay? I would say that the hundred and twenty doses in fact have become twenty-four and you leave out, despite the efforts we have made and the outcry in all these days, the weakest and most needy. And you do the worst, you blackmail those who are going to be retired and tell them "or you will now get crumbs to retire, to get in shape or nothing". Or crumbs or nothing. You call this social policy and justice? Is that a left policy? No one can fool with all this. I would say that, in fact, you are also causing over the citizens when you say that your policy is for the many and not for the few, not only because it is going well with the elites - it is obvious - but because your own policy and your own commitments are the ones that increase the inequalities that are kneeling the middle class and making the weaker ones even more poorer. I wonder: When do you work for the many? When you undermine investment and in this way do not create new jobs and does the unemployed, and in particular the young man, who are increasingly frustrated and leaving abroad? When do you work for the many? When you expand part-time, do you share a position in two and condemn the new generation to work for 340 euros? Did you work in favour of many when you removed the NSA from the low pensioners? Or when you turn to cemeteries, shops and small and medium-sized Greek businesses? Take a walk to the neighborhoods and see what's going on. Man doesn't enter the stores. You have deprived very important resources of social policy, and just a few days ago with your stability programme, you have committed yourself to cutting two more billion more from health and education. Do you know what you're doing? No, you are simply not working in favour of many, but you are setting the ground for the policies that Mr Mitsotakis sees. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] On the altar of overcrowding, hospitals are currently operating in "red", and you give him the push to say he'll give it all to the private sector that Thatcher didn't dare. Hands off the National Health System! We'll be here to stop you. We'll put a brake on both plans. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] The policy for many is to be able to generate growth and new quality jobs. You deprived this of the Greek people. I come, ladies and gentlemen, to the effort made by Mr Mitsotakis, to hide his true attitudes, but the more he speaks of his programme, the more the truth seems, and indeed many times also with an autogol. It reveals itself and it can't hide anything. His support for Mr Webber is nothing but, as I said before, support for the policies of extreme austerity, which has brought our country to this point and which gives an alibi across Europe for extreme right. The focus of its economic policy is that the market, if left, will solve all the problems by magic itself, but this leads to market immunity and leaves citizens and workers at their disposal. Is the new Republic being treated systematically as an enemy and is this also having drastic cuts in the welfare state that elsewhere? The continuity of SYRIZA's policy. He is obviously not interested in labour rights. They don't need, he says, protection for workers against employers. And as we have seen, Mr Mitsotakis fails to understand that new technologies can and must go hand in hand with reducing working time and improving the quality of life of workers, their families, and especially women, who seem to be finally in sight of closing them at home. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy fully adopt the SYRIZA policy for the superstition in which public property has been pledged for many years. It is unacceptable and deeply classic, and Mr Mitsotakis' view that young children, depending on their place of origin, have limited opportunities to develop and advance in this place. I want to remind him once again that the gap between the two banks of Kifissios was bridged with the PASOK policies and no one is allowed to turn us back and set limits on the dreams of young people wherever they live. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] So, in short, the Greek people have a great strength in their hands by voting in these European elections, sending a change message now, and the change message now means voting in the Change Movement. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] I should like to close by reintroducing my proposal, because I believe that we can still save the dignity of this House's politics and this House. I repeat the proposal I made last days in the last debate we had here, to vote together on measures that, in fact, help and relieve our weakest fellow citizens, the youngest people, the retired and immediately afterwards go to national elections, because the country cannot continue to live in this toxic and poisoned political climate. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] I would remind you of the proposals that we have tabled and as an amendment to our parliamentary group. Above all, the abolition of tax-free reductions, a programme of support for five years for young people starting their business with tax-free and insurance contributions, support for new couples for three years to 200 euros per month for every young child born, because it is a great problem for the country to have new unemployed in the private sector, a lower pension at EUR 500 for the individual pensioner and EUR 700 for the couple, and a refund to the tax rate of 13% for farmers and a refund of five VAT points for producers who give their products to producer groups or cooperatives, because we will also be able to reduce production costs. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] In conclusion, I would like to repeat this: we ask Greek citizens to give us strength, to overturn the great amount of the national elections that are coming, to vote in the Change Movement now. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] The Greeks know when they lived better. Older people know they lived with PASOK. The time has come for young people to live better with the Change Movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too. Mrs Ahchioglu, will you say what amendments you accept?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, may I have the floor to explain ours?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u69	Mr Balaura, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. The purpose of the amendment tabled by Mr Mandas and myself is to reward the debtors' consistency with the fulfilment of their due obligations and, after these serious interventions, after the hundred and twenty instalments. This means increasing liquidity and business and households. It is therefore an amendment that binds with the whole piece of legislation. It is very important, as I said, for both entrepreneurs and households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u71	Mrs. Ahchioglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u72	First of all, I'm tabling a piece of legislation. It's completely a matter of regulation, it's nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u73	For the amendments I will only say what we are accepting. We accept Amendment No 2158 and a special 176 for the insured persons in the OTE sector, Amendment No 2180, and Amendment No 187 for the insurance contributions of Elias, Amendment No 2184 and a specific amendment No 191 for the work of the online musicians and Amendment No 2185, and Amendment No 192, which Mr Balauras has just proposed, on the release of the booked account.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Paradise has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u75	The amendment to online musicians concerns those musicians who offer occasional services to individuals, to marriages, to baptisms, without contracts, to black money, usually and also without insurance cover. On the basis of the amendment it is subject to insurance, it will be possible for them to have the relevant cover and, of course, there will also be an income for the insurers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u76	We do not have this amendment, Mr President. When was he filed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u77	Madam Minister, have you answered this amendment? She's been filed and you've answered her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Friday, I've accepted her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Paradise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u80	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u81	Has he been distributed to this House? I would ask that it be distributed before the end of the sitting, which will have an hour before it, wait. Mr. Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I asked for the floor to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u83	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u84	These are positive amendments, not to whine now. Here you go, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, in Amendment No 2180 and in Amendment No 187 which was accepted, the firemen of Elijah have only been mistaken. There are other areas, including Arcadia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u86	Is that in the Minister's knowledge?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u87	He's in knowledge of the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u88	I would ask that, in their final wording, they be distributed to the House in any case. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u89	The first thing I want to say is that the amendment to which Mr Balaurras referred is not known. We don't know when he was filed. The second point is that during the debate in the committee I raised the issue of firefighting in its broad sense. You can't control firefighting issues and just refer to one county. Why the fires in 2007, apart from Elias, burned Messinia, Arcadia, Corinthia, Evia, half Greece. I'm from Elijah, and I'll vote for it. We will either regulate it properly and incompletely, or we will not do half the jobs. These two are my remarks, Mr President, and I would ask the relevant ministers and Mrs Ahtsioglu and Mr Tsakalotos to respond to the amendments which Mrs Gennama mentioned earlier from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u90	Sure. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, will close the meeting. On the proposals, it will, of course, take care to take a stand. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor to say something, because the Prime Minister has also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u91	I am sorry, Mr President, for the amendments that we are debating, I would like to say that we have tabled an amendment today, which at the very last minute must be accepted, so that there is no reduction in pensions for pensioners who are retired in the GAAP, OAU and EFF, when they have debts, as unfortunately provided for by the provision which is to be voted on. The amendment provides for amounts to be adjusted for OGA up to EUR 10,000 - due - and for OAUs up to 40 000, as voted in the first half of 1915, and then recovered from the first Memorandum. To restore this arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. Now the ministers are aware of it, because you just testified it. Obviously, because it also has economic data, it will be taken into account and it will be answered in this regard. Please, the President and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor for ten minutes to the end of the procedure, because I really think that today's vote on these positive measures is a historic one, I would say, at a time in the Greek Parliament, as a positive step has been taken since August, after leaving the memoranda, where in the Greek Parliament we come to discuss measures to alleviate and support the social majority, and not measures to reduce income, not measures which create conditions of cruel austerity and social plundering many times, as we used to, especially in the first four years of the memorandum. But also difficult measures we also had to bring in the first two years of 2015-2016, much less intensity. So I think it is very important that, after eight years of sacrifice for Greek citizens, it has dawned on a new era that gives a prospect of vindication to difficult sacrifices for the Greek people. Our government worked hard, so that we could get to this point and mainly worked with respect to every Greek and every Greek woman who spent the years of the crisis. Since last August, therefore, this series of legislative initiatives has been launched which gradually restores the injustices that have given birth to the memorandums, and that has also been our main objective. To reach the end of the memoranda, but with society standing up, securely and having ensured a financial area and the corresponding possibilities, so that we can move forward and move forward gradually, to alleviate burdens for many. In these nine months we restored the power of the basic principles of collective bargaining, increased the minimum wage by 11%, abolished the underprivileged wage for young people, a racist - let me say - discrimination against young people, again for a third consecutive year the amount of over-paid to many, committed and implemented the social majority support measures we announced last September at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. One by one, we voted against them here and with the participation, despite the grief and discontent and the opposition MPs who had to vote for them, even though, when we announced them, I remind you, they had won't be voted on and they will not be implemented. We have also committed ourselves and implemented the reduction of the ENPI. It has already been implemented since 2019, the citizens will see it in the coming months. It's mostly about people's homes. We have committed ourselves and implemented the reduction of insurance contributions. We have committed ourselves and implemented four and a half thousand trainee recruitments in Special Education, as well as the law on the protection of first residence. Now is the time to vote and to implement support measures announced last week, thanks rather to the possibilities offered by the over-performance of the economy and by the possibility that we now have to design safely and on the basis of our assessments, without having hands tied behind the back, under the suffocating surveillance of the lenders, as we have come out of the memorandum and can safely catch the goals, defining the way and means by which we will catch the goals to which the Greek economy has committed itself. So, first of all, we are coming today to vote and I am glad to see that all Parliament's wings vote on the favourable regulation concerning millions of fellow citizens, who expect the vast hundred and twenty instalments to regulate debts to insurance funds, taxes and local authorities, as well as the reduction of value added tax in the focus from 24% to 13% and the transfer of all food from 24% to 13%. They are measures which will have immediate effect, both on consumers, on free trade, on shoppers and on households. Since Monday, the basket of households has been greatly strengthened, as all food in the supermarkets will cost less. We also reduce the VAT on energy. As far as electricity and natural gas are concerned, from the rate of 13% today, it will go to the excessive rate of 6% and this measure applies to each household and will see it immediately, soon, each household in its budgets and at its expense, every household who pays PPC or natural gas, but also to companies that consume energy and have from the next Monday lower energy consumption costs. Of course, I left for the end a measure with a special symbolism, but also a substantial, direct influence on the pocket, but also on life, dignity, daily life for two and a half million fellow citizens, those who saw their lives change, their everyday lives change, their family budget change, because they were the first victims of the extreme cuts, the extreme financial adjustment, especially in the difficult years 2011, 2012, 2013. Of course, these people now - and I refer to our two and a half million fellow citizens - are those who see, after too many years of sacrifice, for the first time support, they see hope, they see dignity. And, of course, the performance of the thirteenth pension, with the current potential of our economy, is also a measure of substantial support, but also a measure of strong symbolism, especially for these people. The total amount available, I repeat on the basis of the possibilities we have today, will correspond to the amount of the Easter gift - the oldest - but with an upward distribution. It will, therefore, correspond to an additional full pension for the low-pensions who are also a large majority. And, of course, our commitment is that, as long as the state of the economy improves, we will be given the opportunity to increase the amount. All these measures, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat them, are permanent measures. I repeat this in order to understand and, above all, to repeat it for those who speak of tricks and election benefits. The measures to support and alleviate the many are permanent measures, because the Greek economy today gives us this possibility. It today enables us to establish them permanently and not transiently. It today enables us to integrate them into our long-term planning. However, I would like to point out this: in addition to initiatives to support the weak, in addition to initiatives to alleviate the middle-class and many, the measures we are voting on today are interventions with a pro-developmental character which help to increase consumption, which will strengthen economic activity and have a very significant and positive impact on the real economy. I am sure - I record it as a forecast, and here we will all be at the end of the year to see - that these measures, after their six-month implementation, at the end of 2019, will bring even more positive news of over-performance of the economy, even more positive news about the financial area, the margin that will be clear at the end of 2019, even more positive news and prospects for even more relief measures at the end of the year, because our economy is entering a virtuous cycle and we want this virtuous circle to be lasting. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Despite the fact that today it should be a festive sitting, of all people, because it is not many times - it is rare - that almost all the wings of the House are voting for a bill, I see that there is one - let me say this - ice cream, an embarrassment, an uncomfortable participation in the process on the part of Officerial Opposition and, in any case, an argument and a attitude which, apart from being awkward, is often contradictory as far as the arguments which are being heard are concerned. On one hand you denounce us for benefits and populism, and on the other hand you tell us that we do not give enough benefits and populism. We give half the benefits and half the populism. You'd like all of it. One thing you say to us - so at least I heard your Vice-President saying the other day - that under no circumstances can you guarantee the continuity of this permanent thirteenth pension that we are voting on, if you are elected, the other you are coming here and voting on it in Parliament, saying that it should be more than that. All right, I understand this awkwardness and I would say again well that it is not the reaction of Officer Opposition to the one he had in 2016, when we did not have the possibility of a permanent benefit, but we just came and voted from over-recruitment, to give a tenth pension, a significant aid to pensioners, not all then, but up to a pension limit. You were quick to say that we are putting the country's public finances at risk, that we are putting the country's course at risk, that we will not close assessments, that we will re-think the debate on whether we fit into the euro area. Of course, then, Mr. Shoeble undertook to do the work after you put the carpet up with the danger. Today, Mr. Webber has rushed to do the same. Fortunately - I say - you have not followed. But, in any case, you come to vote on these support measures, even with ambiguous arguments and contradictions. But that's the least. It's enough for me to come and vote, even though you don't believe them. It is enough for me to come and vote for one by one, as you have done with the measures that we have announced and voted on one by one. Although you said that we have a fourth memorandum, you voted for positive measures. That's enough for me. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is enough for me, because with what your Chief has started to say over the last few days in his interviews, by formulating your planning positions and programme, for the seven-day work, for the privatisation of health, for the abolition of allowances, he has begun to fear you, not ours, but many, because ours is the least. I know you disagree. I know that you would like the financial area, the one who has labored and sweated, but also the household management that has made the government's financial staff over the years, to be covered by tax reliefs to the great wealth, mostly by gifts to the oligarchy. Unfortunately, however, for you, it will be given - and as long as we are here it will be given - in full to cover some of the needs of the many. This is the big programmatic difference that we have. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because we have a plan, we care for the people who paid the marble of your own choices in the destructive five years 2010-2014. We will continue with even greater determination to organise the next day of the country after the dramatic experience of the memorial tombs that we have lived for eight years, with the aim of restoring injustices, in order to heal the wounds of the crisis, because we know that they have not yet healed, in order to give a view again to the vast majority of the Greek people who have the right to raise their head again. That's our vision. We call it a vision for Greece of many, so we will continue for 2019, with the measures we are voting on today, the hundred and twenty instalments, the reduction of VAT on focus, on food, on electricity, on natural gas, with the thirteenth pension, but also on 2020. I would like to remind you that we have the possibility now on the basis of, not of a future negotiation that we are going to make, not of an exchange of horrendous social pluralism measures, so that some will give us smaller surpluses, but on the basis of the labour and sacrifices, so that we have the liquidity we have in the public funds to implement a policy to alleviate burdens and to support the social majority that will enable us to make more financially available, more than 1,2 billion, which we are now legislating for 2019 and transferring in 2020 an additional 1.3 billion, which we announced for 2020, and which relates to the reduction of taxation, the abolition of the solidarity levy for incomes of up to 20,000 euros and a drastic reduction in total incomes, the additional surplus in investments, so that we have more investment, the insurance contributions for the recruitment of new workers, the further reduction of VAT rates, tax concessions for our islands, the further reduction of the cost of heating on lands, and the reduction of land tax on lands. All these measures, ladies and gentlemen, are fair measures, are necessary. They're acts of action. I repeat, they are permanent support measures for the many and for a Greece which, after so many years, is changing and leaves, we believe, definitively behind the black days of crisis and austerity. I would therefore like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that I am delighted that, in spite of the contradictions, the opposition is voting for one of these measures by drinking a bitter glass. I wish you, ladies and gentlemen, and during the next four years you will be here, so that, despite your disagreements, you will vote for measures to alleviate the many of the people that the SYRIZA Government will bring.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u94	Before closing the meeting, Mr Chakalotos asked for the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, as a parliamentary representative I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u96	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Kutsuko, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u98	Excuse me, Mr. Dendia. Mr President, before you went to Stepma, we agreed with Mr Kaklamani that the rapporteurs of the parties will be seconded. We gave Mr Brutsi the right, because he had an obligation. One rapporteur has been second-guessed and the others remain. The sitting, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, closes with the rapporteurs' seconds, as you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u99	Which rapporteur wants the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u100	Not for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u101	For three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u102	The suspect. For five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u103	It won't be an extra meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u104	It's our dentistry. At least for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u105	In any case, there will be a tolerance for the meeting to close properly and the Minister for Finance will take all your contributions into account. There is no point in the procedure. Should we ruin it now? Three days we have been discussing this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u106	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u107	There's nothing else, Mr. Georgiadis. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u108	The President of the Centroon Union has asked to take the floor, and you said he would not receive it. I'd just like to know why the president won't come and talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u109	I'm so sorry. This is not the case, and you are well aware of it. You know very well that there was a series in the process to close, as we close. That can't change.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, no one was informed. It was felt that the Presidents of the parliamentary groups would not speak and suddenly spoke today from both KINAL and the Prime Minister, which we did not know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u111	They've both been up to speed since this morning. And Mrs. Gennamas and Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, no one was informed this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u113	The meeting can't be late beyond 14:00. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u114	We've got an hour ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u115	We don't have it. We have the minister who closes, Mr. Georgiadis. We don't have any leaders who, at 14:00, or 13:00, think about getting inside the room. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u116	I just want it to be heard that the President of the parliamentary group has asked for the floor and is deprived of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u117	Let me hear that, too. It's okay. I've answered your question. You're welcome, Mr. Dendia. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had the pleasant surprise just now of having in the Chamber and hearing the Prime Minister of the country, and indeed of expressing our wish to us, the New Democracy, that we will be here again, showing the seat. I imagine he meant we'd be in Anti-Policy. I guess that was his thought. Of course, you know well that the change that will take place, ladies and gentlemen, will be in these chairs. We, of course, will always, as a parliamentary group, be sitting on these benches, but immediately after the elections, we will also be sitting on these benches. There will be the changes in the Chamber. The truth is that the Prime Minister made an honest effort - and it is always pleasant to hear him - to present that the measures currently being discussed by the National Representation are the result of a comprehensive planning, which he has conceived with his Government and implemented immediately after his departure from the Memorandums in August. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me. We must be honest with each other and with each other, because we are all suspicious. Have you ever seen any pre-drafted measures which will be announced with an extraordinary press conference by the Prime Minister and which will partly appear in the National Representation with one piece of legislation, that for the hundred and twenty instalments, and in part with amendments, which will be brought up after each other? Is there a more celebrity event of panic, ladies and gentlemen, than the way you legislate today? Seriously, do you expect the last Greek to believe that what is being discussed today is the result of long-term planning and not of your panic, in view of the upcoming defeat in the European elections, after a few days? What if he had any doubt about this, ladies and gentlemen, would he not be persuaded by the change of attitude of the Prime Minister? You remember that from this seat, the Prime Minister addressed us. We are sympathetic to Mr Tsipras and he speaks with us - because we cannot answer - when he expresses his thought. It's very pleasant. So he told us that these European elections are a vote of confidence in him. And before glutton spoke, after two or three days, it turned it and the "vote of confidence", it made it a "population". What other festive confession did you expect? It has come here today exceptionally to support the measures itself. What measures? Columbia meters, so we don't get fooled. What is your order to reduce VAT, which the Prime Minister said is a development measure? The Samara Government's provision is reduced, which you had abolished. Yes or no? Will the pensioner who goes to drink the coffee pay less VAT, ladies and gentlemen, or the same VAT? He'll pay the same VAT. Should he also order cheese pie or biscuits to understand the generosity of the government? Because your generosity from coffee is not going to understand it. What is alleged as the thirteenth pension, ladies and gentlemen, is it really a thirteenth pension, or is it this new speak of SYRIZA, which baptizes things otherwise, can, in the new packaging, sell them - in some way - to the very least unsuspected in Greek society? Overall, the thirteenth pension would be costing EUR 2.2 billion. The measure you bring is costing about 1/3, perhaps less. What thirteenth pension? Obviously, this is an election allowance. Of course, we will vote for it, we do nothing to do with it, because we are concerned about society, the relief of the last Greek, even if at a minimum. But the "job" doesn't pick it up. If you are kind, if you really are so merciful and so generous, we have tabled two amendments, we of the New Democracy. One amendment on VAT, which recommends the reintroduction of the Samara government regulation, and the second one on not reducing duty. Vote on them if you really want to favour society. Do not commit, as the Prime Minister has promised, to what I have said before the so-called good and so-called evil game, as if all the good people who love the workers, who want to give them money, who want to give them benefits, on the other hand, are allegedly sitting all the bad people who do not want to help the workers, do not want to give pensions, do not want to provide benefits. Instead, they want to get everything back because they're bad people, while in SYRIZA, they're all good people together. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as I am concerned, what the Prime Minister said about health was fortunately not extended, I must say. I've been waiting a lot worse. There was an approach to say something in the election. We in health, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a comprehensive programme. It's been all written for months. I put it in the Minutes for constant reminder, because - you know - the repetition is a mother of all learning. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our programme must have been submitted three or four times here. The Prime Minister insists on privatization and everything that suits him. The attempt of the Chief of Anti-Population to deal with the malfunctions of the system calls them a "excitement" in the private sector. Of course, there must always be evil, the word 'extract', the word 'complexity', something bad must give us. And as far as we are concerned, if you have the kindness, again on seven days' work, now really, have not been answered enough? So, do we have to get back to this? Seriously, do you think anyone will believe that anyone in this place, how much more than the Chief of Anti-Population, is in favour of workers' seven-day work? Are you serious? Do you want us to believe this and you want us to respond seriously, in addition to the documents submitted by our rapporteur, which demonstrate your controversial attitude to the phenomenon of extending working time? Or do you object to the seven-day operation of business? But you don't. Of course, you haven't proved yourself. Hotel businesses in the country operate seven days. This does not mean that workers work for seven days. Can we be a little serious at this last stage of dialogue in the face of the European elections? And if you'll excuse me, I'll tell you one more thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u119	Please, shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I shall conclude. I really think we have European elections in front of us. Isn't that right? The country's prime minister went up about twenty minutes and spoke. Are you telling me what he said about the European elections? Are you telling me what the element of his speech on the European perspective of the country was? Our role in European integration? The crisis of the institutions in the European Union? You haven't even told us which team you belong to. You have not even told us what programme you are supporting. You haven't even told us which authorities you sign up to. You haven't even told us what a stand you will take. Your effort is not serious. It's only an attempt to float politically. But I am telling you, with all certainty, that on the next day of the European elections you will come back here again. And then don't tell us about the poll. The declaration of confidence shall apply and shall apply. Greek society is called upon in the European elections, beyond the European risk, to deplore your government, your events, your role in the European process. And if he disapproves you, come here to submit your resignation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Vardakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u122	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Kegeroglu, we're not going to circle parliamentarians. Besides, Mrs. Gennamas has spoken. She was your Chief here and she spoke. It will not be a circle because they will seek the floor, reasonably and fairly, representatives from all the parties, in addition to the circle of rapporteurs accepted, as before. I would ask you to consult with Mr Koutsouko to give him some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u124	One and a half minutes, Mr President, I would like to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u125	You realize you're having trouble with the process. If it's just for a minute, we might do it, but exceptionally, with the permission of this House. Here you go, Mr. Vardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. The first rapporteur spoke nine minutes. I don't have to talk for nine minutes. Clearly, I understand the pressure of time. Ladies and gentlemen, I am really sorry because you have been given another chance with this bill to recognise your mistakes. You're voting for the bill, but you tried to degrade it. That's all you can explain. And the crime of all is that you tried to deceive a bill of intellect, a draft law that lifts injustices and wrong policies that you have implemented in previous years. "The Greek people", "The Greek people", "The Greek people"! Those Members of the opposition spoke to the prologue or their choice of the Greek people. Really? Now you remember the Greek people? Where are you ten years, where was this poor people watching? This poor people were trying to get out of the deadlocks you created. "You took ten and gave one." You're all saying that. Very briefly, the Opposition. But you said it ten months ago, you said it six months ago, you said it four months ago, you said it two months ago, you said it yesterday. Well, in New Democracy, don't you have a mathematician to measure the positive measures? I really think that you've been left to the memorable 0+0=14. They are references that truly remain historical and, if you like, reflect our political identity. Aren't you the ones who said social inequalities were natural? Aren't you the ones who've done an occupation of lawlessness, complication, corruption? Aren't you the ones who called the weight, Gerun, strong? Aren't you, Mr. Mitsotakis, speaking by mouth, 'the conduct of collective agreements'? Aren't you the ones who called the thirteenth pension the day before the election inappropriately unnecessarily unsatisfactory benefits? Aren't you the one who, in your programme a year ago, had private insurance fronts and now you're provoking private health? Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know, do you think the Greek people aren't seeing us when we're talking from this Step? Otherwise, there's no justification for your nerve. Do you think lying and misinformation is good for you? I want to challenge you and invite you. Let's go out to society together, tell the retired people what you've been saying for three days. That SYRIZA cut the pensions 17 times. Come along and tell the workers that SYRIZA reduced the minimum wage and legislated the underpaid wage. Come along and tell farmers and farmers that SYRIZA has closed their only sack, the Agricultural Bank, and has charged them with debts and red loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u127	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u128	Come along and tell the two and a half million uninsured that they had insurance before 2016. Come on, get out to society and tell the world that SYRIZA has created armies of unemployed, with unemployment at 27%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u129	Please close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u130	Go out into the world, say that SYRIZA has closed down the OEC, the Labour House, unique utilities. Go out, in society to say that SYRIZA was the reason why the Greek people had lost 25% of GDP and the public debt had been launched. Go out and tell the Cretans that SYRIZA was responsible until 2015, which no infrastructure project proceeded. Go out and say that SYRIZA charged the Greek people with sea-loving canals, sea-loving 400 million to the New Democracy and PASOK parties. You go out and tell the mayors of your regions that SYRIZA cut 40% to 50% of funding, decommissioning local government. And by the way, ask them about "Philodimo" and "AXIA".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Vardakis, you're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u132	Go out and tell the Greek people that Mandelis, Tsukatos, Chohatzopoulos, Papantoniou, Christoforikos and so many others were partners of SYRIZA. Go out and tell the Greek people that SYRIZA in 2010 put the country in the Memorandums and the International Monetary Fund. Go out and say that by 2015 the country had a metallurgical growth, the people prospered and in three years SYRIZA went bankrupt the country and impoverished the Greek people. Go out and tell society SYRIZA went bankrupt and created a billion-dollar deficit in the insurance funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Vardakis, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u134	Go to the workplaces, to the construction sites, tell the workers that SYRIZA abolished the collective agreements and finally go out and tell the Greek people that SYRIZA created the prospects for corruption and the interaction with "NOVARTIS" in the CEDEFOP drug. Go out and tell society that Tsipras was getting gifts from "SIEMENS". Get out to the new generation, to our children, to say that SYRIZA has envisioned and established flexible forms of employment, the two hours, the three hours, the rotation...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u136	I'm closed, Mr. President. I don't know what else you had to do to bankrupt the country and abolish any concept of law. I wish you good patience too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u137	Thank you. He's gonna need us, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I have talked for five minutes. The other parliamentary representative spoke with nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u139	All right, all right, just five - five, increasing time. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u140	They have a lot of nerve, Mr President, some who forget where they were at the time, which we 'we're destroying the place and where they were feeding at that time. I'm overdoing it now, so we can get real. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras said earlier that we are dealing with ice cream - he says - and we are indisputable in voting on these provisions. We have said from the outset that we, even a euro, should take the poor and the helpless, who need it, even a little bit of hope to open up in his despair the small and medium-sized professional, the unemployed will be positive. This does not mean, under any circumstances, that what you are doing is part of a strategy that is coming to correct what you have done since 2015. You are far below, and I will mention two three examples, in redressing the damage, which you have done since 2015. To talk about what happened from the time of crisis, from 2008 to 2010, that we entered the memorials and from 2010 to 2014, to speak whenever you want each one to assume his responsibilities, where he was, where he rocked and why the country stayed ten years in the memoranda. But now we are talking about the government and you cannot tell us that you are restoring the injustices when you are not even restoring those which you have caused. So you are few, ignorant and lacking, inferior to the circumstances and needs of the country. You do not reply to our amendment, the one Mrs Gennimata said earlier, what is going to happen with the tax. You do not answer whether we are going to motivate young people, who open up jobs, to recruit young people to businesses, to lower pensions, to EUR 500 and to EUR 700, which we are saying. Something got stuck in an interview, Mr. Chakalotos. I don't know, he can tell us later. You are not responding to the reduction of taxation on farmers. You are not answering why, while arguing that you have taken from the middle-class to redistribution, you are not returning them because the rates of taxation remain high and, in particular, the indirect taxes remain. You do not respond to society's demand for the hundred and twenty doses, and what we have told you, the very simple things to do, get the backup companies out of the capital companies, get into the hundred and twenty instalments. It's a falsification of the bill. There are no hundred and twenty doses. There's only twenty-four. Improve employers' contributions in the regulation, which are bankrupt. Put all the firefighters on, I said it in my intervention. Reply why the delays in 2015-2019 increased by 55 billion, and in any case, reconcile with the truth. This is a 40% increase, Mr. Mada, it's not 4%, you were saying. Make an account. It's just arithmetic. In any case, Mrs Ahtsoglou, you who are trying to be mild and consensual: I tabled the tables of the AIA, showing the reduction of the pensioners' income by two thousand and fifty-one euros, period 2014-2017. Give me an answer. Is the ADP wrong? Mr. Chakalotus next to you is. Tell us they did the wrong analysis, they haven't counted it all. So, Mrs. Gennamas made a modest estimate of you getting 6 billion. It comes out of 6 billion if we multiply the loss of 2000 euros, with the years you are running, if we sum up how much you received from increasing health care, drug assistance and the abolition of the CSCE. Do as you want the bill, but you got over 6 billion and you'll return 800 million. Anyway, get the VAT back where you found him. We didn't think you'd take him down. Is the retired man's coffee going to be at 24%? Isn't that a brave arrangement to recognize it and that you need to do it now with a legislative improvement? You have the time. Even now, amendments are being tabled, Mr President. To finish, because I want to be consistent in time and within the subject, I want to say this. In your bill you have at least two provisions, which refer to workers' seven-day work. Stop this Fake Controversy with the New Democracy. In the evening and in the evening, the PASOK enacted them and they apply. The seven-day operation of enterprises is also a necessity. To be honest at least, reinstate collective agreements for lower wages. Stop saying you're finishing austerity. If you were finishing the austerity, you wouldn't have had 31 billion billion in reserve. Where did these 31 billion stock come from? It's the money that you went and now you're making bail to tell us that you're changing the model of austerity, as Mr. Chakalotos explained to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u141	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u142	So, Mr President, the regulation of the bill is less than the circumstances, it is incomplete, it is not complete. However, as I have said, we will vote on it, because even one can benefit from a regulation, and we want this to be done and we do not want anyone to say that we prevented it. Besides, what Mrs Gennamas said about the people's crisis on May 26th, we will be here at 27 to discuss them and see what role each will have for the next day. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u143	Thank you. And here we are at 27.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u145	Here you go, Mrs. Ahchioglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u146	Did you forget me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u147	Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u148	Wait a minute, the Minister is asking why not to answer. Don't be in a hurry. On one amendment, it seeks to be put to the attention of you, Mrs Lymmerakis, and you and Mr Katsotis. You're in line, you're all gonna talk. Not to say, however, then that there will be no response. Mrs. Ahchioglu, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u149	We accept Amendment No 2187 and a special 194 tabled by the Members and others. Refreshment, Thelerite and Circa. It concerns legal representatives in the elections and gives them the possibility, as has been requested other times, of lawyers, graduates in law being able to be legal representatives even if they are not registered in the registers of the first instance, if I have understood well. If the congressman wants to fill in, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u150	Say, Mr. Psychoyer, to clarify it, because it's the last minute. Tell it to be clear in this House. It is self-evident, but for it to be clear, about the legal representatives and their wages.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. As the Minister has said, this is an amendment concerning the legal representatives and extends, as we have covered the needs of the first instance, the possibility of judicial officers, as they have requested, to go as judges and, of course, to graduates in law, who are civil servants and have sworn to serve the elections that are coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u152	This has been publicly announced. Of course, they are now coming too late. It's just on the edge of self-evident. Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I would like to speak for one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u154	Do you want anything else? Wait a minute, Mr. Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u155	Thank you. Because the Members of the Change Movement are not here for their amendment on the settlement of debts and I need to answer them I think they are. When planning a debt arrangement - I say this in advance - we must keep a balance between the possibility that we give people to get rid of their burdens, but also of not cultivating a culture of non-payment to the insurance funds. In other words, it is not the impression that an insured person may have been insured for years, that he will not pay anything and at the end he will be retired, because there will be a regulation that will favour him. We have to keep that balance. Secondly, I should like to point out that I do not know whether this has been understood - on the basis of what I read in the explanatory statement, it seems that this has been misinterpreted - that all the debtors for the insurance funds, all the debtors, can be subjected to the rules on debts. Even if I owe 80,000 euros, I am normally in debt regulation. The regulation we will shortly be voting on provides for a basic debt haircut and a surcharge haircut. I have said that in the medium term this entails an approximate 65% reduction in the debt. The limits currently exist under the law by which one can get a pension, that is to say, there are certain limits of debt which cannot be exceeded by an insured person to be able to receive a pension, are 20,000 to the OAED. If I'm not mistaken, that's what you're asking, that 20,000 should be $40,000, that's going to double the limit. But be careful. Based on the debt regulation that we, which I have told you, have a 65% haircut, this means that people with debts of up to 60 000, once they are regulated - if it is cut by 65% - fall below the 20,000 limit, which is what one must keep to receive a pension. I repeat that a man will also be able to pay less than EUR 20,000, so he will be able to receive a pension. So, given the haircut we're doing, the real limit no longer should you take it at 20,000, but take into account the haircut we make. So the real limit that one goes beyond the county is 60,000, since we do this haircut I described you. To find someone owes more than 60,000 to an insurance fund, it means that he will have to pay no contributions for about fifteen years. You realise that we cannot go any further than this, because then we have a feeling that an insured person can no longer pay contributions for all the years of his life and create a pension right. This can't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Minister. Explanations have been given. I think it is a debate on a crucial issue that will concern us in the post-planning process to see how the realities will be formulated, who will enter, to what extent, etc. Please, Mr Shahinides, have the floor for three minutes with a flexibility, just like the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. The only thing that is certain and undeniable is that it is a pre-election service. In fact, our impression as Golden Dawn is that all the previous ones who denounced forgot in 1989, during an election period of Andreas Papandreou, "Tsovola, give it all". New Democracy forgot in January 2015, which, two days before the elections, started paying farmers compensation for the Russian embargo, and even on Sunday, were putting money on farmers. All this proves once again that you are indeed one and the same. However, it has not been mentioned by anyone that your Government's Minister for Finance, Mr Juliarakis, was opposed to this package of measures. I am referring to this, because, as far as this package is concerned, the financial area that exists is much smaller than the measures that you will provide as a permanent one or as benefits. There is a deficit of 700 million. After all, it is no accident that international publications are just referring to it, with the risk of losing funds that will be disbursed by European banks. I would, however, like to draw a little attention to all of you, because it was previously said by the previous speakers about the sensitivity to the Greek people and what they have all done and what they are all responsible for. So give a basis on some dates. I will specifically refer to those who have been from 2004 until now and there is a good reason: from 2004 to 2009, Karamanlis, keep it. From 2009 to 2011, George Papandreou. From November 11, 2011 to May 16, 2012, where elections took place, appointed government Luke Papademos. From May 16, 2012 to June 20, 2012, service government Panagiotis Pikrammenos and followed by Samaras - Venizelos. What happened in the time in question when the government of Luke Papademou and the service government of Mr Panagiotis Pikrammenos existed? Starting with the first to mention Mr Karamanlis in the FEK with a sheet number of 250, 9 December 2008, he refers to the bonds issued at the time in the banks, the 23 billion. Here it is stated in Article 5 of the GBER that: ‘The credit institutions to which the securities of the Greek State are made available under Article 3 of this article must use the product of the liquidation of securities for residential loans and for small and medium-sized enterprises on competitive terms’, which the banks have not done. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So what's going on here? We have the case of embezzlement. These bonds, which were a loan granted by the Greek State to the banks, expired in March 2012, the very period when we had the appointed governments, Mr. Pikrammenos's official government, which was for a month for the election period and Mr. Papademos' appointed government. What happened? Public debt issue number 66, July 2012, is the quarter where the 23 billion banks were not repaid as they had to pay off against the Greek State and entered the Greek public debt. Here the evidence tells us that on March 31, the Greek foreign debt was 280 billion and in three months the debts 303, confirmed the bank's 23 billion as debt to the Greek State. None of the so-called constitutional arch parties denounced that. That is the audit we said we would do as Golden Dawn in relation to the debt that has arisen. This money, the 23 billion that has been established in public debt, cannot be raised at any rate more than 40%, but I see that you are all silent on you. Be quiet, because you have nothing to say, of course. No one was mentioned, no one had informed the Greek people. For all that was stolen from him, literally and not in quotes, all the previous governments with the memoranda that no one has voted for, but no one is cut for the Greek people. You're exactly the same. That will only change if we come to the government and to things, because we do not promise the Greek people at all, except one thing: prison thieves and stolen to the people!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u158	As far as the procedure is concerned - because I have already made a few points to various colleagues to sit down and stay out of the Chamber - then Mr Katsotis, Mrs Liberaki, will speak and the Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, will close the meeting. Mr Kegeroglu will take the floor for a minute whenever he wants among the speakers, as we have promised him and we have to keep it. Please, Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. We would like once again to point out that the government is also aiming at these arrangements, which will shortly be voted on, to pass the logic of less evil, above all to get used to the people living with the slightest, to forget the losses, to overturn, to accept as a one-way support for business groups. This regular policy you want to hide with the few crumbs you give the victims and, of course, with measures to strengthen the large business groups. To mention, of course, VAT, particularly on energy, which aims to enhance the profitability of large energy-intensive enterprises both in industry and in tourism. I shall refer to the issue of the thirteenth pension. Of course, you don't call it an allowance, as the FBI says. So EKA has called it a holiday aid in its introduction and is an aid of EUR 300 and EUR 500 for those with the lowest pension of up to EUR 500. We say that what pensioners earn in their fight is good and we won't get in the way. But returning crumbs and with nerve you call them benefits cannot be tolerated. The amendments are revealed by the rejection of the JRC's amendments that you do not want to disturb the designs of business groups, which you are carrying out with a lot of warmth. That is why you are rejecting the amendment to proclaim the strike. You are insisting on the greatest obstacles to its abolition. Workers, the self-employed, need to draw conclusions not to tolerate the game of less evil which, at this meeting, has been attempting to become even more on the occasion of the seven days. It nails each other, while it is your policy of modern slavery that you have shaped, since you support and implement the decisions of the European Union, which leave nothing standing from the constant daily time, stable work with rights. This is the European Charter of Social Rights, which you call upon him, minimums, opportunities, not rights. Your strategy is the same and your projects are proof, what you heard about "PASTRATO", "TRAINOSE", tourism and others. We want to point out - to the workers hear it - that it is the result of the signature of your staff in the labour movement, officials of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA sign the working middle ages. These must be condemned by the workers and must show forces of racing, radical, forces of the PDP, who are putting their heads against capital, the European Union, their parties and their governments and their governments and policies, which are organising the struggle to recover the losses, for the modern needs, which will fight for a stable daily, five-day, 40-hour, with the aim of further reduction to 30-day, for wages which will satisfy modern needs, continue their struggle to drive employers out of the unions, who want by their participation to perpetuate the overturns, which have been worth and have been implemented, and continue in the next few months. The working class cannot reconcile and tolerate this policy. It cannot be patient in politics that leads to chamois. The European Union is its enemy, as is the parties that support it and implement the measures that lead it to live worse, while the wealth produced is greater. The wage market value is in 1980. That is, if you like, the approach taken by the Committee of Wise Men, which you have appointed. Now is the time for the pensioners who saw PASOK, New Democracy and now SYRIZA to level them, need to pay you with the same currency. The self-employed who also saw them all robbed in turn need also to be paid in the appropriate currency. Young people and young people listening to opportunities, not rights, who live in the nightmare of unemployment, the EUR 300 job, the elastic forms of work that you stole from their dreams about their lives, cannot tolerate this situation. They need to be enlisted in the struggle for the break-up and overthrow of the barbarity of the capital dictatorship. As we have pointed out, the JRC will not prevent the one euro that the people can get, we will not prevent a single click of relief from the nipple in the neck of the self-employed person, who we would point out is before drowning and many, of course, have drowned them. We shall do the same with the amendments which include the reduction of VAT, the aid to pensioners. This content has the'representations' that we are voting on in principle and in many articles and amendments. Finally, we want to note the inconvenience you are bringing back to the Ottawa workers on the dates, Minister, for political control. A month ago you gave a date 31-12-2019 and you come now and you get it back and you put a date 31-7-2019. Finally, we want to say about the Minister of Labour, that we have tabled a number of proposals, which are currently being heard by many, and you have not given an answer. In the period of inertia of a worker, this time should not be counted for time in insurance, should not be charged contributions. It's a period of inertia. Mr. Petropoulos knows, several people have visited him. You've done nothing about it. There is also the question we have raised in Article 41 that, at the end of the year, this reserve, as there is no other request, is attributed to the organisations. And that has not been included. In addition, on Article 53, on dismissal, we have said, Minister, that the employee's compensation should be regarded as irresponsible and have these conditions because it is a compensation given to meet the difficulties of his unemployment. But you did not accept that either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u160	Please shorten up, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u161	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, for the pensions for the luxurious families, which could indeed for every child beyond three, you could make an additional 1% relief, and that is why we did not receive an answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u162	Thank you. Mrs. Libertyraki, you have the floor. Then for a minute, Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Papapas want to speak and the Minister of Finance will close for more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, I will not repeat what I mentioned in my prototype. This is an important piece of legislation. The issues with up to a hundred and twenty instalments, which facilitate repayment of debts, are important. We on the river would like to see them with a little more growth momentum. As in every great piece of legislation, they infiltrate and various customers. The question of recognizing the real times for the calculation of pensions for members of the IGC seems to me to be almost disgraceful. They insinuate things that are paternalistic, such as treating orphan children, which extends their insurance cover up to thirty - five, as if they had some sort of job incapacity. It is age-phobic and sexist in some respects, when it explains why women over fifty-two can't find a job and therefore the limit should be abolished, and it is also traditional when it says that the duration of the marriage should be reduced from five to three years before the deceased leaves. It's a little cobbler in some parts. Sounds very nice when the widow's pension rate rises from 50% to 70% of her husband, but what she doesn't say is she will be recalculated. So you have to tell us - and we want to hear that - what will come out of the recalculation. That is something that must be clear. I understand the insurance policy, that the garbage has to become a normal system. I understand it's badly, reckless, difficult, unbearable points. We must, however, have a common perception of where we are going. There's some misunderstanding. I referred to my speech and to the committee that the serious reason for dismissal must be understood that it is a serious reason not to incorporate it and I understand that in the election you do not want to discuss it, but we need to find a way in this House to discuss what measures are to facilitate the creation of jobs, without having to vote at the end, but in order to achieve a common point of understanding of what helps and what not. I would just like to focus on the issue of measures of a permanent nature and, in particular, the thirteenth pension, which I do not care if you call it a thirteenth, if you call it a help, if you call it a red-eye. Undoubtedly, it is important for them and for those who take it. But there is one point we need to discuss. Permanent measures in insurance commitments need a proportionate study. Parliament and society need to know what obligations it undertakes, and it needs to know who benefits. And tell you why. There is no doubt that pensions have been cut fourteen times over the last fifteen years. Retired people's income was coming down the stairs. At the same time as the elevator, the income of other categories went down. This will not say that pensioners prosper, but it means that others need more families with children, unemployed. There are charges that most urgently needed support. I do not want to say that there are no charges of retired people who are poor or at a serious risk of poverty. I would therefore say that the money that the government has decided to channel back as a balance, a small balance, of losses in connection with a way of dealing with income. I heard Mr. Tsakato the other day saying that they're thinking that they're going back to CSR, unless I didn't get it right. One way to go through C.E.S., where you see that she goes where there's a greater need, closer to poverty. Another way is to incorporate it into the social solidarity allowance, which is a permanent, correct way, so that if there is any reason for it at some point, it does not exist. But it is not possible to make a commitment to a multi-annual horizon, not a decade, but a long-term one, and there is no clear analogous study on realistic assumptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u164	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor. Mr Colleague, please speak from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, in any case I shall speak from my position, I shall be brief because of the limitation of time. We have also experienced, within Athens, the continuation of meaningless controversy on issues that could involve public dialogue, if this confrontation were creative. Unfortunately, Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis are making an acute controversy, but a low level, which leads nowhere. It is, of course, intended to cover the poverty of politics and the negative things and to win each one for his part what can - the government can - and Mr Mitsotakis, to replace it in power - but the problems of the world remain without even an effective debate. And that is why I have to make a reference to the last issue that has to do with public hospitals. I will give you a concrete example, and the government and Qualified Opposition must be placed here today. From 2014 to 2019, the MRI is not operating at Attica hospital. We created the "Atticon" Hospital, a huge infrastructure for Attica and Greece, and the magnetic tombographer doesn't work for four and a half years. The Minister does not come to answer questions from the Vice-President present, Mr Kremastinou, and, of course, to tell you that, even a year and a half in the same hospital, there are no interventions to place a valve in the aorta, because there is a disagreement among the people where the matter is handled. They must respond to them, and then we will resolve management issues. I come to the amendment, which you said, Mr President, that there may be the subject of the report by the General Accounting Officer of the State. He has a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, because we have tabled it as a proposal for a law and we have received the report. What we do is not give any pensions. The pensioner of the OGA, the OAU and the EIF shall simply not lose his right to recover the full pension. Just to say this: if it is not accepted for its own reasons by the Minister - and expressed its opinion - I would say that it could put a provision at the end of the government regulation, as it stands, that the pensioner retains the right, if he arranges in the available ways his debt, to recover the full pension entitlement. Otherwise, he'll have huge problems. I endorse what has been said about widow's pensions and a number of other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u167	And I close, Mr President, by saying that the debate may have been three days, but it has not been creative - at least on the government side - in relation to the proposals we have put forward. He did not agree to discuss what we have and have all, all the proposals tabled by Mrs Gennamas in the General Accounting Office of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, the Minister who will close the meeting will take note of it. Here, Mr Pappa, you have the floor for a minute, but really for a minute, not for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u169	Not like Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u170	No, less.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u171	Two yards and two weights.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u172	Two yards and two stations, fine, let's go below. You're late, that's why. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u173	That is a good democracy, Mr President. Thank you so much! Rejoice the Greek people! Mr President, I have taken the floor at the end of this bill and of the three-day debate, a plan which concerns millions of fellow citizens, to make this clear: Golden Dawn is a political opponent, a strong political opponent of the Left. It's obvious, we don't have to say it. He thinks your government is nationally injurious. The government, to which you are a Member, Mr President, is nationally dangerous and the Golden Dawn will do its utmost politically in order for this government to fall. We state, however, that we are just as politically rivals to the New Democracy, that is to say, those who honor the struggles of the Left, the New Republic of Ethnicism, the New Republic of Kyrides, the "Tatsopoulos" and the others. It is necessary, therefore, to clarify to stop and stop the various parrots saying which tail is Golden Dawn. The Golden Dawn is nobody's tail, the Golden Dawn is on the side of the Greek people. So I say to you that in this bill, the multi-legislative bill, which concerns millions of citizens and which concerns the election eruptions that you literally give at the last minute because of elections to beneficiaries and citizens who are seen on your own fault - you are to blame - we will be responsible for this. That's why we're here, that's why we swore. For political reasons, therefore, fundamentally, but above all in the interests of the Greek people, we in this bill will vote in favour in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u174	Thank you. I call on the Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotos, in Stepma, to close the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. I am now reading in the opposition press that a European official is concerned, is confused, is confused for our plan for 2019 and for the 2020 plan. Mr President, if I took 1 euros every time a European official off the record had concerns, it was sad, it had concerns, I would have gathered with some friends to go to Santorini for at least ten days. And if I didn't get 1 euro every time we had a reproduction of this news off the record, then I could go for a year to Bahamas. So, all I have to say to you is that this government is working on a plan, program and alliances. We have cost the measures of 2019. It is more than EUR 1 billion, but we are also earning EUR 200 million from the instalments and the numbers are conservative, that is, we expect that we also have a cabotage if something is wrong. That's how this government works, with numbers, on numbers. We make policy on numbers and do not transform the numbers to make the policy we want. We have a development plan and a development plan. I told you in my speech on Friday. As far as this programme is concerned, it is not just that it is posted on the Ministry's site. It is that there is a whole governmental update committee. What we say about the cyclical economy - to take an example, or to take another example for the agricultural sector - we look at it again, we update it and we can at some point discuss conflicting development strategies. Regarding the positive measures of 2019, New Democracy and KINAL say that we do not return all the VAT where it should have been, where it was. As far as pensions are concerned, they say we don't all give them to everyone, and we don't say anything about tax. I repeat: we have a specific financial area. This financial area for 2019 is EUR 1.1 billion. If you are thinking of being older, you must submit these priorities you have for VAT, otherwise tell us what you will cut off from the other things we have done. Because we in 2019 made a balanced policy. We will not give it all to taxes, not all to pensions, and not all to children, which we have done a lot of things. The new couples are the housing allowance. It has been approved for two hundred thousand applications, which are six hundred thousand citizens. And within it is two hundred and thirty thousand children. We have also done things for energy - which we are now reducing - and for district heating in Macedonia to deal with energy poverty. So it's a package that's costly and there's something for all people, for all the middle layers, for all the popular layers and for the excluded ones. That's our policy. We've got something for everyone. We don't put all the eggs in a basket. But we are trying, as we come out of the crisis, as we have growth, to help different groups that have suffered. And we fully understand that these groups are many and will continue to need help. And I'll say one last word. I guess not, let's not promise something I can't keep. I'll say a last word about the middle layers. For you the middle layers are only interested in wages? So, you don't know middle layers of kids that will be helped by the housing allowance? Don't they have children who need help and what has been done by the Ministry of Labour? Aren't they spending on energy? They don't want any better hospitals? What picture do you have of the middle class? I'm trying to understand. What do you think is the middle class? Aren't they citizens of this country? They don't want a social state? Is that what you think? And I'll say one last word about the middle class. I gave you some information about what is going on in the middle class in Europe, how bad they are, how wages do not go up at all, how they lose jobs, how they have expectations of worse jobs for their children. No conversation. You tell us that you are pursuing European policies. European analyses can you have to follow these European policies? Can I hear from your mouth at some point what you think is the problem and we have this collapse of the political system with Brexit, with AFD on the right? Where's your analysis? Just for immigrants? I hope not. Because - as you know - the AFD in Germany has power in East Germany, which has no immigrants and not power in West Germany that has immigrants. I hope you're going a little deeper into things and not being a Hollywood project that goes deep to the surface of things. And what does the international working office say about the middle-class in Germany? It says that on the basis of this it was disastrous to reduce collective agreements and to reduce trade union weakness. Because that wasn't just for traditional workers. He put a "top" on jobs, which the middle classes have. The whole world, in other words, talking about the crisis, is talking about inequality. I have never heard - and I hope to blame you - that your main concern is to deal with inequality. And because ILO says this about Germany and the middle classes, I would like to hear the questions raised by Mrs Ahtsoglou. Why did you not vote for none of them? - A charity intervention the Ministry of Labour did? Do you think that in Greece at this moment the world of work is very powerful and the world of capital is weak? Is that what you think? Is there a balance where the workers want it? So will an employer go and tell the worker, 'whether you want to work for seven days?' And the worker will say 'good idea'. Give me two days to think about it and I'll answer, Mr. Director.” Is that your opinion of how the labour market works? Are the workers so comfortable to make a prose for a little bit more work and say that of course a good proposal, put down the pros and cons? Is that your view of the labour market? Because I do not understand if you think there is an imbalance between capital and work. So we're trying to get out of this crisis with a stronger working class. That is why we support it. Because that's how you can deal with inequality. It's not just benefits, it's not just social policy, no matter how important it is. The point is to change the balance of power between work and capital. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that Mr Mitsotakis said something about seven days' work. I - who am a good man - accept that he meant seven days' work, business activity. If that's the case, then he said nothing. What then? He comes in and says he has a new, cunning plan. What's the new, cunning plan? That companies will work for seven days, as PPC does, as does METRO, as "PAPASTRATO" like steelworks. So make a choice. Or you will say that Mr Mitsotakis does want to work seven days for the workers or he said nothing at all. The new one is the absolute nothing. I believe the first, but I am - as we say - a kind man and I accept the other answer - that the new Republic of New Democracy is the absolute vacuum.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u176	You want an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u177	We're used to your answers, Mr. Brutsi. Too few times give the problem light. Confusion is causing. So I guess I don't want an answer right now, 'cause I'm very doubtful you can get some light on this. Let's go now - to finish - with something else Mr. Mitsotakis told me. Mr Mitsotakis said that sixty-four personalities have written a text that we need to discuss. There will be an answer to the same newspaper - which the sixty-four wrote - from me and from Mr Stathakis. The title - just to say about the article - is: 'What is progressive policy?'. I just want to say one thing. I don't believe in progress outside history. I do not believe in progress outside society, outside values and outside conflicts. I can't believe it, because the story's backwards. I do not believe it, because progress has never been made automatically because of technology or because we have had the technocrats, the worthy of them! The state, society and the economy never went this way. He went through people who were fighting, clashes about their values, about their beliefs. Mr Dendias is absolutely right that it is not a matter of good and bad people. I really believe that. Nor do I believe that on the one hand they are all good, and that's where the bad guys are, and obviously not the tumbalin. But progress is a matter of conflict, it's a matter of ideas, it's a matter of history. We can never sit on the left and left, waiting for this progress to come at some point from the evolution of the production forces or from something else. That's why SYRIZA made alliances with people who had ideological differences, and now some have left and some have gone. That's why SYRIZA has opened up to the progressive alliance with people who can't stand the center and the centre-left to talk about SYRIZA's strategic defeat, as though that's the key. But that is why we now have a name and recognition in Europe. And this name and recognition in Europe and Greece we have it as the Left. And as the left, we're going down to these elections, and as the left, we're going to win.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is adjourned: "Legislation of debts to Social Security Bodies, Tax Administration and O.T.A. (a) Degree, pension arrangements and other insurance and pension provisions, strengthening of the protection of workers and other provisions.’ We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would remind you that the vote includes the principle of the bill, a hundred seventeen articles, eleven amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have voted for the principle of the bill, all the articles, amendments, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After you register your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u179	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u180	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u181	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: “Compensation of debts to Social Security Bodies, Tax Administration and the O.T.A. (a) Degree, pension arrangements and other insurance and pension provisions, strengthening the protection of workers and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u183	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S1-commons.u184	With the consent of the House at 14.25', the sitting is closed for Wednesday 15 May 2019 at 16.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: 1) Discussion and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the proposal of the President of Parliament: "To amend provisions of the Parliamentary Party's Rules of Procedure (VAT 106 A'24-6 1987), as applicable" and 2) Legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all drafts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's law: (a) "Repeal of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a border crossing point between the two countries, which will link the Promas to the Greek Republic and the Republic of Majden".
