ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 30-8-2019 authorisation, the minutes of its IF proceedings, Friday 30 August 2019, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Consolidations of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and other urgent provisions’.]] [[Insert the decision, page 29a]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Parliament's decisions: debate and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament - Part of Parliament'. The debate is taking place on analogous basis under Rule 108(5) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives for five minutes. The majority rapporteur, Mrs Zoe Rapt, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating two necessary amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the House which have arisen because of the reintegration of the House following the elections on 7 July, but also because of the recent resolution of No4622/2019 on the selection of the Governor of the new National Transparency Authority. With the proposed first amendment of Rule 13 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Committee on the Library of Parliament shall be added to Rule 13(1) of this Rules of Procedure as a member of the Conference of Presidents. This is to restore a numerical majority within the institution that is currently a tie between a parliamentary majority and the whole of the opposition, and the President's vote today prevails. After all, in 2017, this issue of the Conference of Presidents had been resolved in a corresponding way, namely by adding to its composition the chair of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs at the time. Now, respectively, the chairman of the House's Library Committee is added to have a one-vote majority vote. The number of members of the institution thus increases by one and makes it easier to take the relevant decisions. I would remind the House that the composition of this House is now six-party instead of eight-party like the previous one, which affects the composition of the above institution respectively. The second proposed amendment establishes the necessary parliamentary procedure for the selection of the new Governor of the National Transparency Authority in accordance with the recently adopted provisions of Law 4622/2019 and in particular Article 90(2) thereof. In accordance with the proposed provision, the President of the Parliament shall convene a meeting of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency for the selection, on a proposal from the Ministerial Council, of the Governor of the National Transparency Authority with full mandate. If the Committee on Institutions and Transparency approves the proposal of the Ministerial Council, its decision shall be notified to the Prime Minister. If the proposal of the Ministerial Council is not accepted by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, the procedure laid down in the second subparagraph of Article 90(2)(d) of Law 4622/2019 shall be repeated for the other two main candidates. If this is chosen by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, the relevant decision shall be notified to the Prime Minister. If not selected, the relevant practice of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency shall be notified to the Prime Minister. On a proposal from the Ministerial Council for the selection of the Governor of the National Transparency Authority for a two-year term, this concerns the first term of operation of the Committee, the President of the Parliament shall convene a meeting of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency to decide on it. The decision of the Committee shall be notified to the Prime Minister. Such an amendment shall be made by adding an internal numbering to paragraph 2(a) of Article 43a of the Rules of Procedure and adding that provision to paragraph II. Therefore, given the importance that is currently attached to the functioning of the new institution of the National Transparency Authority for the fight against corruption in our country, which has been discussed in detail in this Chamber and the fact that the Ministerial Council has already proposed last week the person intended for a new commander of the authority, it is obvious that the need to adapt the Rules to the new data so that the relevant Committee on Institutions and Transparency to exercise its powers under the law of selecting the person above. This choice must also be made as soon as possible to ensure the smooth start of the new principle and, of course, the letter and spirit of the proposed regulation is fully in line with the provisions of No 4122/2019. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it was clear to all colleagues that the need for the Rules of Procedure to be changed immediately, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the Conference of Presidents, and also to establish the necessary parliamentary procedure for the selection of the Governor of the newly established National Transparency Authority in accordance with the legislation that we have recently adopted. These are, therefore, the necessary interventions in the functioning of this House for which we are calling for the support of all Members, and we urge you to vote in favour of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u3	And we thank Mrs Rapti for her speech in time. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Zachariadis, is therefore invited to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. It was discussed in detail yesterday and yesterday in the committee. With regard to the first change, it is quite clear and understandable that by changing the composition of the House it is the majority's right to vote in the Conference of Presidents. In this sense, too, our opinion and our attitude to this issue are conducive, although we believe that Parliament and the Conference are the best area for finding consensus and understanding. Now in relation to the second article, namely the adaptation to Law 4622/2019, you will remember that we were placed in this matter and in plenary. Obviously, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament must incorporate this provision in order to be able to apply. Our logic was and still is that it must be through the legislation that is being voted on to run into the field of consensus, consultation and transparency, which is why we insisted on the question of the 4/5. This has not been ensured, and in this sense we will be placed as 'present' because of our previous position, even though we recognise that the provision must be incorporated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u5	I would particularly like to remind you of the younger colleagues, some of whom are here, that under the Constitution the House regulates the house on the basis of its Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. As far as Parliament is concerned, therefore, it must go to its Rules of Procedure to ensure that Parliament's institutional compliance is then implemented, because Parliament has this autonomy. Please take the floor, the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I must say that you have confused me with your reference, because of course the House in accordance with its Rules of Procedure and the Constitution determines the house, but finally with your second statement that the law was passed in this way, so we must incorporate it in this way, it turns out that the government rules the Rules of Procedure of the House. So this basic principle does not apply in this case. I would say that the different concept of government and parliament should have been dealt with at the earlier stage, in the consultation process, in the debate on the vote on the bill. As far as the House is concerned, in its opinion on the new principle, it should be borne in mind that Parliament will be able to give its opinion and, of course, that it was this opinion by a qualified majority. This, at least, requires the spirit of consensus expressed in the previous period and the party that today has the rule of the country. But here we can see that what we can say was also happening in previous cases, but not always. As soon as New Democracy became a government, it forgot about consensus. SYRIZA, of course, remembered the consensus. Because they too, as a government majority, have unfortunately not been in this spirit. So I would say that this is a very serious matter. We have put ourselves in a positive position in unifying the fragmented language mechanisms. It was a necessary legislative initiative and we hope it will work properly. However, we have completely disagreed with the simple majority required by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and, of course, - the unexplained - that the first term of office may be two years. It is an issue that has not been explained. He could have been a one-year-old, he could have been a three-year-old. Since the five-year period, what was the point? To be a regular process. So I would like to say again to the rapporteur that, unfortunately, they are growing not on the part of my colleague, but on the whole by the government, the arguments 'but it was in the past, and so have you.' As long as these arguments are raised, Mr President, I think you understand that the wrong texts are not corrected and will never be corrected. This practice will be transferred to a later stage. So, if the first issue, as I have raised in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, is to be seen from the outset at a time when you will judge the issue of setting up the Conference of Presidents to ensure that the popular verdict and the formation of the House do not affect the composition of the Conference of Presidents. What have we done in the past and now? We say it's okay to build the Conference of Presidents in our measures. Is the majority principle to apply? Sure. Is this principle to be abused so that what can be developed in this House, namely dialogue, consultation and consensus or even consultation on key issues, can be a second basic principle? Sure. So, let's talk about this at some point. At the stage we are in, because in an unorthodox way the majority principle in the Conference of Presidents had been served in the previous period, this amendment is also justified, but a comprehensive review is needed. With regard to the article on the inclusion of the proposal on the content of the law and the proposal made in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we have voted'represent' because, although it is true that the standard of integration has to go hand in hand, we totally disagree with this logic of the government which is currently being imposed on Parliament and which did not have the opportunity for free will and the opportunity to form, as the Parliament itself would have done, the institution itself. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u7	I wanted to say before I gave the floor to the Special Speaker of the Communist Party, Mr Pafile, that he obviously preceded the legislature of the executive state on the basis of which the Rules of Procedure are currently being adapted, but the Government instructed the House to listen to the commander of this body while, I imagine, renounce this process and keep it to itself. So the House's consortium is not something that reduces the House. It is something that gives Parliament a role, and we must now institutionalise it for ourselves, but it is how everyone sees it. Mr. Pafilis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. The argument of the current government, like the previous one - I do not remember the previous ones - is that the Conference of Presidents must be completed with someone from this House to have a government majority. I would like to start by saying that when we say 'the decision of the Conference of Presidents' by 99%, let me say 90%, it is a decision of the government party - whether today or earlier - which has a majority. It is a feeling that the House decides, but the House does not decide in general. The House has majorities and minorities. The government's majority is decided. This government majority is really a majority in the people? Oh, no. The New Democracy today has a hundred and fifty-eight Members with what percentage? He should have taken 52%. By analogy, and based on the urban political system, it is a wide majority. In other words, one party or another's allegiance is being created in the House, which, however, is a minority. We do not vote under that, therefore, despite the fact that we understand how it should work. With regard to the second, which concerns the President of the National Transparency Authority, exactly what applies to all independent authorities. Are the authorities independent, really? No, we are. The authorities are not independent for two reasons. The first reason why they decide in a specific institutional framework whether it is called European legislation or government decisions and cannot leave it nor can they do better, especially for the people. Secondly, why are they literally appointed by the governments concerned? What's independent? What is happening here is that this procedure will be done and if they do not decide it will come back again and in the end who will decide? The Ministerial Council. So it's the show, in our opinion, and it's hypocrisy. Of course, there may be some minor contradictions, but the substance does not change, the individual government appoints whoever it wants. And having a majority, which we repeat that it is wide-ranging in relation to the popular will, even in these elections that are being held, it creates a delusion in the world that Parliament decides. Of course, there may be consents. And consents are huge between both SYRIZA and KINAL and the New Democracy, it is the joint programme, the third memorandum, for example, and all the rest. These are political consensus. Now the fight that is sometimes being done is mainly about the faces, about which area they will belong, and of course every government does what it does is to place its own. And I say now, the revision of the Constitution, of course, is over, and everyone is talking about the independence of justice. One side is that justice applies laws that are passed, which are what they are, anti-grassroots, etc. How the hell can 95% - 98% of strikes go out illegal, it's a question of how, and it's not just the judges' fault. Secondly, everyone says that there should be a consensus on justice. SYRIZA when he was opposition was on the tiles. He just called the government, did exactly what the previous people did. New Democracy did the same. We have proposed that this article of the Constitution be revised and that there should be a debate - and there may be some consensus - to be appointed by a larger body alone or in some other way so that they can have a wider support and not by the government in question. That is why - I do not want to say it, but it is a mockery to say that it is independent and to appoint the entire government. So, Mr President, we will not vote for these changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u9	The series is the special employer of the Greek Solution, Mrs. Athanasios. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in plenary today to discuss changing the Rules of Procedure of the House on increasing the number of participants in the Conference of Presidents and on the responsibilities of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency for the adoption and appointment, in substance, of the Governor of the newly created Transparency Authority, which the government has recently introduced with the draft law on the state. And when I read the explanatory statement, Mr President, I dare tell you that I did not understand the reasons, the reasons and the necessity for some of the arrangements that the plenary is called upon to decide today. Why, Mr President, should the number of participants in the Conference of Presidents be increased with the participation of the Chairman of the Committee of the Library of Parliament? What is the benefit of his presence? Because in the explanatory statement you did not explain it to us as you were due, nor did you tell us about it. Is it aimed at pluralising the thoughts, actions and final decisions of the Conference of Presidents? Will the Conference of Presidents be more effective with this addition, or will we simply have one vote in favour? We will have one vote in favour! And also, Mr President, what will be the financial burden of this proposal on the budget? How much will the budget cost and burden the person concerned's participation in this conference and with what reward for the work of the conference, Parliament and, in particular, the Greek people? Furthermore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 43(2) of the Rules of Procedure provides for the addition of powers to the Special Standing Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the House, so that it may approve the appointment of the Governor of the National Transparency Authority. However, from reading the text of the addition, as it came to committee today in plenary, it is not at all clear what procedure will be followed if the second candidate proposed to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, in accordance with the last subparagraph of the first paragraph of the addition, is rejected. Will the next complication be proposed immediately from the list set up by the Management Board, or will the competition be resumed by the authority for that post and by how long? Furthermore, by which majority will the approval or non-approved proposal for the candidate person be granted? In our opinion, then, it would be appropriate because of the importance of the position and the functioning of the principle that the Committee on Institutions and Transparency should be approved by a qualified majority, namely that of the 3/5 members of the committee for the best and maximum possible consensus of the parliamentary groups. Yesterday this was said to the committee and the President gave me the answer that the whole procedure would be blocked. We as a Greek Solution insist that in this way we have a real democracy, Mr President. It is also a principle that will control and exploit all the potential available to it by the State for the benefit of the state, the state and ultimately the Greek people. The maximum possible parliamentary consensus should be sought in the selection of the governor of the authority and should not be a option for party or government, as other colleagues have said. Of course, the first vote could be proposed to grant approval to require a large majority in the spirit of the above, but also a second vote more proportionally, but not similar to paragraph 4 of Article 39. In this way, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislator and our democracy will be required as the first choice and knowledge of the respective government and Prime Minister, and a second procedure in the absence of an initial agreement in the committee which can lead to the appointment of a commander of the authority at the initiative of the respective synergy, while leaving the original spirit of the legislator for consensus to be fulfilled, which should always be sought, without, however, suspending and preventing the functioning of the state. I would like to finish, ladies and gentlemen, since I am honoured to speak from the Stepma, by the fact that we in the Greek Solution continue to ask these twenty signatures to investigate the responsibilities of the former Minister, Mr Kotzia, for the Prespecies Agreement. It is the desire of the Greek people! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, too. Most of you asked, we answered them yesterday. But you also asked about the cost. The cost of adding a member to the Conference of Presidents is EUR 65. This is not overwhelming in relation to the fact that the majority of these committees are to be restored. The majority, of course, do not prohibit wider consensus. It is, however, a final decision-making stage. And because at some point you said 'we prefer the blockade from democracy', you probably meant 'we propose democracy from the blockade'. I'm saying this so we don't make any corrections. Mrs Bakadima has the floor on behalf of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the proposal by the President of the Parliament concerning the amendment of two articles of the Rules of Procedure, namely Articles 13 and 43a. The addition to the first article concerns the enlargement of members participating in the Conference of Presidents and the second proposes the selection of the Governor of the newly created State, following the adoption of the recent Law of the Executive State N.4622/2019, the National Transparency Authority by the Permanent Committee of Institutions and Transparency of the Parliament, both for the full and the two-year term of office at the beginning of this operation. Although we very clearly understand the need to incorporate in the Rules of Procedure decisions which either concern an existing institution or concern a principle that was established by law precisely because of the content and substance of the two additions, we can only oppose both and vote against both of them in principle and in the articles, even though we voted yesterday in committee. But let me explain the exact reasons for this opposition. First, in accordance with Rule 13 of the Rules of Procedure, the members of the Conference of Presidents are, in addition to the President of the Parliament, the Vice-Presidents of the parties, the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Nikos Voutsis, the six Chairs of the Standing Parliamentary Committees, the Chairman of the Committee of Institutions and Transparency, the Chairs of the six parliamentary groups who, as usual, are replaced by their representatives and the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and, in accordance with paragraph 5 of the same Rule, decisions are taken by an absolute majority of the present Members - unless otherwise laid down - and in the event of a vote, the President is in excess of the vote. By thus analysing the present composition of the twenty-four members, thirteen belong to the governing party. With the implementation of the proposed addition of the President of the Committee of the Library of Parliament, we have the increase of members to twenty-five and those belonging to the New Democracy to fourteen. And if we look at the proposal in depth, we can see that, in fact, and in practical terms, the government follows the tactics of SYRIZA, which had previously added to the Conference of Presidents the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. It now adds, in turn, the President of the Library Committee. With this practice we have the addition to an instrument - which you are clearly aware of better than I do, because you are older than anyone on these benches - which, apart from procedural decisions such as the setting of the agendas and procedures for the debates in Parliament, also takes political decisions, such as the choice of the heads of the independent authorities. This adds to a dean who, despite being elected by Parliament, is the subject of the committee chaired, is an exclusively internal procedure such as the operation of the library. And even though it is clearly important for Parliament, it remains strictly internal and without political implications. The same applies, of course, to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The logic, ladies and gentlemen, behind these moves by both the current and the previous government, is obvious: it is the maintenance by the government of the control of the Conference of Presidents. We, as Mer25, must denounce this practice which makes a body of wider consensus and political culture, yet another pawn of the political sovereignty of each government. At the same time, we call for his withdrawal and for his amendment to be withdrawn from the Conference and the Chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Now in the second article, it should be noted that, in the relevant debate on the bill of staff, we strongly expressed our disagreement on this principle in the same way as the principle which is another example of the over-concentration of powers in the person of the Prime Minister. We could not stand different from this and in today's debate. As the authority remains in the absolute control of the Prime Minister, we consider it highly hypocritical that its Governor should be chosen by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of Parliament. Let him also be chosen by the Prime Minister so that the committee is not used as a means of creating impressions on the citizens of a flexible democratic consensus and dialogue between the parliamentary parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. I just wanted to tell you that in the committee, in the Conference of Presidents, the arithmetic ratio today is 12-12 and not 13-12. It's 12-12 and it's going to be 13-12. The reason for this is that the chairman of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency is majority, but the Vice-President is from Minority. You're the one who realized that the Vice President is from the majority. So now it's 13-12 and as it is Mera25 so the Conference of Presidents becomes twenty-five, not Mera25! Mr Tragakis has the floor, which is one of the Members who has asked for the floor for a few minutes and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I have just spoken for one reason: first of all, I would like to say what was happening all these times at the Conference of Presidents when we discussed the Rules of Procedure of the House in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure do not come to Parliament very often and there have always been - apart from a period of time, some very broad consensus. For the first time I see that the President brings a provision to change the Rules of Procedure on two issues which are self-proof that has to be done and there is an unprecedented reaction. First of all, I would like to say that the Conference of Presidents is the top parliamentary body. But it's also a committee. What has happened to the Rules of Procedure of the House with regard to committees? Clearly the Rules of Procedure stipulate that the ruling party must have the majority. He's anticipating it. Have you ever wondered, for example, in the Committee on Social Affairs, why the majority party has twenty-six and the other twenty-five? In all the other committees, why is that? Because the Rules of Procedure provide for that. Since the Conference of Presidents is also a committee, the Rules of Procedure provide that it must have the majority, irrespective of the fact that, if the Chairman of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency was not Vice-President of the House, the Vice-President of the House would not participate. So, as far as the issue of increasing one of the President of the Library in the House is concerned, it gives the ruling party the majority. Why does he give that right? Because decisions must be taken by a majority. In the previous Conference of Presidents, for example, there was twice as much chance that the President's vote would prevail. That was hardly accepted by the President at that time, as I think our President would never accept the use of the double-vote right to make a decision. So that was rightly passed and it had to pass. As far as the second issue is concerned about the Director's choice: The Governor's choice is a government decision that the House has legislated, namely, there is a parliament's legislation, there is a parliament law providing for procedures which must be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure. So, since this had to be done, the House could not deny its Rules of Procedure to incorporate these provisions and that is what it does. From there on, the crisis of the law took place when Law 4622/2019 was discussed and published 7-8-2019 and it is a new law. Therefore, the judgments on the law are reasonable and practicable. However, the decision of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure which we now consider to be necessary is a decision. In conclusion, Mr President, I also made a proposal to the committee and you gave an answer which satisfied me. As you know, I have worked very hard on changing the Rules of Procedure and on the parliamentary part, but also on Part II concerning staff. You told me that in October - I know - we will be ready to bring these changes. This must be done because there are too many cases that need to be changed, for example, the Parliamentary Party - you said so, and rightly so - in terms of speaking time, whether it concerns the Presidents of the parties or all the other speakers. I have often raised the question of the parliamentary representatives, because each parliamentary representative cannot speak by raising his hand. It is not entitled to take it and it has become custom here for the parliamentary representatives to raise their hands and take the floor. Therefore, a number of points in the Rules of Procedure need to be changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u15	Some parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u16	Always a number of parliamentarians. Therefore, a number of issues need to be changed and I hope, and I hope and believe, if it has been passed by the Commission on the Revision of the Constitution, whether there are any provisions that will now be adopted in the revised Constitution, they will be incorporated into the Rules of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u17	I thank my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset and the articles of the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part Parliamentary'. Does this House accept the proposal in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u19	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u21	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u22	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u23	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u24	The proposal by the President of Parliament, therefore, "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part of Parliament" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u27	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u28	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u29	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u30	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u31	Article 1 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 2 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u33	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u34	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u35	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u36	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u37	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u38	Article 2 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Is the farewell article of the proposal accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u39	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u40	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u41	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u42	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u43	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u44	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u45	Therefore, the farewell article of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. We shall now vote on the proposal as a whole. Will this House also accept the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u46	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u47	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u48	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u49	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u50	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u51	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u52	The proposal was accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament "To amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament - Part Parliament", was accepted in principle, pursuant to Rule and by a majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u53	I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as regards the vote on the above proposal by the President of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u54	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour to inform you that the Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Economics, Health, Justice, Home Affairs and Transport have tabled a draft law on 2-9-2019: 'Structuring it from 24-7-2019 BC. On 23 July 2018 (A' 127), the company's recommendation and its statutes were re-established.’ [[Referral back to the competent Standing Committee]] Before I asked for a solution to the sitting, I would like to read a request from a colleague for absence abroad. It's more information. "To the President of the Greek Parliament Mr President, I will inform you that I will be absent from the proceedings of the plenary and the Committees from Wednesday, 4 September to Friday, 6 September, on a parliamentary mission in Helsinki. Yours sincerely, Tasos Hadjitzeliou, MP Serres.” The Member, Mr Hatzidis, therefore, calls for a leave for absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u55	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-04-S1-commons.u56	It is with the consent of the House that the sitting is closed. End time 11.00 p.m.
