ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 8-10-2019, the minutes of its meeting, 8-10-2019, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Incorporation into the Greek legislation of Directives 2016/797, 2016/798 and 2016/2370 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Debates of the European Parliament 4100/26-9-2019 of a proposal submitted by thirty (30) Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group for the establishment of a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination, in accordance with Article 86(3) of the Constitution, Articles 153 next to the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on the ‘Prime Responsibility of Ministers’ as applicable, concerning the investigation of the following offences that may have been committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Dimitrios Papagelopoulos in the performance of his duties: 1) moral autocracy in the misuse of authority by physical automobile and direct synergy of judicial officers (Article 46(1), in conjunction with Article 239 Q), (2), challenge and offer for the execution of a crime (Article 186(1) and (2) C) moral autocracy in breach of duty and breach of duty (Article 46(1), in conjunction with Article 259 C, in conjunction with Article 259 C, and Article 224 C, in the event of a self-executive dismissal (Article 224 C. Today's debate will take place in accordance with Rule 155 of the Rules of Procedure and with the appropriate application of Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the procedure for the generalised question. In particular, with regard to the procedure for the debate and in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 4 October, I propose that Members should organise themselves in two circles. The debate will begin with a first circle of six speakers, in which the six parliamentary groups with speaking time will be represented for each speaker ten minutes without a secondary right. First of all, he will take the floor from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which has tabled the proposal, Rule 91(3) in conjunction with Rule 137(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The second cycle pursuant to paragraph 5 of Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure shall consist of twelve Members, namely the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, five Members, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group three Members and one MEP from each of the other four parliamentary groups, five minutes with speaking time, without the right of second-hand. Parliamentary Groups have already submitted a list of speakers and the Office has drawn up a single list, in which the Members of the Assembly will alternate with the Members of the House, in order to respect the analogy of the power of the Parliamentary Groups. The chairmen of the parliamentary groups, as defined in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, may also, if they so wish, participate in the debate. The speaking time of the Prime Minister and of the Chief of Officerial Representation is up to twenty minutes and up to fifteen minutes for the Presidents of the remaining four parliamentary groups. Parliamentary representatives will be speaking for twelve minutes without prejudice to the limitation laid down in Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, once the President of their parliamentary group has spoken before, they will speak for six minutes. Any changes in the order of speaking should take place in exceptional circumstances, after the list is drawn up, with a letter from the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group to which the Members belong, addressed to the Bureau, and subject to the need for mutual change. According to Rule 155(6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure: "During the debate on the proposal for prosecution, Parliament may allow for the appearance before it of the person against whom it turns, in order to hear his views. In any event, that person shall have the right to submit to the House a memorandum, registered in the Minutes.’ The person on which the proposal is directed will speak for twenty minutes. The information we have is that Mr. Dimitris Papagelopoulos will appear before the House in order to hear his views. In any event, the person mentioned above has the right to submit to the House a memorandum of censure entered in the Minutes, Rule 155(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Does this House consent?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u2	The House has consented. In accordance with Rule 86(3) of the Constitution, Rule 155(8) and Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, once the debate has been concluded, Parliament's plenary will decide by secret ballot on the establishment or non-Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination. The decision shall be taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members. I would also like to inform the House here that fellow Members or members of the Government who are on a mission of this House or of the Government abroad may participate in the secret ballot in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure of the House. In this case, before the vote, their votes will be delivered to the Bureau in sealed files. This file will be enclosed in a larger second file, indicating the name of the Member or the member of the Government who will vote by written vote. The dossier will be accompanied by a transfer document addressed to the President of Parliament. The lists will be delivered by accredited colleagues from the MPs or members of the government who are to vote under Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Does Parliament accept the proposal as I made it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u3	The House unanimously agreed. The Member, Mr Athanasios Ploris, from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, on 13 September the Vice-President of the Ice Board of Appeal sent us a document on a case of litigation under Article 86 of the Constitution, in particular, in order for the first time to investigate whether former Deputy Minister of Justice, in the course of his duties, intervened in the work of judges and pressed specific judicial officers in order to prosecute without evidence and to make accused political opponents. In this debate the parliamentary majority chooses to follow a fully institutional way. According to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, the initiative belongs to the MPs, and that is why you do not see ministers in the chairs, you do not see ministers being placed and there will be what you might have learned here, a Mr. Papagelopoulos coming from this step in a previous case and ask you to be disciplined in changing the case-law of the special court and while the file in the House had come with Article 86, to ask you - which it was reasonable for you to discipline, but in a strange way, the prosecutors - and prosecutors to change the case-law and otherwise bring the file. We are moving in a strict context and because the file has come to Parliament without delay, we are at a stage where we have the first elements. We therefore make it clear from now: The indictment is open during the preliminary procedure and for other offences if there is evidence of further interference. We also read headlines, which protests in the EBRD that there were interventions by this Minister, we have complaints from other prosecutors - to remember Mrs Tsatani - but also for other persons. And that is the institutionality, ladies and gentlemen. While you have chosen with three testimonies of hooded witnesses, drag ten political persons into justice - and notice, statements that have been falseed at least for the seven who have been filed - we are here and with the evidence we have and sufficient evidence, which is not based on hooded witnesses but on former colleagues of the Deputy Minister of Justice, two prosecutors. This evidence will develop you to see how the parliamentary majority is now choosing to bring a purely institutional proposal and not to extend it to other persons not mentioned by the material, keeping it open, if there is something in the preliminary there is also for other people, as high as they are, to account for any interventions. The case of Mrs Ryku is the first pillar of sufficient evidence that we come here to contribute. In the whole case we are discussing today, it is the resignation of Ms. Ryku on 24 March 2017, following a post in the newspaper "DOCUMENTO", denounceing that she will not become "Filigenia" in interventions in her work by the jury of state officials and strong interests. What comes up and says Mrs. Ryku with two statements on September 23, 2019? It says that having been charged in 2016 the file on the case “NOVARTIS”, she received a visit from the journalist, Ms. Papadakou, where she was even told - falsely as proved in the course - that there is also a video of a political person receiving money from “NOVARTIS”. This has a special value, because Mr Angelis in his statement also says that Mrs Toulopakis has told him that there is videos that she receives money and then told him "I made a mistake, that she does not exist". At the same time, it receives two calls, during the complaints by Mrs Ryku, which will be checked. In these two calls, by Mr Papaggiopoulou, does the second important matter which is the following dialogue, as reported by Mrs Rykos: 'Even you have not even sent NOVARTIS to Parliament?' "Minister, I, without any evidence, am not persecuting anyone." "You're out of your mind. Send her in. The following shall be taken care of by others.’; "I'm not this school." "Stay then and you'll see if your school is going to get good." This, ladies and gentlemen, was a good reason to have a preliminary examination, and to see whether what Mrs Ryku says is valid or whether what Mr Papingopoulos says applies. But how is it possible to overcome and do not vote on a proposal based on this dialogue, which comes to you on oath by the Prosecutor of Corruption, Mr Ryku? And we have this sequence, because we'll see a lot of sequences here. I will have a little more time, I hope, Mr President. Not much but a little more because it's the main suggestion. Ryku is being pressed, as she says, does not give in to a post in 'DOCUMENTO', resigns Ryku. First sequence. Let's go to the second case of Mr. Angelis. Do you know why Mr. Angelis is a special case? Because he's the most capable, honest and unmistakable prosecutor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u5	Easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u6	I'll tell you, Mr. Lappa. You say 'a bit'. I didn't believe it, too. Why am I telling you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u7	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u8	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u9	I'll tell you. I didn't believe that. But why am I telling you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u10	Mr. Igoumenides said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u11	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u12	Do you want me to talk or not, Mr. Janakopoulos? I wonder why Mrs Tsatani's complaints are more serious and reliable than the complaints made by Mr Giannis Aggelis "and especially the competent, honest and unscrupulous Public Prosecutor Giannis Angelis..."? Papagelopoulos, Committee of Institutions and Transparency, 29-3-2016. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I don't call him, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, capable, honest and unmistakable prosecutor. Mr. Papagelopoulos told him in 2016. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Ploris, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And look what's happened now. And Tsatani, the untrustworthy according to Mr. Papagelopoulos, said that she has interventions in her work and Mr. Angelis, the unblemished, the honest and capable in 2016, says she has interventions from Mr. Papagelopoulos. This is the man who has witnessed, gentlemen of SYRIZA, who, if he went to court, would have brought Papadikalos to tell what a good prosecutor he is. They're not hooded witnesses. And if Mr Papagelopoulos says this is Mr Angelis, I have no reason to question it. And what's going on? Indeed, Mr. Angelos in October 2018, on the basis of a government SYRIZA, takes over over and succeeds another resigned Deputy Attorney of the Ice Bay, Mr. Papageorgiou. The man lasted two months. So, what's going on now? We have a post in the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" on 5-1-2019, which says that Mr Angelis refused to receive a mass and resignation of Mr. Aggelis on 7-1-2019 with a letter of resignation that denounces that prosecutors of corruption had decided to prosecute against political persons without evidence until 20-12-2018, at the expense of Mr. Loverdou - who is here -, Mr. Salma and Mr. Georgiadis. Is that all Mr Angelis says? Oh, no. Here comes the mixed control step and says they were under pressure from the corruption prosecutor to make a conclusion by 15-12-2018, stating that they have a complete inability to respond to the time. At the same time, Mr. Angelis says that there was a wish by the prosecutors, that he should go to break and not complete for all political persons, and he comes directly from his resignation and denounces a "Raspoutin" who is an orchestra in this case, who is a government person, and then from 23-9-2019 his statement, he states that the prosecutors had decided, that there was a "Raspoutin" government person who was moving all the strings, that he was informed by the Prosecutor of the Ice Authority, Mrs. Demetriou, that the Minister of Justice was aware. Shouldn't these people be exploring and coming to say whether what they say is true or not? But look at the new sequence of events. He denounces the honest, capable and unmistakable prosecutor who entered the SYRIZA government to control the part of corruption. Then we have a post in "DIMMOCRATIA". In "Dimoratia" we also saw pictures that Mr. Papagelopoulos has good relations and comes out in restaurants and eats with people. We have a resignation of Mr. Angelis. We have a second resignation. Among these, however, denounced by Mr. Angelis, there was no proper work done with the protected witnesses. And you know what we got on the piece of protected witnesses? A protected witness who brought him up with the protection status - and I am referring to Nikos Maniadakis - came out with a brand name and complained that he was under pressure in order to say without evidence and without anything against Samaras, Stournara and Georgiadis. You'll tell me he's unreliable. But he could not have been reliable when he gave the testimonies as a protected witness and then be unreliable. But what is the peculiarity of Mr Maniadakis' case? It is that he never should have entered the testimonial regime, because he was involved, which the prosecutors could not ignore. And we need to check whether these prosecutors just made a mistake or took one direction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] He also, when he refuses to give a statement, comes a post at DOCUMENTO on November 11, 2018, which proclaims that a witness, because he does not cooperate, there will be a statement against him and will come out of the protection regime. On 27 November 2018, the DOCUMENTO proclaimed as of 11 November 2018, was deposited. And we have the following sequence. Refusal of a protected witness to speak against Samara, Stournara, Georgiadis and a post in "DOCUMENTO" that will be lifted from the protection regime. And it's withdrawn from the protection regime. This is the third interesting sequence. However, there are additional deficiencies in the procedure. There was an envelope here after the rally. You remember the famous statement by Mr. Papaggiopoulou outside the Maximou House that, with partial knowledge of the litigation he has received and with his experience as a judiciary officer, this is the biggest scandal and that the political system must also make his self-clearance. So he's talking about a scandal that's linked to politicians. The strange thing is that the former Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, had this knowledge. For two statements to Parliament, on 2 February 2017 and on 10 February 2017, before the witness-protected testimonies filed, he announced that there would be political persons in the case ‘NOVARTIS’. The same information has been provided by Mr. Paulakis who, on February 7, 2018, on the show by Mr. Papadakis, says: "Protected witnesses are members of the "NOVARTIS" which we caught and raided. " Everyone has knowledge. But what is the interest? That great evidence, the FBI audiovisual material from America, never came. And there is only one FBI document in response to Mrs Toulupakis saying: 'You can use these figures for political persons'. And the envelope had absolutely nothing in it. He had three witness testimonies. And you, with these statements, said you'd do a pre-examination committee. In view of all that I described to you and the fact - we will not go into detail, which we will see in the course of the examination of the witnesses, which does not match with procedural elements, which are not asked for specific matters - that, at least on November 6, 2017, political persons had been mentioned, the file would have come to Parliament. And he never came. We therefore consider that we should investigate this evidence, the offences especially of misuse of power, the moral automobile in the abuse of power and the attempt of this crime and a series of crimes that are provoking and offering to commit an offence. Incidentally, the offense became more favourable. Perhaps when the Criminal Code changed, some knew something and the challenge came out - only the reward was left - the breach of duty. On this point too, Mr President, I am correct to the proposal that we have made. Article 224 has been registered in our proposal with the previous wording of falsehood. With the validity of the new Criminal Code, the right thing is: Article 224(1), moral automobile in false testimony. It will therefore also be put to the vote, with this correction which is simply the correct performance of the article that remains in its earlier wording. In conclusion, I believe that with this evidence, we all agree that the case needs to be checked, to see whether former Deputy Minister of Health used Rasputin methods in cooperation with prosecutors, journalists and newspapers, in order to prosecute political people without any evidence. Clearly this may be part of a total outlaw. That is why we are ready to check all the cases reported to be interventions by this Minister. The committee to be set up shall be responsible for procedural matters. However, we must clearly say from the outset that the prosecutor has sent it under Article 86 of the Constitution, so the first assessment of justice is that the offences we investigate relate to the duty of the Minister. Everyone will be considered and - believe me - the hood will not prevent the truth from being rendered true, and that is clear! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have all the procedural possibilities and no ‘gull’ will prevent the truth from being rendered. And those who are in a hurry to get into this process, we are institutional and will only enter the one for whom evidence emerges. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to refer to Mr Papagelopoulos, whom - I am making it clear as a human and a criminal law lawyer all these years - I respect the presumption of innocence in a clear way, and to every person who is here and will speak in a short time, because it is a procedure that has the investigation. On 21 February 2018, Mr. Papagelopoulos, from this Stepma, said that if a file comes, he would ask for a preliminary report. They were in the proceedings of Mr. Samaras, Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Loverdus. What's changed since then? Do you know what's changed? In addition to these lawsuits, we also have two public prosecutors' statements. What made him then seek preliminary recommendation only with message reports from opponents and now that he has two statements from prosecutors, does he not want what he will tell us shortly, which he says in the newspapers too, if it is or is not a craftsman, to come and prove them to the preliminary committee? The statement by Mr Papadoulou was: 'My experience as a prosecutor leads me to the conclusion that this is the biggest scandal'. SYRIZA's colleagues have invoked this man's experience as a public prosecutor and asked you, with three statements of protected witnesses, to make a pre-review committee for ten political persons. I wonder if his experience as a prosecutor when we have this evidence, with two names of his fellow prosecutors' prosecutors, is it not enough to convince you to vote in favour of setting up a pre-review committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u13	The legislative improvement mentioned by Mr Ploris is accepted and I would ask him to take note of the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House forty-one students and students and three teachers attending the Gymnasium Gas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to say that the same tolerance of time will exist for the remaining five rapporteurs. Because some people were looking at me a little weird, tolerance will be for everyone! Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Plois, we ask you and you for a millennial time the same question: When you talk about 'NOVARTIS', will the word'scandal' be heard from your mouth here in this Chamber? Will you finally eclipse it? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What do you think? Tell us. On the question of ‘construction or scandal’ You didn't say a word. You said what the litigation says. Let us not forget that justice is dealing with the case-file which we are debating today and beyond. He's in the Ice Bay disciplinary school. Is this the issue that the House is dealing with, or is there a NOVARTIS scandal and, more generally, a scandal and corruption in health? So I'll tell you what the scandal is and who the real manufacturers are. That's the first. Secondly, the House has set up a Committee of Inquiry into 'Authorization - as its title - the scandals in the field of health' and a pre-review committee on 'NOVARTIS'. Those of you who are younger Members and now you have come to Parliament, do your best to go and get the booklet of our health scandals. There you will see "patent symbols", such as the Kremastino, Surlas, Dora Bakoyannis, the "SPIEGEL", the "DIE PRESSE" of Austria, all "symbols" - to tell you about the corruption of health in Greece, what it cost and what it has contributed to the bankruptcy of the country, so that you do not tell us here other words to love us. That's the point. One is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u15	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u16	I am not saying, of course, that your colleagues have also contributed to these conclusions. What do they say, are these conclusions on the health investigation of scandals? You know what they say? They say the simple thing. The evidence is not derived from any symbol from any unknown source. Factors, inspectors, etc. As regards Mr Sourla, the Secretary-General for Transparency, read his words in the 1213 report, to appall the corruption of pharmaceutical companies in Greece. Mr. Sourlas denounced in 2013 at a special conference in HILTON something unprecedented, which Greek justice still does not investigate beyond the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. Three companies agreed in America with 350 million dollars, because they were following illegal practices and corrupting state officials and we are still waiting for answers. That's what your man, George Sourlas, denounced and handed it over to our committee. Mr. Kremastinos himself, Mr. Rakintzis in five exhibitions in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 analysed one of the causes that led the country to bankruptcy and what was the contribution of corruption to health in the country and with results that have been received from international organisations such as GRECO. And what did you come to tell us now? Cocksucker for these things, jelly! Is that exactly what you want to hide? Not to speak of the Greek Parliament and not to understand what happened in the field of health and what contributed to bankruptcy. That was your point. So let's go to the issue of 'NOVARTIS'. The big and huge question is, is it a serpent or a scandal? You're the maker. Yes, sir. So let's go to the transporters, one by one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u17	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u18	Dimitris Kremastinos on health: "In the last few years, only 17 billion euros have been corruption as a whole in health. And then it hurts to see them. The answer is, unfortunately, yes." And the question: Where's that money, where'd they go? Some must have gotten them. They didn't disappear anyway. Why don't they find them? That is the key question of corruption in health, and that is what we have been investigating for years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And he concludes by tabling these to our committee: "The diagnosis is that our society is ill. The issue of corruption in health is indiscriminately linked to corruption in itself, which at the moment - in 2014 - 'as all domestic, international and European organisations see, is the number one problem and danger of the country's survival. Second conspiracy and maker: Leandros Rakinzis, from 2009 to 2014, Public Administration Inspector, selected by you themselves. In the first pan-Hellenic conference in 2013: "In the health sector, distortions and economic grey areas have developed in recent years, which need to be controlled and relentlessly fought. The waste, the para-economy and corruption have caught a ceiling. Corruption is one of the most important problems facing the health sector today. Those points which raise corruption, waste and fraud must be raised.' It lists a number of categories of companies involved in these things and they are all registered in our practice. But you didn't see the Commission's finding before you came here. It's free, you can get it from office 148! Third great maker and slander: George Sourlas, Secretary General for Transparency and Human Rights until 2014, appointed by you, leading executive of the New Democracy. So, listen, the man had arrived in the unprecedented, he kept sending documents to the public prosecutors and answering any questions until he came to say in a public statement that he couldn't stand, with your own government. In conclusion, when there is political will there is no corruption and when there is corruption, there is no political will and fight against it. It is time for a new political system and if this does not happen, the violent uprising is inevitable, because the sums brought to it by the inspectors were gloomy. And these sums said by our ministers, EUR 23 billion 'black' money in the medicine and about EUR 85 billion in the medicine, 24%, which Nicoludis once said, was really true. Top inspectors came to our committee and said they were real and approached and that they are such numbers. So figure it out. We're talking tens of billions. And we're looking to find out what happened to the country's bankrupt! Add to all of this the 55 billion "black" money over the last decades in armaments, for the Greek people to understand why the country went bankrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u19	You're in the wrong place, in the wrong time, off the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u20	Okay, we're in the wrong time. So let's go to the litigation that comes today. So what, a scandal or a scandal? We expect all the parties to answer it. The position of the Greek people must be clear today. What do you think? Is there a health scandal? Is there a "NOVARTIS" scandal? That's the point. Let all the rest be found by justice. Because as regards what Mr Ploris said before, I have the following to say. The two statements by Mr Angelis and Mrs. Ryku all remembered them after they left the post they held. Ms. Ryku two years later she recalled that she was pressed by Papagelopoulos, while when she resigned in April 2017, with a long-skelled statement, she was talking about huge corruption of state officials and black money in health of 28 million. Look for her statement. And for two years no one has been dealing with Mrs Ryku's statement. They are now involved, because they did not find them well even in the journalist who did research journalism. Even Yianna Papadakou, who has been involved in health research for decades and her writings are amazing and make use of them by prosecutors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u21	Tell us why he didn't deal with 2004-2009.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u22	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u23	The list of packages is too long. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You don't want to hear. It's okay. Besides blindness, there's deafness. That's a basic thing. As you wish. It's your thing. Your instruments are yours. Set it up as you like. I'll say what I want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u24	Slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u25	Why, Mr. Hatzidakis, are you outraged?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u26	Slower to understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u27	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u28	Who are the manufacturers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u29	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u30	So I'm adding more garners. Listen to a question from November 2011 in the Greek Parliament. You'll understand who did it. "Since the decades have seen publicity complaints of mismanagement and destruction of public money in the wider health area. In hospitals, insurance agencies, reports from administrations, ministers and others, who spoke about 'turgicals', 'piranhas' and incompetent administrations of health bodies and their political leaders'. I would like to stress: 'they political leaders'! Below: "Crime has been committed all these years and has been executed for many years by unexplained..." I do not say the other sentence. Who was it? It is a question signed by Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, Mr Aygeakis, Mr Markoyannakis, Mr Kostas Kiltides and George Kontoyannis. And he's a health worker. I'm also adding to the captors. Mr. Loverdos will know. When we first discussed the case-file, there was a post by DER SPIEGEL and DIE PRESSE in Austria, which had a tribute to the biggest scandal of all times in the country. It was the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. And I will tell you later why he said this 'DER SPIEGEL'. But, before that, let's go a little bit to your document. Let us assess it now and a little legally. Mr. Flouris, you're legal and good at what I hear. We're starting with the last offenses. I'm leaving the abuse of power. The abuse of power is very well aware that it is not being really dragged into a breach of duty. It's offended.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u31	He'll absorb it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u32	So what do you put it in? You know the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u33	Because if the abuse doesn't come out...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u34	Most of it? One is the offense.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u35	You put it too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u36	So I'm telling you this. So let's see the abuse of power. What Mr Angelis himself says when he filed the Samaras, Venizelos, etc.Huh? He filed them ten months ago by the D.A. Why? Because the prosecutor says, Mr. Plearis, that the existence of a simple and only possibility of committing criminal offences obliges him to prosecute him. Not to send to the parliament, to prosecute criminal law. It's just a possibility. Mrs. Tulupaki, what's the matter with Mrs. Prosecutor of Corruption? They had an FBI document, three witnesses in America, three witnesses here in Greece, documents and findings of committees and health services. And you want to tell us that this is not just a possibility of sending it to Parliament! That's what you're saying. This is a misuse! Hold it. Who's gonna be ridiculed in the end, we'll see! Let's go to the second offense: Challenge and offer. That's what he wants. Do you mention it somewhere in your document that there's even a suspicion of pay? What are you throwing it here, in the air? Why do you say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u37	What reward?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u38	That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u39	What reward?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u40	Anyone who gives promises a reward.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u41	What reward?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u42	Any kind. Let's not talk about this right now. Now we're going to the other big crime. Moral autopsy. I challenge you, Mr. Plearis and Mr. Georgiades, because you blame Mr. Pappelgopoulos... [[Noise in the Chamber]] To understand what we're saying, I'm talking about the moral automation of perjury.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u43	Mr. Lappa, don't have a dialogue. When you ask them, they answer and interrupt your mind. Don't have a dialogue. Please address this House, not faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u44	By charge of moral autocracy in psoriacy, you obviously mean the falsehood of the protected witnesses, if I understand well. So because we have an archiving document and a legal document, I would ask the House and the President very much, to ask Arios Igos for an archiving decision to see, because it has a rationale for witnesses as well. What's he saying? Are they liars? Are they honest? Do they have any basis on what they testify to? Let's see where your moral automobile is based on perjury.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u45	The false testimony.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u46	Understand? We get it. It's understandable. So what are you up to? I told you that there isn't a breach of duty. So the question is one. So I'll read to you what Mr. Angelis says when he put it in the file...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u47	The perjury is correcting her. False statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u48	Same thing is, Mr. Tasoula. Legally, it does not differentiate the relationship of the witness's testimony to the charge of false testimony or perjury. Same thing. The composition is the same. Now let's go to Mr. Angelis. So Mr. Angelis investigated the documents, took the orders and ruled out. It should be the case for the public prosecutor's judgement at the stage of the start of a criminal procedure, which was not possible with the above, she says, Mrs Toulopakis, so she was right to send it here. What changed from then on to today? A new statement by Mr Angelis and Mrs Ryku, who was asked to report two and a half years after what she did not say on her resignation. In any case, Mrs Ryku's statement has even hinted against a journalist who is doing years of research journalism. Even Yanna Papadakou bothered her, which I would say, as long as at least the years at least she's ministering to journalism - we all read it and listen to it - we only have positively for her side, we didn't hear anything bad. So when the reporter goes to the D.A., what's he gonna do? He won't ask him? Is that bad? What's she relied on? I can't understand it. In any case, gentlemen, these are the documents and that is the reality. To finish, you know that in February 2018 the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow had come and sent Mr. Kontonis the case-file of "NOVARTIS", i.e. the Samaras and Venizelos to the House. You have done absolutely nothing since February 2018, despite the fact that the file was here in the House. You will tell me that you were in the opposition and remembered now, eighteen months later, to come and make the request. And then you didn't have the number thirty?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u49	Then we had statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u50	You had the number thirty, Mr. Pleari. But you didn't. I'll tell you why you didn't. With all that you are doing, you want one thing, to succumb and disorientate public opinion, about the basic 'NOVARTIS' scandal. You won't make it, do you know why? Because today, in twenty countries, NOVARTIS is controlled and paid lingerie fines, accepting that it follows illegal practices and corrupts state officials in twenty states. A day ago, China closed its case with 95 million fines. I will tell you in which other states and I shall close, Mr President. So, for NOVARTIS, I tell you that a fine of $310 million was imposed a while ago for the financing of three doctors, from NOVARTIS in the United States. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Three doctors! The number is important! I'll tell you the other ones below. You'll hear them down. That's the one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u51	Yeah, but you didn't check them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u52	Secondly - not to forget - we propose to you, Mr Plouris, but also to everyone, to ask the Prosecutor of the Ice Arcia to reveal all Mr Papaggiopoulou's telephone conversations with Mrs Toulopaki and Mrs Ryku. We're telling you as a Minority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u53	So there were conversations?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u54	We have nothing to fear at all. You have to hide. We have nothing to fear. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Listen: For three doctors 311 million! Listen to this: In 2010, NOVARTIS pays 422 million to the U.S., because some pharmacies in the U.S. corrupted pharmacists to promote its own products first. In 2016 another 25 million on the same subject. In the same year, as I read, a fine of 125 million was imposed, because the same company was following illegal practices in China. The US Ministry of Justice imposed a new fine of $390 million on "NOVARTIS" for bribery in its pharmacies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In Turkey itself, 85 million. In South Korea itself, 49 million. In India there is a huge judicial dispute between the state of India and NOVARTIS for a medicine that had alpha value, while the active substance granted it by the Indian state at a price 100 times lower. In Italy the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u55	What have you been doing for so many years?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u56	I'll tell you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u57	Close, Mr. Lappa. You've gone far beyond your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u58	I'm closing, Mr. President. The FBI document No 181674043/17-12-2017 states: ‘The media companies were used by NOVARTIS to pay bribes and money laundering. The smaller media companies and the ‘PUBLIC HELLAS’ had joined the corruption plan. The Guardian approved the reasons', and so on. 'Government officials were paid to register new products on the market'. I'm not saying any names or anything. ‘NOVARTIS’ document. And one last thing to close, in the same finding of the corruption prosecutor, there are transcripted talks of the leaders of "NOVARTIS". Arnout Ploos van Amstel says...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u59	Finish, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u60	I shall finish, Mr President. I won't read it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u61	Whatever else you have, testify to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u62	I'll testify to the committee. It matters. From the remembranced talks in Mrs Toulopakis' case and conclusion, it seems that all the leaders of "NOVARTIS" are celebrating their talks and applauding why they managed to put the noose in the neck of the Greek governments and while the expenditure collapsed, their drugs were going up. That's the scandal, and that's why you're silent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u63	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, the feeling that I have had since Mr Lappa's speech is that with such defence I do not see things as well for Mr Papagelopoulos. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] The second is that on Sunday I see SYRIZA's crew sharing icons of the other pharmaceutical companies, considered "holy," and sharing them outside the churches to worship them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u65	That's funny. We laughed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u66	He laughs better who laughs last. We are discussing the proposal to set up a pre-examination for illegal acts by Mr Papaggiopoulou, Deputy Minister of Justice of the SYRIZA Government, with accusations that, as expressed in the proposal, do not concern negligence or errors. They are heavy and all the parties, all the Members of Parliament have to say 'yes' to the committee's recommendation, as we said 'yes' a few days ago in the lifting of immunity from Andreas Loverdos, which he requested. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Let's all put it clearly. Yes, to examine the major charges relating to the moral automobile industry for abuse of power by certain prosecutors, Mrs Toulupakis, who is already under control by the Marios Ice, but also the establishment of the outlawing circuit for the purpose of extermination of political opponents. These are not political but facts, signed statements by senior judiciaries and persons who have served in the highest positions of the Greek state and of the European Union. Yeah, well, no spins in the examination by the Change Movement. The debate, however, does not take place in a historical void. Greece has experienced ten years of crisis, and the citizens who have suffered it have been bombed with many lies about the causes and those responsible and are still looking for the truth. The grey propaganda, which was designed to serve political purposes, came to the point of presenting the results as causes and responsible for those who fought to deal with it. In other words, the fire presents ashes and arsonists present firefighters. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I accept the saying: 'If we do not know the truth about the past, we do not have a future', but we also say 'We look to the future, only when we protect institutions and values'. I will not go into historical examples of the preparations that are there, but I shall not go into the dirty '89' that SYRIZA has once again played with the New Democracy. However, I shall refer to the recent past for a clear answer to what happened to the crisis and who have worked to deal with it and to protect the institutions and, above all, to the independence of justice, which was literally ragged by those who were politically committed to safeguarding it. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of public pharmaceutical expenditure from funds and hospitals between 2003 and 2018, with stations in 2010, 2012, 2014, is a good illustration of the country's course and what happened before the crisis. I shall table a chart illustrating this development of the pharmaceutical expenditure and I would ask colleagues to be given it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is now undeniable that the derailment of the period before 2009 was the main cause of the crisis paid by the Greek people. The derailment of the pharmaceutical cost of funds and hospitals was very characteristic: From 2.9 billion in 2003 it was launched at 6.4 billion in 2009. I am tabling the chart of public pharmaceutical expenditure as it has evolved in 2004-2009 and it has cost the Greek people an additional 12 384 000 000. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And yes, that is the scandal, Mr Lappa, which you did not say a word, which you made a garrison not just as a person, but your party, which had four and a half years' power, which set up committees to examine the medicine, which found nothing to say about that period and the EUR 12.4 billion. which the Greek people paid with blood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u67	You didn't read it well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u68	You're accountable, Mr. Lappa, and you and your party. What did you do? You'll apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u69	We were ruling!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u70	What have you done to examine the more general policy of relaxation and lack of control over the derailment period, which served as a greenhouse for unfair practices of companies and health professionals, often with the tolerance of insured persons? What have you done to examine the abolition of the list and its impact on prescription medicines in 2005, on the minimum and incomplete price reductions with a system that has to be modernised, on the large part of the high-cost medicines that have passed on from the funds to the pharmacy with the maintenance of the large profit rates of the pharmacy? What have you done about the inertia of taking measures and introducing prescribing tools, despite the rise in public pharmacy expenditure? What did you do about the non-retirement of the MUSYFA list provided by law in 2006? What did you do about the non-recovery of rebate for the years 2008 and 2009? I come in 2009-2010, in the explosion of the crisis, because they preceded them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u71	With what government? The one you colluded with?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u72	It was with the one that, as I told you, the dirty '89' you set up together, was with it, which was a key part of governance with you since '15'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u73	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u74	It's below that. Don't be impatient. You'll hear it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u75	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u76	Calm down, Mrs. Baguea.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u77	Ma'am, along with the ANELs, a large part of the extreme right, Papagelopoulos and the periologists, and you don't know? Go, ma'am, and find out who you've colluded for four and a half years in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u78	He doesn't have a name...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u79	Mrs. Baja! Do not interrupt the speaker. Go on, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u80	In closing the period of derailment of the Karamanlic New Democracy, Mrs Bagea, Mr Papagelopoulos and all your people who have incorporated into the SYRIZA, we are going through the eruption of the crisis and the later period. In 2009-2010, when Greece was in the vortex of the crisis with a European Union without a support mechanism, our prolongation, without accounting for political costs, made the response to the causes of the crisis and the household and not the hunting of those responsible a priority. They were responsible, but the other was the priority for Greece at that time. I would remind you of the climate of the times and the lack of national understanding. Half of them were struggling to deal with the crisis, and the other half blocked them, accused them and slandered them. Allies to the second, the established interests that were shaken, because after the first numb actions there was a real will and an effective plan by the PASOK government and Andreas Loverdos for changes and households. In four years, the annual pharmacological expenditure was lowered than it was in 2003. From 6.4 billion up to 2009, it gradually decreased until 2014 to 2.5 billion, saving 12 384 000 euros. I submit the household diagram and savings by 2014. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The household was achieved with 12 structural measures of 2010-2012, which continued to be implemented with continuous control and introduction of modern tools. I remind you. The creation of the EEA and the integration of civil medicinal products into the Ministry of Health. The e-prescription and continuous improvement. The introduction of the therapeutic protocols. The implementation of the positive list of medicines and its inclusion at the cost of pharmaceutical companies. The creation of the forgotten negative list. You remember that. The introduction and application of the refund measure in different forms. The new invoicing system based on lower prices in the European Union. The invoicing of medicines legally and on time. The continuous review of the list of high-cost medicines with EPPO control and hospitals. ‘ESY.net’, the bilingual accounting system, hospital balances and the integration of ELSTAT into the European system of accounts. The reduction in the wholesale profit of companies and the reduction in pharmacy. The new system of control by the EOF. All this, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that it has not been done in any way. They were made with conflicts with all kinds of interests, both legal and non-legislative, and mainly with a stable participation of the insured for at least 2010-2012. As expected, the affected economic interests have not been done. They met with political purposes. They held both the 2012 elections and both the 2015 elections. PASOK, Loverd and others were in the midst of so - called informational media based on the affected interests. And they say: 'We accept all this with the household, but they do not exclude the charges'. Mr. Lappas said so. The charges, Mr. Lappa, have already collapsed. They come to the House, to have something to do with the bakers and the proof of the collapse will be done in accordance with the procedure already requested by Andreas Loverdes and it was not hidden, as others who make eggs, behind Article 86 and something else. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] In 2015, SYRIZA comes and forgets - what remembrance these people have, my child - to revaluate price reductions, but he did not forget to impose 6% contribution on main and ancillary pensions that until then they did not have. 2016-2017 begins political targeting. Then, in 2017, we file press reports from me, Andreas Loverdos and Eve Christophilopoulos at the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. We weren't invited or invited or phoneed, son. Nothing! Then I found out who charged her, and I understood. In 2016-2017, the political targeting begins as an alibi for the followed policy of SYRIZA, who collaborates harmoniously with the ANELs, the far right-wing, part of the right and the perpetrators. They are looking for an alibi for the following policy, the third memorandum, the excess, overtaxation, social spending cuts. One is honest, he does not hide it: 'If we do not put some people in prison, we will not win the elections'. It was a political purpose that had to be served at all costs. Thus, on the occasion of the investigation into the violation of American law by the unfair practices of "NOVARTIS", companies and health professionals, it became the deal and the scenario of the dark plan was set up, with alleged political bribes, pseudo-witnesses, settled hoodkeepers and people who have affected economic interests. Mr. Papagelopoulos, in February 2018, after a meeting in Maximou on “Life on planet Mars”, spoke of the biggest scandal of the Greek state, asking everyone but others. Is it possible to investigate the scandal of the medicine of the 2004-2009 Caramanelian period, with well-known and given its political position and relationships? Some naives thought: "Now he's symbol. He even replaced Mr.Nicoloudis resigned - question about the resignation of Nikoloudis - in order to make use of his experience from the period when he was Commander of the CYP on Karamanlis, to shine the truth." Negligent. The answer to the true content of the statements came after a long time, with the disclosure of the statements and complaints of the senior judges and other officials for his interventions, the manipulation of justice in illegal acts and the establishment of the wrongdoing he would take on. The characteristic dialogue: 'Didn't you even send the case-file 'NOVARTIS' to the House?' I replied to him: 'Minister, I do not persecute anyone without evidence'. "He then..." he said, "...he said to me with anger: you have and you are neglecting! Send it and the following others will take care of it." When I didn't tell him I wasn't this school, he answered: "Hold then and you'll see if your school's good for you." So that night, outside of Maximos, Mr. Papagelopoulos made public the delusional title of a device that he set up to prosecute ten political opponents and eliminate specific ones. You of the SYRIZA, who argued that the testimonies of false witnesses, hoods and people who had economic interests unjustly and unjustly affected by the policies of the household, or who won from the policies of the household, should be considered, you who said with sophisticated kindness and supposedly subtleness "How can we do? To go ahead with the investigation and, after the ten are innocent, will they be entitled', what position are you taking exactly today? Will you refuse to examine the serious complaints of the highest judicial and high officials regarding the setting-up of the political process and the functioning of the wrongdoing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u81	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u82	I shall conclude, Mr President. Today will you follow the goals of the leading group, which, one day, claims that the parliament should not bury the pleadings and the other puts party discipline so that you do not vote? Don't you want to help the whole truth come out in the light? One explanation is: it feeds you the lie and protects the darkness if you don't vote. The Change Movement will pursue with all its powers the full investigation and performance of responsibilities, dissuading also those who in or around New Democracy promote sacrificing, "Mutual Benefit Dispositions" i.e. for coverts or archives and atonement victims. In fact, Minister of Justice, when will you explain to us why you recommended on 3 August the amendment that de facto serves the manufacturers? When are you going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u83	Close, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u84	So the insult of the institutions is so heavy that it must not be left unanswered. When the rule of law and the independence of justice are at stake, we cannot hide and silence. It is the duty of the House to investigate in depth who designed it, who carried it out it, what means and methods and, above all, what it was intended for. I firmly believe, Mr President, that democracy, justice and truth always win!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u85	I note that each speaker is in competition with the previous speaker on who is going to go a little further in time. It is a good request that the tolerance we have just said at the outset should not be abused. My colleague from the JRC has the floor, Mr Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. If anyone today was attending the morning session and watching the evening, he would see two different pictures. At the morning meeting New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL were a beloved family. Why was she a beloved family? Because they had to serve the sacred and loyal bodies of the system, they had to serve the interests of capital together, they had to implement and accept the European Union's policy, in this case, for the further liberalisation of rail transport. And no harm to a cat. Together! Now in the debate here we have an acidification. For what purpose? To pluralize the world, to create camps within the people and separate them, to cover the existence of a huge agreement between these three parties. And this agreement is the continuation of anti-grassroots, class policy, the policy imposed by the European Union, the policy that meets the needs of capital, the anti-grassroots policy which makes the position of the people more and more difficult. Mr President, you are well aware that the JRC since the debate on the NOVARTIS scandal, has raised the issues that could possibly contribute both to the settlement of the case and to the performance of any political and criminal responsibilities, where there were no fraudulent ones. Because we have met too many inquiries and pre-review committees that have not made anything at all, they have just cover up the issues. In this respect, the JRC, in February 2018, argued that the ‘NOVARTIS’ scandal should be fully clarified, that the then pre-review committee was obliged to do substantial research and should not be confined to procedural issues. At the same time, we have made it clear that substantial research involves not only the appearance of all witnesses, including witnesses who are protected. We have also made it clear that the effective investigation into the JRC also means exploring the root causes of these scandals in the drug field, as well as the overall examination of all these causes that have brought them to the surface, which are not other than the most severe competition between multinationals, who are literally'slain' about market shares and profits. Because for the JRC, ladies and gentlemen, the great, the truly huge scandal is on the one hand that there are the enormous potential available today because of the development of productive forces, the development of technology and science, and on the other hand it is the least possible to satisfy the popular needs of the wider populace layers that live under conditions of tolerance. This latitude between possibilities and the degree of satisfaction is growing. And it's not just the crisis. It's not just Greek. It is on the one hand the huge accumulation of wealth in less and less hands, on the other hand, the living conditions of the people's strata in our country and elsewhere. It is, in other words, the system you serve the basic scandal. In this context, the monopolies and multinationals are willing to acquire, in order to gain more and more market shares. Besides, "NOVARTIS" does what other multinationals do in the drug field. He didn't do anything different. The basis of the scandal, that is, the commercialisation of popular needs, the marketing of health and medicine, the fierce and ruthless competition between multinationals. He was stressed here by various speakers, what was the huge waste that existed in the field of public health and the drug. But in 2009, when it arrived at the peak, they claim, the public health expenditure in Greece was 1% less than the European Union average. The average public expenditure in 2009 in the European Union was 7.8% and in Greece it was only 6.8%. The consequences of the anti-grassrooted cuts in public health expenditure today are that this expenditure has collapsed in our country at 5%, while in the European Union it remains at 7.8%. What's the effect of that? The consequence is: Private financing of health expenditure in Greece is such that Greece is today as the fifth country in the world. In other words, the private financing of expenditure ranks Greece in the fifth world. Who's the first? Of course the United States. They follow Mexico, Korea, Chile and then Greece. In 2009, private expenditure was only 19.2%. In 2015, with the measures of the PASOK and New Democracy Governments private expenditure was launched at 33.7% and SYRIZA reached 45%. So here's what the evolution is. What the previous speaker said that we housed and saved money is, in other words, transferring the burden from state funds to people's pockets. That's what New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA did. In other words, you have carried a very large part of the pharmaceutical expenditure into the pockets of the people's layers, thus shifting that weight. The result is wide popular strata to pay expensively for access to health and medicine, but at the same time there are very large obstacles, which determine their access to them according to their economic potential. So, nowadays, we really see hard trade wars taking place between states, such as the United States, the European Union, Germany, China and others, expressing the ruthless competition between multinational companies, multinational groups in various sectors, and with very much the risk that these trade wars will not just remain in the economic and commercial sphere but extend to other sectors as well. Who really believes that the emergence of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal was not related to the discomfort of the United States by the competition of German pharmaceutical companies? It is competition that develops in the pharmaceutical industry and in other sectors. So it is naive to believe that all of these, such as the United States of America, have been taken by pain to combat corruption? Are the United States interested in corruption? We see this as interesting, killing people in Syria, Libya and a number of other areas. So hard and ruthless competition, this war, this interest in uncovering scandals, have no reason but to distribute profits, how to share the markets. And that's why each other's laundry is taking off each other's laundry. And at the end, they all do so, when they succeed in bringing a compromise, which, of course, is always temporary until the commercial and economic knives come back. This is the objective basis for an endless donation and reception between groups and governments. And that's where corruption and scandals bloom. Now how it evolved, of course, then history with the pre-review committee is well known. Two or three points we want to remind you. Firstly, with the main responsibility of the SYRIZA government majority at the time, the case was closed in the pre-examination committee, without any witness and evidence being examined - which existed - without any effective investigation of the case by Parliament. Because this investigation could help speed up justice investigation. So the case of the pre-examination committee evolved into a sterile bipartite controversy which was convenient for both SYRIZA and the New Democracy. On the one hand, SYRIZA will maintain the sword of the fight against corruption and the rotten old political system, making use of a real scandal, but at the same time refuses the actual investigation of the case by Parliament and continue the same policy as New Democracy and KINAL in the field of health and medicine, and on the other hand New Democracy and KINAL will denounce the SYRIZA Government for unfair interference and inaction in justice with a view to the spiral of their officials, without, of course, speaking - as now - about the substance of the case. The JRC has denounced the practice of a government majority in SYRIZA, which has closed the way to investigate the scandal from the House and has left very early - you will remember it - from the work of the pre-review committee, when the majority refused to proceed with the examination of witnesses and witnesses and closed the case accordingly. We also recall that, for the same reasons, our party has left the relevant votes in plenary session. Of course there are, and there will be intervention by the government in the lead of justice. After all, it is no coincidence that all these parties that have exercised the majority of the government are suited to the choice of the leadership of justice by the government, because this choice of leadership by the government in question can be a lever to exert any pressure and interference in the field of justice. Let us remind you here - opening a parenthesis - that the JRC in the debate on the Revision of the Constitution had called, as it had done in the past, for this way of choosing the leadership of justice to be changed, in the direction of choosing the leadership not to be made by the government, but rather for it to be elected, that is, the leadership of justice, by a broader elective body. But the JRC's proposal was rejected with many praise. Therefore, all these aspects of independent justice are strongly hypocritical of whomever they are heard and, of course, used as an alibi, as a tool in the bipolar fights. With the opportunity to remind and say a word about the law on the responsibility of the Ministers. The JRC in its recent constitutional review had called for the complete abolition of the article of the Constitution and the relevant law, so that all obstacles, which prevented the exercise of criminal prosecution against the Ministers, could be treated as other citizens. But you also rejected this proposal from the JRC. Mr President, I conclude with this: what now do we have? We have the New Democracy proposal to set up a new preliminary committee, namely a simple reversal of roles in the current circumstances. The New Democracy today from the position of the government majority calls for a preliminary committee to be set up to investigate what? Unfair interference in the work of the investigating authorities by the Deputy Minister of Justice, unfair interventions made by the New Democracy, when investigating the ‘NOVARTIS’ scandal. Nowhere, however, in New Democracy's proposal, there is talk of the fact that the NOVARTIS scandal will continue to be investigated and investigated by the pre-examination committee only for unfair interference. Its proposal therefore has absolutely nothing to do with the need for effective investigation of the substance of the scandal, but it serves other objectives, namely in the context of the general bipartisan controversy and the more general processes, which are being carried out in order to restructure and reform the urban political system. It serves the systematic effort made by the New Democracy to obscure the character of government policy, anti-liberal, class, anti-liberal, revealing relief and with the multi-nomous development plan, which is an anti-government escapade, as well as the draft state budget for 2020 that maintains its anti-language, classic character. In other words, as the SYRIZA government has done in the past, as the SYRIZA government has already done on the road to effective investigation of the NOVARTIS scandal by Parliament and has exploited it for its own particular party pursuits, the same, but the same is trying today to do the government majority of the New Democracy. From this point of view, of course, it is hypocritical and SYRIZA's attitude, which is now calling for effective investigation of the case when it did not do so as a government majority. This tactic - we say clearly - as a JRC cannot legitimise it, which is why we will not take part in the voting process - not in the debate, in the vote - in setting up the committee of inquiry. If the Committee of Inquiry is set up, which seems to be the case, we will take part in the work, reintroducing our position for full investigation of the case by examining all the elements and all the witnesses with no exception, nor the so-called witnesses, to examine all of them. We warn again that if this does not happen, we in toys and polluters will not play and each one should assume his responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u87	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to inform you that Mr Georgios Kamines is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad, from 9-10-2019 to 11-10-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u88	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Constantine Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that we have returned to normality. We were a lot of people at the beginning, but now we've come back to a normality. We are here today to decide whether there are any grounds to set up a special committee to consider any responsibilities of Mr Papagelopoulos in the well-known case 'NOVARTIS'. We are here because with thirty signatures of Members of the New Democracy, we have received a parliamentary mandate to discuss this issue. An assumption no doubt very important, no doubt. So this gathering of thirty signatures obliges us - and good does - to discuss it. What we've been asking for for for three months. Thirty signatures are also important - and I would say for even more important or just as important, if you would like, by the Members of the New Democracy - to discuss in Parliament Mr Kotzia's possible responsibilities for the unfamiliar Prespecies Agreement. It seems that, for the Members of the New Democracy or, if you like, for the Macedonian Members of the New Democracy, this case is not as important or even important as bringing together these thirty signatures. I would first like to make it clear as a representative at the moment of the Greek Solution that we are not here to replace justice. Our aim is to discuss politically a case that has not yet come to light if it is scandalous or political. Scandal or construction? At some point, about twenty-five or thirty days ago, we were reminded by Mr Kegeroglu how much the tone had risen in the 'NOVARTIS' case, how every day we watched with the breath cut the high tons from one side and suddenly the spirits calmed down. Mr. Georgiadis calmed down, Mr. Tsipras came out of the kandros, and it all got normal. Our aim is to discuss politically a case that, as I said, we have not yet made clear - and that is the bad thing for the Greek citizen - whether it is a construction or a scandal. It is, however, a case involving active political persons. That is why the Greek Parliament has to deal with this case. The people tell us: "Better put your eye on you than the name!" It's almost certain that your name has come out. We have been seen from what we read in the litigation about possible offences. And I say: moral automation for abuse of power, crime challenge and offer to commit a crime, moral automation and violation of duty, moral automation, fraudulent service infidelity, passive bribery and bribery. I say it again and I stress it. We are not responsible for judging whether or not this indictment is correct. In any case, however, we cannot close our eyes in a case which has caused damage to the public with unlawful fees, amounting to several billion euros at the expense of the Greek citizen, of course. All on the back of the seriously ill Greek taxpayer. As long as we of course spend time - and even now that's what we do - as traditionally happens in recent years, the following happens: First, the money must have been wings. We would never be able to track them and let alone return them to the Greek funds. Secondly, "NOVARTIS" is throwing a party with profits, since for every 10 cents of the euro, we have said so several times from the Step of the House - "NOVARTIS" was earning coarse money. Thirdly, hundreds of doctors were drinking and drinking in the health of suckers. Fourthly, it is unknown that the consequences of this chowl on the thousands of patients who not only hit fate, but this circuit sacrificed them as new "Figures" on the altar of unfair and illegal profit. Unfortunately, the whole debate has lost its meaning and now all we can do is disorientate public opinion. You drop the ball on the stands, in short, we deal with the possibility of responsibility or not of Mr. Papagelopoulos, without being able to give answers to the Greeks for all the above. Do not, however, consider that the Greek Solution believes that the debate on the responsibilities of political persons is of minor importance. In any case, otherwise, when this process is completed, we should be clear about any decision we make. We need to speak truths to the Greeks and be able to justify whatever decision we make, whether we send the case to justice or our choice is for Rasputin and the rest to enter the shelf. Caesar's wife shouldn't be, but it must be honest. The same applies to politicians, and unfortunately we have given Greek citizens the right to believe that the political system is not clean and that we are all boiling in the same case. This impression has been created before, when the three of you who have ruled since the Migration and then created all these evils for our country. I personally do not accept that the whole political system is dirty. I have a demand from myself at first, and from the National Representation, then, when this process is completed, that any decision should be crystallised, should not be called into question, no shadows. This must be the objective: the case of NOVARTIS must reach a definitive solution rather than a definitive hood. Of course, the presumption of innocence is a fundamental principle of our criminal law. We must respect it, as we respect the principle of fair trial. Above all, we respect the principle of seeking truth and that is the point. But that is the job of justice and only justice. But justice which we all invoke here today, which, in the case-file, is alleged to be involved in its work. Of course we must shed plenty of light on these suspicions. That is what we need to pursue, if we want to have a modern state, a rule of law, with clear discretion. If, of course, what is actually being said about the involvement of policies in the work of justice is true, it is certain that we should also consider as citizens of that State, as well as as as members of the Greek Parliament. And we have to, because very simply such suspicions work as a time bomb on the foundations of the democratic culture. In this context, the Greek Solution firmly believes that no one is above the law. On the other hand, everyone is equal before the law and must be judged by the courts, without any exception, without any special treatment. The criminal responsibility of the ministers should therefore be similar to the criminal responsibility of the citizens. Clear things. In cases where it is in the public interest, with social goods and with the management of public money, it is therefore necessary that the authorities responsible for political leadership be tried by criminal courts, such as every Greek citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous House, unfortunately, did not consider that Article 86 of the Constitution to be revised. However, the Greek Solution even now in the Revision of the Constitution, which is under way, clearly advocates that Article 86 of the Constitution should be abolished in full, as it closes the eye to the impunity of the ministers. However, no government has dared to do more to date, despite the fact that in the past too many times there have been opportunities to revise the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Heta for limiting time. We are completing the first cycle of the main rapporteurs with Mrs Bakadima from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u91	Mr President, may I then ask for the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u92	Yeah, I'll give you the floor. Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the request put forward by thirty Members of the Governing Party concerning the setting up and carrying out of a preliminary examination for Dimitris Papaggiopoulou, formerly Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. We are therefore called upon to decide whether or not to set up a committee. We have very clearly to do with the continuation of the NOVARTIS case and another episode of it. Now the New Democracy wants and attempts to haunt the argument that every interconnector with the case is the arrest and orchestration of Mr. Papagelopoulos himself. This request is justified on the grounds that, in the performance of his duties, he intervened in the work of justice by asking the competent prosecutors handling the case of "NOVARTIS" to pass the case to the House and wished to be informed and then, of course, to carry out evaluations of the case-file and even using a public step by making it public, before the case-file itself was opened. That's all according to Mrs. Helen Ryku's statements. On this point and before I go ahead with presenting the position of Mera25 on the subject, you will allow me to point out that according to the articles concerning the preliminary examination of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Articles 153 to 158, in particular in accordance with Rule 156 and paragraph 4 thereof, ‘the preliminary examination shall have all the responsibilities of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor when he acts in a preliminary examination’. As MERA25, we consider it incomprehensible for Parliament to function as a judiciary while it is a purely legislative body. Members of Parliament exercise legislative power and must neither be interrogators and prosecutors. It's not part of their role. Nor were they voted on by the Greek people to investigate court cases, to proceed to criminal investigations, to examine witnesses, to collect evidence, to write judicial findings and indictments. By transforming Members into a joint legislative body - judiciary - there is no doubt that the proposed separation of powers is envisaged and that the very nature of the findings resulting from the committees of inquiry and preliminary examination, since the findings themselves have a dual role, are both political and legal, have evidence of both. The specific breakthrough in the distinction of powers is demonstrated by something else. From the fact that each party represented in the committee is issuing a different conclusion each time, according to the predetermined party conclusion, using the information collected in due course with a view to supporting and supporting a category that has already been decided. Therefore, the possibility of prosecution or not is up to the objective judicial crisis, as it should, but left to micro-political interests and party norms. Furthermore, it is not possible, as representatives of the citizens and as those who legislate and define the country's course, to allow and close the eyes to the conversion of the House into a public prosecutor's authority, leaving any material to be found through this procedure to be used purely for propaganda and interrogation purposes between political opponents, but also to feed the media with mainly parapolitical material, and by following the classical tactics of the attack on political opponents, hitting them in the field of moral integrity. At this point I would like to refer to the proposal by Mera25 - and you will understand why I am doing so - to create a body of prosecuting political and business crime, aimed at effectively combating corruption and the inter-political staff, but also the domestic oligarchy, which tends to be rich at the expense of the Greek people who are struggling under the magnification of the strict austerity policies imposed on it. Of course, the creation of such a body would put an end to the practice that has been followed up so far, and it concerns the setting up of such committees of inquiry and preliminary committees and the conversion of Members to prosecutors. This House will be fully independent from the executive. It will be made up of public prosecutors to ensure any action that requires public prosecutors to intervene or warrant, for example a bank account opening warrant, as well as qualified police personnel who will have the necessary knowledge of new technologies, data collection and analysis and - most importantly of all - the necessary financial knowledge to monitor cash flow and money paths in each case. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we will have the full distinction of powers, as will ensure that Parliament maintains its legislative status only. At the same time and always in accordance with the programme commitment of Mera25 to full democratic justice control, the proposed House will be under the supervision of the Justice Committee, which is a Parliamentary College of Curators and Elected Citizens, which, according to our election programme, will consist of ninety people, two thirds of whom will be deputies and one third elected citizens - representatives of the parties, always according to their electoral power. The judges will come half of the general population and half of the judiciary. So we believe that the independence of justice is essential, since it is democratically apparent from a fully representative body. Returning now to the request which we are discussing today and after all the above, Mera25 will vote 'the present', refusing to take part in the once again attempting to break the distinction of powers which it only manages is to degrade Parliament and turn Members into judges and jurors. We refuse to take part in a process that has no real reason to exist and all that nourishes is propaganda and micro-political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Mrs Bakoyannis has asked for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u95	Mr President, my dear colleague, Mr Lappas, has given me the honour to refer twice to a question I had tabled in 2011. Mr Colleague, if I could re-submit it, you could sign it, too, I would put it back to you. Because the issue of the scandal in health is a real one, as are the overpriceds, doctors, bags of the ESS and all that, of course, do not honor anyone who served this place. That is why, Mr Colleague, we are addressing you. Because although a well-known lawman, you would have been cut out in the report on your protagonists. And you would have been cut, because instead of actually doing an investigation as a SYRIZA, which you were a new government, that you could have done an in-depth investigation and looked at the bad texts in the field of health, you used the title to smash your political opponents. You hung them in the handkerchiefs and made the mistake of escaping you that the majority of those who hung on the handkerchiefs, such as Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Georgiadis and others, were the ministers most likely to reduce the pharmaceutical expenditure and not increase it. So, Mr. Colleague, the problem is there, don't get confused. Politics is something else. And we have lost, Mr Colleague - and I want you to listen to me in this - and within you all know it well, four years from actually searching for what the bad texts are in health. Unfortunately, SYRIZA has the full responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u96	Thank you, Mrs Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u97	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u98	Mr. Lappa, don't open a dialogue now. I give the floor to the President of the Change Movement, Mrs. Gennimata. Here, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I get to the point that we are discussing, I would like to focus on major national issues, which are, unfortunately, at an intensification and create reasonable concern for the Greek people. The Turkish challenge now goes through the words in practice. The 'Yavuz' action in the Cyprus EEZ was already characterised by the Cypriot Government as a second invasion. It takes extremist and dangerous forms of aggressive violation of the rules of international law, as well as of the sovereign rights of Cyprus. I therefore consider it absolutely essential for the European Council at its forthcoming meeting to take a serious look at this and take concrete decisions, concrete measures with a real impact. In the refugee - immigration - everyone understands that the government is reacting spasmically, without strategy and is unfortunately caught in the unacceptable Tsipras commitments that Mrs Merkel has imposed on him in the previous period. I repeat: I insist that the change in the Erdogan Joint Declaration - the European Union should be made as a first national priority. This is the main cause of the conversion of our islands, but also of the country as a whole into a permanent storeroom of souls, which inevitably leads to unacceptable and embarrassing situations of the Morias type, but of course also creates very serious problems in the daily lives of citizens. While all this is under way, we have been informed of the new upgraded Defence Agreement between Greece and the United States. Such an agreement, ladies and gentlemen, should be linked to the real upgrading of the geopolitical role and the defensive armour of Greece. But for this agreement we have so far learned what we have given. And we've given a lot. We did not, however, know what we had in return for something. And, of course, I don't mean Mr. Pompeo's inexpensive wishes. We've asked, and we've been waiting for detailed information. And we will come back to that. After all, all these issues I intend to put them to the Prime Minister on Friday, at a meeting in his office in the House. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, a year and a half ago, in this Chamber, we discussed the government's request at the time for a preliminary examination of the NOVARTIS case. Ten political officers of the then anti-population were found on the stool. Their names were hanged in the handkerchiefs. And the pan-Hellenic one witnessed an intensely toxicization of public life. For the government, all of them were guilty until proven guilty. They were reminiscent of other times. Many months have passed since then and much has happened. The proceedings for most of the defendants have now been filed. A year and a half after the first parliamentary procedure for the alleged investigation of the case, what is the conclusion? Have citizens learned what really happened? Have they heard about the illegal practices of the multinational pharmaceutical companies? Did they hear about unfair competition? Did they learn about the hard economic war in the health field? Have citizens learned who launched the drug expenditure five years before the outbreak of the major crisis? That's what has to be done, because we're not all the same. Have we ever actively and effectively dealt with the institutional loopholes in the drug field? Only on our own initiative, ladies and gentlemen, a cross-party committee was set up, which, of course, went into history without leaving anything behind at all. Even the committee of inquiry set up and operated in the previous parliamentary term has stubbornly refused to deal with taboo issues. And we were alone to insist that we look into the long-term development of pharmaceutical expenditure, so that the public finally learn how and why public health was derailed between 2004 and 2009. This is measurable and real elements. Vassilis Kegeroglou, the Secretary of our Parliament, mentioned all the details and I will not come back. However, there was an incredible derailment by the Government of New Democracy in 2004-2009, which had a large share of the derailment of the Greek economy and the crisis. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And SYRIZA and New Democracy have closed and closed their eyes to this great scandal so far. It is now obvious that the coincidences, the meeting of their party interests, the mutual silence, the day-to-day. In this case, it is deliberately targeted by Andreas Loverdos, who is indeed the Minister of PASOK, who has linked his name to the major reforms in the field of medicine, the huge savings of resources and the end of the waste, with the reforms, that is, that have dissolved the party of the multinationals and drastically reduced the waste in the field of health. It is characteristic, of course, that the New Democracy did not find a single word about the construction and the illegal procedure at its expense in the debate the other day in the House. The Rasputin system still remains alive as it appears and maintains the toxic climate it has created itself. It has been trying to retroactively legitimise the perforated and directed management of the case over the last three years. There's a lot of questions in this case. Who imposed on Mrs Toulupakis on 9 August 2019, for fifty days, powers that had been removed from her under the new Code of Criminal Procedure? Why was Mrs Tulupaki given the right again to exercise her own criminal prosecution on the cases she is investigating? You have returned to the man you name and mention so many times and with so many black colors in the file transmitted as directly controlled by political power centers. We have already requested and expect the competent Minister of Justice to explain what is necessary. After all, SYRIZA and New Democracy have been quickened before the dossier we are discussing today in the House is even transmitted to everyone to draw their own conclusions and Mr Tsipras has early to play the political persecuted party, and Mr Mitsotakis has to sell generosity and supposedly political culture. So we don't forgive anyone. We demand that the case be investigated on a zero basis, without asterisks and reservations. In the face of this agreement of silence, we will continue to claim the right of the Greek people to learn the truth. So today we are officially going to the next act of the drama, the assessment of the handling of the case, the disclosure of the form and the manufacturers. So I ask: has the NOVARTIS case been investigated in depth? The answer is unequivocal: No! No, the way he had to. The previous government took advantage of the case as a platform to support and build a whole building. Its only goal was to spark and exterminate its political opponents. It is therefore clear that the NOVARTIS case is not just a serious scandal in the neuro-algal field. Every day that passes, it proves beyond doubt, ladies and gentlemen, the existence and functioning of a dark outraged system. It is an outrageous system that was born through the inflatability of a section of the Right, but in recent years was SYRIZA the one who fully adopted it, and of course it was unwittingly and ruthlessly fruited. The so-called "first time left" did not feel any hesitation, no disgrace at all, when he placed in the neural position of Deputy Minister of Justice the former commander of the secret services of the Government of Karamanlis, the man who was known to belong and belong ideologically in the area of the Right, that he even speaks with an important part of the New Democracy, but also a portion of the right, and paradoxically then pro-government press. After all, the leadership of SYRIZA, the so-called "left" itself, not only accepted, but sought the support of these dark systems. She bet upon their own help to build her own para-state, salivate the institutions and control them from within. And she did not hesitate to design a whole project aimed - as we have said many times and I repeat - at the extermination of her political opponents, using a willingly outlawed system that offered them the proper know-how for the implementation of the project. After all, it turns out that the most famous Rasputin was the tip of the iceberg, the coordinator of an entire system of misappropriation within the prosecutor's main body. It is really creepy what is contained in the documents transmitted. The image of supreme government and public prosecutors to complicate themselves in a dance of interventions and transactions causes every citizen, brutally insults our judiciary, damages citizens' confidence in justice and its officials. When you see strong factors of our judiciary being blackmailed, feared, rawly abolished their independence, then, ladies and gentlemen, what faith can the citizen have in this justice system? This is a heavy damage caused by the inspiring and performers of the construction, the deep wound left behind by this dark history in the institutions of our state. And that is where this House's historic duty is identified, the debt of the political class to our citizens and our democracy to guarantee that these blows will be restored, that the institutions of the rule of law will stand and that our justice will finally do what is necessary by this situation. There cannot be a blemish in our history of attempting to smash and exterminate political opponents by working on justice. We must send a message in all directions - and indeed strong - that no one can play with justice and the rule of law, no one can offend our democracy and its institutions. We are clearly saying that for us the investigation and disclosure of the construction is not a matter of revolt, it is not a personal matter of our officials who have been unjustly struck by this dark system. It's a matter of justice, it's a question of democracy. There must be an in-depth investigation of the case, without prejudice and preconceived guilty parties, as SYRIZA did in the same case in 2018. We, unlike the former prosecutors and now accused, respect the conquests of our legal culture. We do not criminalize political life, as some people did in 1989 and again political circles do in the same thirty years later. We also have the necessary courage and institutional dignity to do the right thing. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We are voting in favour of the majority request for a Special Committee to carry out a preliminary examination for the former Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos. We demand that the case be fully investigated in depth, but also in height, in order to reveal the responsibilities and those responsible, as deep as they may be, and that, at last, if this whole story was a culmination of the perverse imagination of only one juror's oath, or if it was inspired and ordered by others, if it was orchestrated by others. I am warning you again: take off your mind any thoughts of alleged lack of competence of the committee or other procedural arguments for the fast tracking of the file into justice. We will not tolerate the repetition of the paradox of 2018 with reversal of roles. Citizens are entitled to and are asked for answers from us. The House can and must dig deep into the mud and the officials - whatever level they have been, - must be named and be called to account for independent justice, because apart from prosecutors there are judges in Athens, why all the shadows must be dissolved. Today the so-called “angels of cleansing” become diluted angels and are sitting on the stool of the defendant. They played with the institutions, played with the rule of law, ultimately with democracy itself. Now it's the time of responsibility. Now is the time to begin trying to restore serious moral and institutional harm, finally to send out a strong message with multiple recipients within and outside justice. No minister, ladies and gentlemen, no political, economic or media agent, any body in the state is above the law. No construction, no radio operation remains hidden and unpunished and no one is irresponsible. We deserve and claim the smooth and uninterrupted functioning of the institutions, without interference in justice, without manipulation and suggestions, without para-state methods and cooperation with the yellow press, without extra-institutional factors. The Change Movement will make a decisive contribution to this process with objectivity, wisdom and measure, both in the case of "NOVARTIS", as well as in the construction that was set up around it, without fear, but with as much passion as needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Chief of Officership Mr Alexis Tsipras is called in Stepma. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Lebanese will pay the price of his cavalry for a few more minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ten years in this Chamber. Let me say that as long as I am in this Chamber, but as long as I follow the parliamentary procedure - I am watching it from a young child - this image I have never met. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I think that none of us have met this picture, and indeed in a parliamentary procedure for a matter which is not a mere ratification of a contract, it is not just a matter of a secondary nature, it is a very crucial issue, it is a very serious process. You blame a former minister, a political opponent, almost five felonies, and they do not have the strength, they do not have the political responsibility, they do not have the guts to be in the cabinets, neither the Prime Minister nor the Ministers nor even a mere State Secretary. In such a serious process as today, with which - in fact - you will be driven, unless you become self-sufficient early - you start the process of referring a political opponent, a former minister in the special court - that is what you are doing today - both the Prime Minister and the government majority, the least they should do, would be to stand up to political and parliamentary circumstances, to be in this Chamber today and to take the floor, take the political responsibility and explain, speak, say their arguments. But they decided to leave the Chamber, run away, because, as it turns out, they are both re-insurgents and cowards at the same time. It is the government majority - because it also decides, of course, to assist KINAL - to refer for the first time to the post-government history of the country, a minister in a special court, not because there is some sign of a scandal, not because he is accused of being damaged by acts or omissions by the Greek State or because you blame him for putting his hand in'mel', but because he had the courage to highlight the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, which you too recognise is one of the most important scandals that the place has seen. What is the 'NOVARTIS' scandal? The scandal of overpricing the drug at a time when your own executives obviously ruled, your governments, in order to favour a multinational company from this overpricing at the expense of the Greek public. And he had the courage to say publicly that he is one of the greatest scandals in modern history. And that was the big crime! Because if it wasn't the bigger one, but the second bigger or the third bigger one, it wouldn't have misunderstood him. What they were being garnished was that he said it was the biggest. So you blame, ladies and gentlemen, that is what you are doing - one of your political opponents, because it has had the great courage to raise the scandal and not to cover up your own programmes of government officials. And that's something that's been done for the first time in post-military history, to be the subject of a special court charge. Other times governments had investigated scandals and led politicians to special courts. And of course, there have also been acquittals. He never thought of any next government setting up a preliminary examination, a pre-examination committee and a special court, to avenge the political opponent in a reincarceration, because he highlighted the scandal. All from time to time, and from here on in the Step of the House, we have made use of the known proverb that our people say "calls the thief", but for the first time you are making the attempt to frighten the "housekeeper" and even by criminalizing the political life of the country. No other government has made this awkward, and that is why the government is lacking today. He's not here, he's not here because he's ashamed of what he's doing. Because he doesn't have the guts, he doesn't have the courage, he doesn't have the political responsibility. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In fact, it does so while the case is still open and is being investigated by justice, under way political persecution to a former minister and under investigation for two more former ministers. And one is now. We're not talking about a case that ended, found the innocent people and drowns you right. We're talking about a case where the justice investigation, I repeat, is in progress. And those who ran away today and did not come to this Chamber to defend their political decision in order to prevent justice being investigated in order to impose the judiciary's hood to terrorize the judges, set up a referral procedure to a special court as a guardian of the former Deputy Minister, utilizing the majority of them in this House. But at the same time that they commit this maximum insult and brutality to justice, at the same time as committing this maximum brutality to the political system itself - because you consciously criminalize political life, targeting your political opponent not with evidence, but because he had the political courage to control you - they make it with light jumpers. I'm sorry to tell you, but this is the most cowardly re-channelling of the country's modern political history. You cowardly re-engineering! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I do not know if Mr Mitsotakis actually did not want to drag this story and he did not want him to be drawn to this choice from his inner-party opposition. These are your issues, you'll find them inside of you. However, since he has chosen the present procedure, his absence is a maximum political cowardice. He had the elementary obligation to be here to hear soon that the Stepma will come to this here to speak to the person named Rasputin for months and he and all the members of the government. At least listen to him and take responsibility for leading him to a process of political reincarnation. But if Mr Mitsotakis is once a coward, because he refers to Papaggiopoulou, doing the grace of Mr Samaras - because that is what he is doing today - I would say that he is twice a coward, because he does not have the courage to refer to me. Twice a coward! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So go ahead and set it up by Papagelopoulos. Tell me: How did he set this up? Alone? For any personal benefit did Papagelopoulos set up this building? Unless you want to prove that Papagelopoulos had personal differences with Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Loverdos, they had some assets to solve from the legacy of their grandparents and that's why he set up the construction. But you don't say that. You're saying he set up political persecution and service for the benefit of SYRIZA and his government - aren't you saying that? - against the New Democracy. That's what you're saying. Yes, sir. Who's the Chief of SYRIZA and who was the Prime Minister then? Who? Why do you exclude him? Did the pain catch you - the pain got you, huh? - Your magnanimity, your political civilization? No, of course not. To save political slander and international humiliation, that's why you're exempting me and that's why you're twice as cowards. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But you should know that this attitude, this choice, this double cowardice makes you even more unreliable - cowards, I would say - in the eyes of the public, and even of your own voters. Although you did not turn against me personally, it is obvious that you are turning against me politically. Because, let's not be foolish, your problem is not Papagelopoulos. Papagelopoulos is the rivalry victim. Your problem is SYRIZA and I personally. Your problem is the anti-corruption front created by our government to express a wider demand for Greek society for transparency, rule of law, rights and true justice in our country. Yeah, well, you heard about it for justice. Because in 2015 the people not only entrusted us with dealing with the economic crisis, but also a difficult fight against a system of corruption that brought bankruptcy to the place. That's the truth. And if we failed to do something, because you will say to me: 'But you have lost the election', yes, we have lost them - and the Greek people strongly judged us, it was not because we controlled justice - as you may have accused us - or that we intervened in its work, but rather because we did not manage to fight as effectively as we would have had the deep circuits within the institutions. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] These circuits that had been hatched with side effects, such as indifference and delays in dealing with the phenomenon of corruption, but also the pluralism and bureaucracy that feeds corruption. And of course we did not do so because we did not pursue it, but because we had to deal with a system much more powerful than the political system we then called bankrupt, such as the economy of the country and its representatives, which we have often won in the polls. We had to face the hug of corrupters with strong economic power. Or maybe it wasn't like that and it isn't yet? We had to deal with the political control of media and journalists through the well-known "payroll" by CEDEFOP, and not only, in order to cultivate a popular profile to corrupt political individuals who were their mandates. And anyone seeking to investigate scandals, who saw an ego of channels, radios, newspapers, site, falling on it and accusing him of interference in the work of justice! Whoever wanted and whoever wants - I say - transparency in this country, I am interfering with the work of justice! That is why you are setting up this paradox today in this House. That is why - I repeat - you forsake SYRIZA through Papagelopoulos, which you target without evidence, but SYRIZA forsakes his government. But you have misunderstood, because the Greek people understand and have misunderstood because we are determined to fight against corruption to defend them - to remember a nice phrase that you like, not you, Mrs Bakoyannis, but your party - to defend this fight against corruption to the end. By the end we will defend him! That's it! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are therefore in favour of investigating any investigation. I had also given you all manners: "Do what you think best: exam, pre-examination, special court, whatever it suits you." Our participation in the pre-inquiry you set up will be a great opportunity for the last Greek citizen to know how this lousy mechanism has been set up, which has resulted in the crisis, when you cut his wages and pensions, to force him to pay more expensively. Because as many times as you write and pronounce the word "construction", you will not be able to make us forget what the real scandal is. And I don't know if you're aware of it, but with your choice to do pre-examination, you'll probably manage the opposite. And in this respect, I would sincerely like to thank you very much, because you will give us the opportunity to remind the Greek citizens what 'NOVARTIS' is about. 'NOVARTIS', therefore, is precisely the mechanism of overpricing medicines when the Greek people were squeezing from austerity and from shock measures. It is the mechanism that reached the level of action of the ministers, since it was linked to the adoption of ministerial decisions - so says the law - or also to the taking of legislative initiatives that facilitated the access of the interests of certain companies to the drug field. "NOVARTIS" is the most characteristic case of a scandalous process, which brought in almost twenty years the pharmaceutical expenditure in Greece 20 billion more, from 300 million in 1989 to 7.3 billion in 2010. When in the rest of the world drug expenditure increased annually by 3.5%, the Greek citizen was charged with rising drug prices by 11.1%, the highest recorded percentage among OECD countries. 'NOVARTIS' is the main component, I would say, of this great scandal of increasing the pharmaceutical expenditure between 2000 and 2014 by EUR 32.68 billion. That's how the raise was. ‘NOVARTIS’ is also the great damage to the Greek State by the charismatic acts in favour of the same company and of other pharmaceutical companies, by 12 billion per year. As you know, the famous 'Koskota' scandal, which has troubled the country's political system, concerned the embezzlement of 100 million euros. We are talking about 12 billion a year here. 'NOVARTIS', also, ladies and gentlemen, is the great pharmaceutical trick in which our country, as an average level of development, was chosen as a reference country. In other words, they were getting a price from us in the first phase of twenty-nine countries all over the world and in the second phase fifty countries all over the world. The high price, therefore, of the medicine here was translated into a high international reference value. Why did they choose our country? Obviously because there was fertile ground for corruption in Greece to achieve their goals. To speak with the language spoken by the daily citizen, "NOVARTIS" in the broadest sense was the scandal of the medicine, the scandal cost a medicine in Greece 3,300 euros for the Greek citizen and the same medicine to cost 1,087 for the French citizen in France. This was 'NOVARTIS'. [[Applause from the Wing of SYRIZA]] ‘NOVARTIS’ was a medical device at a cost of EUR 1.225 sold in Greece of EUR 5,450 and a medical machine sold at a price of forty-five times higher than that of abroad. This is "NOVARTIS" in the consciousness of the average Greek citizen. This is 'NOVARTIS', which you certainly do not want to talk about, obviously because your executives have their nest and you are the most serious political responsibilities. In order not to talk about the murder, you have us talking about the magistrate, about Mr. Papagelopoulos, who is also Rasputin.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u102	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u103	Mr. Pleari, I confess that when I met him, I didn't tell him he had such gifts, such supernatural capabilities as Rasputin. I didn't have it for him, too, that he could even set up the FBI, you know. I didn't have it for him, because I heard you accuse us that we've wasted all these politicians' consciousness, and in the end, for many of these people, the case went into the file. Yes, sir! Firstly, if we were really aiming not to investigate the truth from justice, but to smash political opponents, we would not send the whole file with all the faces, just as it came from justice, back to justice to do its job. We would choose the most appropriate goals, the ones we would consider to be the weakest and most vulnerable rings and lead them to a special court. We would move, in other words, with spear, just like you do today. We did not, because it is not you. But everything that came from justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u104	So much time has passed, Mr. Tsipras?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u105	I know you're upset about everything you're hearing, but you're gonna drink the glass to the end, drop - drop - and especially in the drop - drop. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The Greek people will remember the last overpriced and the latest signature put by government officials for overpricing "NOVARTIS". All, one by one, they'll come. So I was saying that we did not represent the judges. We turned the case back. Also, I hear a lot of people talking about a craftsman, because - he says - a lot of the people who were allegedly involved in the case went into the file. But that's exactly what proves there wasn't a brothel. Because if the judges were to be practicable, as you are complaining about them from day one to day to day to terrorize them with sues - not just complaints - in order not to do their duty, they would not have done anything but would have done the easiest thing for them: to prosecute them indiscriminately and to further investigate each other's possible involvement and possible responsibility. Unless, of course, as I said before, Mr Papagelopoulos, as Rasputin, had succeeded in setting up the FBI, so rather than sending him to the special court, you should use him for national purposes. If he can send the FBI, he's extremely capable. Unless you also claim that the FBI document is a product in the case-file it describes - you know what it says, but I will remind the Greek people again - the scandal that the US authorities are investigating and which makes a nominal reference to seven of the ten initially involved political persons. Is that a make? I put it in the Minutes to see it, since I mentioned it as a document. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Unless it is a service, ladies and gentlemen, you are a little upset today, but what to do - the document of the US authorities, which is repeated in the conclusion of the prosecutors calling for prosecution against the former Minister, Mr Loverdos, in which he states: 'Government officials and the Minister of Health were paid for the registration - the import - of new products into the market and protection against price reductions'. They also state: ‘The position of the company was that an investment of 150 thousand euros in a government official had the potential to save many millions lost by NOVARTIS’. That's what the U.S. prosecutors say. And this is Papaggiopoulou's maker? Had Papagelopoulos penetrated so much into the FBI and the US agencies and made all this construction? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Good for him! [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Of course, between us now, what the FBI will tell us, after Mr. Georgiadis has left and said he's lost any idea about the FBI. After the quality of the research he saw on "NOVARTIS," he says, "I lost all idea about the FBI". You see, the FBI, however, is not the NSA to put it under Mr. Mitsotakis' supervision, to put in charge of someone without a degree, so that we can have him for sure. It's not! Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying that no matter how hard you try, you of the government majority, no matter what you decide in the vote later, no matter what you will decide in the pre-examination you will set up, no matter how much you have decided in advance, even if you set up the crucial word in today's sitting, unfortunately it is not the word'manufacture'. The word that is in the mouth and mind of millions of our fellow citizens, the word that simmers in the squares and cries at the cafés by pensioners who paid their medicine twice, the sacked of the crisis, the young people who fled abroad, are not "construction". Unfortunately for you, whatever you do, the word is 'justice'. The Greek people are asking for this great, the huge scandal of 'NOVARTIS'. Justice. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] SYRIZA, although he has failed to change everything, has dared to set up a government a reason and implement a policy that has brought about the essential concept of justice at the centre, both of justice to be attributed to the courts of our country, but also justice to the institutions, to life, to society, to our daily lives. You, today, are trying, with a cowardly reinsism, to give one more blow to justice. I can assure you that you will find it in front of you and soon. He'll turn you back, boomerang. As many special courts as you set up to prove supposedly constructions, the great majority of Greek society, even the majority of those who voted for you in July, knows very well what the "NOVARTIS" scandal is and asks for justice. And now he sees you, despite what you were saying in an election, even though you were not saying exactly that, because Mr. Mitsotakis said in an election interview that they are not all innocent - trying to bury it behind the mist of the allegedly construction. Remember, it won't do you any good!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u106	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u107	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u108	Here you go, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u109	Mr. Tsipras touched on our resignation and the Prime Minister personally, and I only want two minutes, because I understand that Mr. Koutsoubas is asking for the floor, and I respect that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u110	Wait a minute, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u111	He is not entitled to speak of Mr. Mitsotakis' staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u112	He's used to him for rehab and desertion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u113	Mr. Levane, I'm sorry. You'll take the floor. Mr. Koutsubas has a turn to speak as a political leader. Wait, please. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Koutsubas has the floor as political leader. Mr Lebanese has asked for the floor. They're entitled 12 minutes. He has not spoken as a spokesman for the first party, and many of the opposition parties have spoken. I would like Mr. Koutsoubas to take three minutes of his twelve-minute term, then Mr. Koutsoubas will take the floor and then Mr. Varoufakis will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u114	I just want one minute to refer to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u115	That doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u116	Please! It has not been a long time since the speech from the first to parliamentarians has been heard. Mr. Lebanon, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u117	I gave Mrs. Gennamas and Mr. Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u118	I want the floor, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u119	Calm down! It's nothing bad!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u120	Are you at a General Meeting? You're in the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u121	It's a democratic dialogue, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u122	Come on. Begin, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u123	Just a minute and you'll answer. Mr. Tsipras accused the Prime Minister, we have all understood, of reunification and desertification. He was accused of missing from the Chamber today and because the ministers are absent from the Chamber today. You blame him and your Chief has accused him because you simply do not understand the principles of our democracy. Both the non-signature of the proposal and the current absence of it and all our parliamentary ministers from this process are proof of their commitment to the principles of democracy and respect for the separation of powers. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise - protests from the SYRIZA wing and ironic applause]] Give us a hand and a lesson today. Bravo! The independence of legislative power is sacred to our party and it is not for yours, it seems. But it is also sacred to the Constitution, and Mr Tsipras should read the Constitution and see, if allowed, what he says in Article 86.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u124	I remind you that Mr. Tsipras spoke of absolute silence. Go on, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u125	Here's what the Constitution says. You know the booklet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u126	He's a congressman!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u127	Calm down. We've got all night. You've had four years and we've seen what you've done with these cases. He says the Constitution: "Only the parliament has the power to prosecute those who have been or have been members of the Government or State Secretary for criminal offences which have been committed in the performance of their duties, as laid down in law. It is forbidden to adopt..." and so on. So we come and tell you what, gentlemen, you're shouting. And why are you yelling? Because you don't have any serious arguments. And why did your Chief leave? Because he has no serious arguments too, because he has made his worst speech today in the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u128	You don't know what you're saying. You've lost your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u129	The present procedure is particularly important and it is practical - and keep this - for Parliament. It belongs to the core of Parliament's power and to each of us. We here - and do not take this responsibility off you - are the sole authorities to judge whether or not we are going to proceed with the creation of this preliminary committee, not the government. For this purpose, both the Prime Minister and all our parliamentary ministers, not only are not here today to intervene, as you and your colleague Mr Kammenos and the former Minister have intervened, but they have not even signed this proposal, precisely to leave it in the parliamentary process. Understood? That is the reality and that is why you will be invited to answer today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u130	We're going on...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u131	President of your party who is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u132	Mr. Ragossi, you're a speaker later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u133	Tell me, Mr. Levane, President of your party who is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u134	The Mitsotakis who put you in opposition. That's why you have a problem with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u135	Well, Mitsotakis is the Prime Minister, but who is the president of your party?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u136	Please! We continue with the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u137	It is not the first time - and it will certainly not be the last - that a case, which appears as a scandal, is at the heart of political confrontation and is trying to overshadow other important issues, issues of topicality. In the previous House we had the NOVARTIS scandal, the existing scandal. Today we have the reverse version of the complaints made about illegal interference by the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Papaggiopoulou, in the work of justice. Irrespective of the substance of the case, in our view, it is not by chance that the political time that the government majority chooses to bring this matter to the House. The Greek people must know that. We are at a time of very serious developments at the level of both internal and foreign policy. On the one hand, we have the imminent deposit of a plan...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u138	When your president spoke, did we do this to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u139	You're right. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u140	If you want to talk, please go outside. I want to do the role of presiding! So I was saying that we have the imminent deposit of the multi-brand plan, which is, in fact, a direct attack on collective agreements, on wages, on employment rights, on what remains of the oldest governments of the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA. In fact, this multi-brand plan is taking a step further, aiming at the operation and autonomy of the trade unions, the right to strike, which, of course, was launched by SYRIZA, with the well-known Achtsoglou amendment. We have the new attack you're planning on social security. By means of a vehicle the Katorugalou and the infamous three pillars proceed to privatize now social security, the first ancillary ones. On the other hand, we have the result of the visit of the American Foreign Minister to Athens, the signing of the Greek American agreement on military bases. The celebrations of both the New Democracy Government and SYRIZA - which prepared this agreement - are unrealistic and are literally rushing the truth. The dangerous agreement on military bases turns our country into a major power station for our people, serves the aim of the United States, which is to upgrade its intervention in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East, North Africa, the Persian Gulf, to control energy sources and pipelines to tough competition with Russia and China. Protection from Turkey, security, stability in the region, is a smokescreen and is perpetuated daily by developments, from Greece's involvement in competitions, the escalation of Turkish aggression, the violation of Cyprus's sovereign rights, violations in the Aegean Sea. The United States, which requested the participation of a Greek warship yesterday in the multinational force of the US in the Gulf, before well - Pompeo departed from Athens, gave Turkey the "green light" of a new military operation in Northern Syria against the Syrian people, against the Kurds, with mass killings of civilians and new enlargement and the refugee current. It is precisely the debate on all of this that you want to avoid. Informing the Greek people about all of this is what you are trying to prevent. Because you know very well that the Greek people are opposed to such designs. He proved it with two mass strikes, no matter how much you tried to reduce their resonance. He proved it with the last great protest in the US Embassy. And he will oppose even more if he learns the truth about the real goals and the real consequences of your policy. So you're resorting to the well-known Scandalology. You are resorting to a communication diversion, disorientation, that is instead of discussing all of this again, to talk about 'NOVARTIS', Papaggelopoulos and so on. It is a convenient agenda - we have seen it just before Mr Tsipras and the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy - and for the Government of the New Democracy, but also for the other parties that are strategically drafted with her and especially for the Police Vice-President, SYRIZA. However, the debate on scandals also takes place in such a way that it obscures rather than helps uncover the truth. The JRC, from the moment the debate on the NOVARTIS scandal opened, pointed out that, beyond the full investigation of the case, the deepest causes of the scandals especially at the drug scene should be investigated, the deepest causes that brought this scandal to the surface. These reasons lie in the fact that the medicine is a profitable commodity, the ownership of strong business groups and, therefore, the strong competition of large groups for greater profits. These competitions, of course, do not only concern the drugs sector, but also other sectors of the economy, all of which are economic sectors, and they go to the point, particularly today, that the whole trade wars be conducted between different states, in various alliances. We said at the time that it was a great naivety, until political irresponsibility to consider, for example, that the 'NOVARTIS' scandal had nothing to do with the discomfort of the United States of America about Germany's profits at the expense of its own companies and the counter-response they are developing in the pharmaceutical industry, the automotive industry as well in too many other sectors. The pain in corruption or in the amount of pharmaceutical expenditure that our people pay for has not taken on the Americans. So there is the objective basis for an endless donation and reception between groups, their political staff, governments, and on this ground misery, corruption, scandals are the top of the iceberg business up to geopolitical games, the clearing of accounts between leading monopolies and capitalist states. That is why there is not a single country with its own scandals, any control mechanisms or so-called independent authorities, and whether they exist in it. On the occasion of the 'NOVARTIS' case, there has also been a discussion and confrontation between the parties that have governed this country about who has further reduced the state pharmaceutical expenditure, and this has also been attempted to show itself as a pit to combat the conflict. However, the evidence reveals that the governments which have made progress in reducing public expenditure did not do so in order to affect the large profits of the pharmaceutical industry, but in order to achieve the objectives of budgetary adjustment and, of course, to load the financial burden on the workers. It is characteristic that, despite the drastic reduction in retail prices in recent years, printing is too small. In other words, the state expenditure on the medicine may be reduced, but it does not reduce the cost of medicines, so that the patient is additionally charged for his purchase. Compared to public expenditure between 2009 and 2016, the State and the insurance funds pay 57.7% less, while the insured at the same time pay 43.1% more. In the committee set up for the NOVARTIS case, we have tabled proposals to make research essential. We have proposed that all offences should be dealt with, that all witnesses should be examined, and that information collected in conditions of publicity and transparency only be made a positive contribution to the investigation of the case that went hand in hand with the judicial authorities. But the course of the committee and its brief life will remain in parliamentary history as another monument of degeneration. Today, as we have said, we have a reverse version of the NOVARTIS case with complaints of interference in the work of justice concerning specific political persons. Tomorrow, of course, we may also have a third version of the NOVARTIS case depending on how political correlation is formed each time. What could be a solution to this vicious cycle of disorientation, Scandalism and political games that are played in Parliament as well? Finally, what is also a people's demand, but also a motto of political forces - it seems to me only in words - and completely abolish this unacceptable law on the liability of Ministers and, above all, abolish the basic core of this law, according to which the decision to set up a preliminary committee of inquiry for the purpose of prosecuting criminal prosecution or for the revocation of criminal prosecution is taken by the respective parliamentary majority. The ministers must be controlled and tried, like all citizens, without the involvement of the House. However, you have not dared to do so either, as your positions in the constitutional revision process show. As you do not dare - and the New Democracy and the SYRIZA - to abolish the regulation, according to which the leadership of the Supreme Courts is appointed by the respective government, something that the associations of courts themselves are asking for. And then you are allegedly cut off for interventions in the work of the judges, who are sure they did, do and do all of their governments and their respective ministers. Will you tell me, would they stop these phenomena if these changes were made? You know we don't have that kind of delusion. At least, however, it would not be so easy to play all these political games, which are now being played on a permanent basis. The JRC will not, with its participation in the voting process, legalise all these games and all this effort to cover them, whether it concerns the drug scandal or the manipulation of justice. We shall therefore withdraw from the vote. We will, of course, take part in the Committee of Inquiry, if it is set up, we will re-evaluate our proposals so that there is a substantial and in-depth investigation of the whole case and we will appreciate our position there too. The sure thing is that we are not going to follow you in all this little disorientation kit that you all play on the backs and the great problems of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u141	Here comes Mr. Velopoulos. But wait a minute, Mr. Velopoulou, because Mr. Lovers has been asking for the floor for a minute. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u142	I do not know, Mr President, if I need one minute, I would like to say a sentence. We know very well that for many years Mr Tsipras has not had a limit on demagogy, lies and anesthesia. So it doesn't surprise us what he says, no matter how many times he says it. Tonight, however, he did something very insulting, first of all insulting him as political leader. When the file came from America and was filed in the House along with the rest in February 2018, what he read to us here as a discovery and an invention, we had seen it. What is this about, Mr President? What the hoodmen said in Athens, they were also told in America. The same faces who called them here in hood, went and called them there. For what purpose? To obtain money from a possible condemnation of "NOVARTIS" in America from the compensation in question. They went for percentages. But the FBI, Mr President, has explained a thousand times and Mr Stournaras has tabled this in his memorandum and in the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay that he has never investigated Greek politics. The Ambassador of the United States has clarified it, but also the FBI itself in writing. What he presented here as the FBI are the products of all this misery with the cocooners, of whom he himself tried to benefit. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Mr President, it's a service. What Mr Tsipras has shown today is that he has no cut. There is no limit - I repeat - to lie, demagogy and anesthesia. He is not ashamed of anything to serve his small-scale interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and four educational sessions from the 1st EMPAL Coropio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with what I have heard from my friend, Andreas Loverdos. We have two sets, or maybe we have two against one. Some say that you are garners, that is, vice versa, and do not complain, Mr Simopoulos, because you call them valors, politicians, fraudsters, and you are accused of misadversaries. This is the conclusion, and underneath we have children, we have people and they listen to us. The makers and the misadors. Someone's right, someone's wrong. So let's look between us what might happen. Because both can't be. It can't be done. You can't both be right, someone's right, someone's wrong. Listen, gentlemen of the New Democracy, because you are the majority. You're cowards. I said it first in here. You're cowards. Today's just Tsipras used it. It's "coops" that my friend, Paulakis, said. You're cowards! In other words, Papagelopoulos woke up one morning and said: “What do I have to do today? Indicate Antonis Samaras, Pikrammenos and the whole New Democracy world together." Is that what you want us to believe? So, did one minister wake up without the Prime Minister knowing about anything else? Is that how your government does? Each Minister alone, self-defense and autonomously incriminating anyone? No, gentlemen of the New Democracy. It's just here that you're smuggling on civilisation, because you know very well that if it doesn't prove that there is a problem and you incriminate Tsipras, you'll make him a hero and you don't want to make him a hero, if you're wrong. If this is called justice, we have another view of justice, which is on a very basic seat. Guilty guilty. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Just stuff. Guilty guilty. Why am I saying that? Because you're guilty. And most importantly, you're guilty of why? Pharmaceutical expenditure is a huge scandal. We lost at least 20 billion euros of this history, and none of you thought about dealing with it. Because that's the scandal, not about whether the SYRIZA guys were the makers or you were the only ones. Let's see who all those people were taken from the history of "NOVARTIS". You didn't even bother. Do you know why? Because most doctors who took them or the people who made the rolls are members of the New Democracy, the PASOK. That's the truth. You just don't want to see her. I understand the anguish of the hundred and fifty-eight of the New Democracy to persecute Papagelopoulos, Velopoulos or anyone else, to have an alibi for the crimes they commit. And I'll tell you what the crimes you're committing. Because you're making big crimes in Greece. You change the population composition of yours and we'll see you along the way, because at some point you have to apologize for all these crimes you're committing. You have a couple of - three of your own, playing patriotic neo-democrats, making statements and cheetahs on national issues, on poachers, who are baptizing them as you wish. Whenever you want to tell them immigrants and then illegal immigrants. So you're doing it, not to say what they say about the burger to show you've got patriotic blood inside you. You have no patriotic blood, because your president is against Nativism, against selfishness, and we will explain them to you shortly. To ask a philosophical question. We have some prosecutors who became politicians. You, too, have former prosecutors and judges who became politicians if I'm not mistaken. Do you think that's appropriate? Do you consider that to be honest, to have judges and ministers? Where's the inadmissible, irresponsible justice? How will the citizen trust a judge who, to become a politician, had an underground relationship with the party he was ruling? And what are you doing? See how hypocritical you are. You have the Minister to put the highest leadership of the Ice Arrow. This has been a story since 1950, as I learned recently. Change it. We have no right to speak of independent justice when the leadership is appointed by the Minister of Justice. It is up to the judiciary in Greece. Or do we not know how many outrageous circuits we've heard in Greece? Or do you not know, I say, that prosecutors or high-ranking prosecutors of the Ice Bay are often recruited to carry out "death contracts" of some, political or oliggers? Don't you know that? No, New Democracy doesn't know that. And to tell you something, because you're guardians of justice. Why not sign one of you - who are looking for twenty others - in the New Democracy to chase the betrayal of Macedonia and Kotzia? Why doesn't either of you sign? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Where's your patriotism? That five-six of you talking to the channels? Is that patriotism? You charged yourself with a shameful treachery agreement of the Ambassadors on the Macedonian, the scorpion. Why don't you sign twenty of you and it's in the drawers of the President of this House that story with Kotzias? But you do, you know, like the movie "The Bacallagatos" and the Hatzyustos, the free man. The free magic is over, gentlemen of the New Democracy. That was election. Now you're ruling. You have to decide. Let's go to the rest. I won't say names. Is it true that there is - now listen - a son of Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow who has been appointed lately to a Minister's office? Do you hear that, gentlemen of the New Democracy? It's yours. And you're telling me about independent justice? Son of Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay has been appointed lately. Is that how we're going to go to independent justice? Where do you say that? There is a daughter again prosecutor and former head of the ILO, who is posted to a Minister's office. And you're talking about independent justice? Do you understand what you're saying? We have more. Listen, he was appointed to the Competition Committee. Her father is the oldest judge in S.T.E. Cases now being heard by S.H.E. You appointed her, too. You want more? There's a lot of names. So we're talking about independent justice and will the Greek people who resort to the temple of democracy and justice to find their point? What's his point of finding? If he does not have a friend of the Minister or a MP or has no plug, I fear that the sentence is given. Who are we mocking in here? Who are you mocking in here? Do you think you can play with the intelligence of the Greek people for a long time? You made a speech about the Pappiggulou building. I'll say it again once more. The real scandal isn't Papagelopoulos, gentlemen. It is that since 1974 - not to say from 1828 onwards - we have heard of scandals and nobody has been in jail. We have heard a lot of scandals in this Parliament, a bunch of pre-interrogatives, a bunch of inquiries and prisons, no one entered. From a carambola, Chohatzopoulos came in because they found him the "black" money from another company that made the stupidity declare it. Who's in jail? Who will believe that what you're doing is honest when you take Mr. Tsipras off the "caddy"? You are pulling out of the "cadron" of the Prime Minister, whom you yourself constantly complained to and said that we are "speaking thieves, misadords, political imposters". There are statements by former Members of Parliament and now ministers who have said that they are a political fraudster and that they will 'blood him up'. 'We will take him', he says, 'blood the Prime Minister'. It's statements. It's words, in spite of all, nothing else! Today the New Democracy is coming to acquit Mr. Tsipras. And you're putting us in a difficult position to drag Papagelopoulos, who, I repeat, did it on his own, on what you decided. If you were indeed honest with your voters, you should have sent your Prime Minister himself, if you think it was a construction. Otherwise, you don't think it's a service. Pledging is something very simple: what you are doing to change an agenda and a football field and to discuss this in this respect while others are flaming. It's the economy, it's red loans, it's the confiscations of the Greeks' houses. Give homes to poachers and get out the Greeks, who are homeless. These are the major issues. But it's easy to change your agenda. But it is difficult to be honest with the Greek people. And I'm saying that for you guys that were saying other things you're doing. From 2000 to 2009, you know how much money we lost from "NOVARTIS" drugs? We lost 20 billion! 20 billion of drugs have been lost! And instead of all looking together where the 20 billion is, you're dealing with Papagelopoulos and not with Tsipras. You work with a minister who woke up one morning and decided to go after all your ministers. And you want us to believe that. Gentlemen, it's 20 billion. Does anyone have them in here, not look into them? Why don't you just sit down and look for them? This is where offenses are recorded. Doctors are acquitted every day. I don't know if you're learning that. Are you interested in this? Twenty billion is money. Who took them? They enclosed about four thousand doctors, many of whom are acquitted daily because the offences were dropped. We're not doing anything. And people are listening. And we're dealing with Papagelopoulos. So instead of looking for the stolen money, we'll bring back the stolen money, the $20 billion, you'll have to deal with a Papaggelopoulos. It's what they say in my village, gentlemen, "the donkey's made, we beat the shamari." You're wrong. The donkey is 20 billion, the shamari is Papagelopoulos. Let's get this straight. And you know, it's not a simple scandal, it's an international scandal. You've fallen into a trap, you've been trapped. Because I understand what your difficulty is. NoVARTIS is a German company of German interest. Don't look and put the knife on the bone, you love Germany.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u145	It's Swiss.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u146	It's not Swiss, sir, I know it better than you do. It's German interests. I know what I'm saying. Listen to me. It's German interests. For you, however, of the New Democracy, the Germans are your friends. They're not our friends for us. Our friends are the ones who help Greece. And the German 'BMW' today is investing 1.2 billion in Turkey and not even 1 euro has actually given us for investment. Understand, gentlemen? But where would you dare say about Germany? So say something about Germany, you'll leave the party. It's for granted. Can't one of the New Democracy criticise Germany? One! To say something about Germany. Nothing. Nobody's talking. Why, you guys? So much do you love Germans? And a man who has something to do with Germany tells you. I am not like you who are just in the words friends with Germany for other reasons. And there are other things we could say. Listen a little. You have never dealt with the Samara suit, Venizelos, and as far as the political groups are concerned, Mr Tsipras. As far as I know, Samaras and Venizelos talked about Tsipras. Why are you taking them out? If you find me a real excuse, I too should say it, yes, your excuse stands, since the Samara and Venizelos sues also concern Tsipras. He says it in. He says his name. Why don't you take him as a defendant? Tell me about it. Are you cowards? Are you afraid? Is it a transaction? Is that a collapsing silence agreement? What is it? You tell me. If you'll excuse me, I'll accept it. If you don't excuse me, I'm going to say that you're in agreement with SYRIZA, to cover the case, there's no other excuse - the 20 billion-dollar case that's been lost by the drugs. And, of course, here - I'll tell you raw - you're squashing against Mr. Tsipras. Why? Minister, I address you. I don't know if you're listening. Look at the picture. That's a fugitive. You are cowardly, and above all your ministers. They let the "second-classists" rather than the government deal with a major ethical issue for it, the construction of SYRIZA against the New Democracy, and they are all absent. I'd be ashamed of myself. You're fleeing, gentlemen. The government is fleeing. And they put us in here to get the snake out of the hole. What? This snake that you have nourished, the 'NOVARTIS scandal'. You've nourished it, you've devoured it, and now you've left it in vain, and we have to apologize to the people out there. No, gentlemen. You're the cowards, you're fugitives. This is your government. Look at her a little. This is your government with your empty chairs. Until they took the minister's chair, they were bullies, and they'd be put in jail. Now that they've taken the chairs, it's the Department for them. So to make it clear between us certain things to make it clear that the institution of justice is not playing with. Because whoever plays with justice burns himself. I would like to refer to a particularly serious issue in red loans. Do you know what a plan New Democracy is going to do? To change the agenda, because these are the serious, everyday issues. It's Mr. Zavvos' story, the most failed. You carry him on your back, Mr. Zavvo, and he will destroy you. Now listen, about three months later, they accepted the arrangements for red loans only three people. That's a frenzy failure. Three people! Twenty - thousands started the process of first home protection and only three accepted. Red loans. When you give money, allowances and houses to the poachers, Hassan and Ibrahim, you take Greek's house. This is a national crime, gentlemen. It's a national crime! Understood. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And tell you why you're doing it? I'll tell you now. On 11-6-2018 Mr.Mitsotakis, before becoming Prime Minister, said: "The authoritarian and populist forces are becoming more and more powerful throughout Europe and the world. The rise of xenophobia, nativism...'. Nativism. Let me give you the translation, because some might not know what "nativism" means. Natibism: a tendency or movement developed within societies aimed at maintaining, revitalising and reintroducing indigenous cultural aesthetics, morals and customs as a reaction to foreign penetration. What does the Chief of New Democracy say, which is in favour of multiculturalism? He says he's against Nativism. He wants a lot of civilization. It's against the Greeks. That's why he's blocking poachers. And you have two - three of them helpful - not to say a word - stupid to play patriots and make a statement on the channels that they are patriots. But your Chief is against selfishness and the indigenouss. He's said it himself. He says it himself. You are fans of patriotism. Decide who you are. Either you are with Mitsotakis and the enemies - if you like - of Nativism or you are patriots and you are with the Greek citizen, who is taxed and persecuted every day. Decide in New Democracy who you are. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Do you realize we have a population change? Do you understand that we have an ethnic alteration? Do you understand what you're doing today? You accused these incompetent people here. That's what you told them. 'Incapacitated'. ‘Reporters’. "They can't do anything." Already today, seven hundred entered Greece. Do you realize that every day there are seven hundred and a thousand? We're done. At last, close the border. Close the NGOs at last. Turn them off! Fence Evros. Do something at last! And don't transfer them to mainland Greece. You're committing another crime. You're transferring the problem to the local society. And that's another crime. We'll find it in front of us. A lot of people in here are young. In conclusion, I will tell you this: Today I read in the newspapers that after the rental of hotels throughout the country, the government is launching training and education programmes for refugees and migrants. Are you all right? Didn't you say they were coming to leave? You didn't send them away? What training and training of refugees are you doing? It's a full ministerial decision. Why are you doing this? Do you do it to stay here? You're criminals. You're committing a crime nationally. We're training them. So what do we do to them? Are we making them technocrats too? Will the poachers become investors? The proclamation inside says a lot of things. Of course I can tell the JRC, which is missing, that the only municipality without hotspot - and it will never exist - is in the Prefecture of Achaias, in the Municipality of Patras. It's never gonna be there. The Municipality of Patras doesn't have a hotspot. And they have a communist mayor. And they're philanthropists. And they love solidarity and refugees. So I tell you that according to what they are doing, we cannot interpret a few things. As for the HERAKLIS project, I will say it again. Go and load thirty billion euros guarantees into three bonds: senior, mezzanine and junior. Issue of bonds guaranteed by the Greek State, will be suppressed. Thirty billion dollars are being charged to the debt again. Do you understand? And you've got Zavvo and you've got him. Draggie saw it, and he had a little turbulence at the beginning. The Europeans do not accept it. What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u147	Finish, Mr. Velopoule, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u148	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'll be done. In conclusion, I would like to mention this: you are giving the municipalities thirty silver. You are so disgusting that you give to cities of thirty silver to betray Greece. You give bonuses - he says - to any municipalities that accept poachers. He's not an immigrant to me. Immigrant is the particular man, my father and my mother, who legally went to Germany to work. And I was a son of immigrants, and I felt racism the real thing on my side. You give bonuses to the municipalities, thirty silvers, to alter the population composition of Greece. You deserve congratulations. You're the same as SYRIZA at all, both in the construction and in the scandals. Mostly, the worst of all: You are the same in your helpless attitude to put an end to smuggling. Understood. You're helpless. Why? Here's your government, those who rule. Look at them - not to say, spit on them - how they're fugitive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u149	Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, is hereby called on to step up the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a picture of Parliament. The Greek people did not send us here to pretend that we are interrogators, that we are prosecutors, that we are criminal investigators, that we are assessers of criminal responsibilities of the opposition political party. This cockfight that we have seen today, with them blaming them and blaming them, is inconsistent with a picture of Parliament that children want to see from the gallery, our people on television. I'm talking as badly as I can. We must rethink our legal framework and our personal behaviour in Parliament. These worms do not result from your personal weaknesses. They arise from a legal framework. You force me, or at least the legal framework, to make me remember Montesquier again, who said that when the legislature and the judiciary become one, there ceases to be freedom. Is it possible to have committees of inquiry in which Members pretend to be the prosecutor and judge? What other parliament is this doing? When the Senate in the United States starts the process of reviewing the President of the United States, as it is today with President Trump, this is about whether the Senate is political, Congress considers that Mr Trump is qualified, still has the legitimacy to be President of the United States. You'll never see a committee of inquiry...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u151	He's on trial.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u152	He's not on trial, Mr. Loverdo. He's judging whether he's going to take out the presidential office.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u153	As a court of law, it works. The Senate decides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u154	He doesn't put him in jail. He doesn't play the D.A.'s role. And you will never see in parliament an interrogated committee of MPs trialing other MPs, other Senators. Committees of Inquiry must be carried out in order to seek political responsibility. Once again we have had the 'Cyprus Office'. It was very important that there should be a committee of inquiry into the political responsibilities for the torture of the Cypriots and the Cyprus issue. I would say that we also have a committee of inquiry on how the 'parasitarian oligarchy' loaded the Greek people with hundreds of billions and what happened after the Memorandum of Greece, from 2010 until today and to cover the entire period and period I was in the Ministry of Finance. Looking for political responsibilities, though. Our aim must not and cannot be to condemn them and to give political responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, take note of the enormous mismatch between what is happening outside the House and what is happening today. When the popular feeling is not expressed by Parliament as a whole, we have a huge issue of legitimacy, politics and morality in our Parliament in the eyes of the Greek people. The Greek people are aware of the scandals, the constructions, the 'SIEMENS', the 'NOVARTIS'. He knows. He doesn't know exactly who and what, but the complication feels it in his skin. His children are abroad or are about to leave due to a generalized, accumulated, parasitic, oligarchal process involving politicians, participation by big businessmen, participation by state officials. The Greek people know that, as we know. I'm not talking about delivering certain responsibilities. It is a sense that also responds to a reality, in which - and here is the humiliation of the Greek Parliament, the Greek state and the Greek people - we learn that when it comes to'slaps' a judicial investigation or an FBI investigation into the United States, or for 'SIEMENS' or 'NOVARTIS'. Let's not forget that the Volkswagen scandal, which is not about Greece, but about Germany, has "dried" in the United States, due to the persecution of Volkswagen by the American prosecution authorities. Is it not the time to stop this maliciousness in Parliament, which comes to be added to the surrounding atmosphere in society? Think about it. Our people, regardless of whether they are neo-democrats, KINAL, SYRIZA, Mer25, KKE, anything, is convinced of corruption and complications and constructions. What are we doing here? With these cockfightings - where some blame them and others - they're all called guilty. When everyone's guilty, he's not a guilty man. The result is a complete mismatch between the popular feeling and what we here, which eventually leads to - what? - to total impunity. We know that the 'SIEMENS' scandal has been done because there are convictions abroad. We also know names of Greeks. Full of their impunity! And what do we have to offer the Greek people as a Parliament? These endless committees of inquiry, where we are all pretending to be prosecutors, and we all owe all the other guilty and acquitted our own. This has to stop. We have proposed - and we have proposed it in the election - that a body should be set up to prosecute a state-owned and business-owned crime, one of our own FBIs, which is an independent authority under the supervision of Parliament, which has the means to do what the FBI does. Why can the FBI catch the 'NOVARTIS', 'SIEMENS' and 'VOLKSWAGEN' scandals and we cannot be here? At least we should try and concentrate our committees of inquiry on political responsibility. That's the proposal of Mera25. Ladies and gentlemen, without fear and without any passion and with love and sympathy to all of you and all of you, we in Mera25 state that the conversion of Parliament into a lousy public prosecutor substitute is an institutional diversion. We will not be involved in this process, we will leave and we will not participate in any such pre-examination, preliminary examination - say it as you want - a committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u155	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Lebanese, is called at Step. Immediately after the proposal has been put forward, the former Deputy Minister of Justice will be called upon to speak, and then the parliamentary representatives of the parties who have spoken, but their leaders - so for less time than Mr Lebanese - will continue with the single list of speakers with a successive development. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Varoufakis, of course - as in the debate on refugee and immigration - expressed opinions which are a little out of reality, so today he has taught us a lesson of democracy in relation to what the Greek people are asking for. I am very sorry, Mr Varoufakis, but that is not the case. You were a member of this government that brought the country into this situation and we are forced today to shout to prove the obvious. But I wanted to come to a little bit of the bad - in my opinion - a speech by Mr Tsipras today. He told us that he has ten years in the House, that is, he meant that he has a great deal of parliamentary experience, but what we have all understood - and the Greek people were watching him - is that parliamentarianism has not taken over. It does not fit into his mind that other things are the duties of parliament and other government and showed us the empty benches and that what the latter is doing produces a political lesson and a final result. It is natural, therefore, that he does not understand what these empty chairs represent precisely for the separation of powers, as I have said before and why only Members must speak today. Apart from the anti-parliamentary, however, Mr Tsipras - and I agree with Mr Loverdos - has again proved to be unhealthy. It is the same person who had announced prosecutions, even before - I remind you - made them known by justice. It is the one who had welcomed Mr. Papagelopoulos, as soon as he entered Maximou and then said - Mr. Papagelopoulos - the greatest scandal of a recommendation from the Greek state and it was Mr. Tsipras who set up the ten polls in here. Today he comes back, with new lies and new distortions in his patio. Appropriate for what not only highest judges testify, but the false witnesses you yourself have convicted. And not only that, but he also daringly referred to anonymous complaints. Honestly, shame! At the same time, however, when the SYRIZA Chief continues to swim in his mud yesterday, the leader of the New Democracy is opening a new era. And so that some of your MPs who asked us who our Chief, our Chief, is Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who won you this summer, not one, not two, not three, four times! And it will always win you because it has changed history! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So Kyriakos Mitsotakis opens a new era. At this new time, Mr Tsipras and probably the entire parliamentary group - we will see how the others will be placed - do not understand that every power will be in charge of the home, without intervention from the other. Listen, Mr. Janakopoulou, why did you yell?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u157	I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u158	Yeah, we're waiting. In this new era, the Prime Minister will not be required to participate in an extremely parliamentary procedure, but where the presence of the Prime Minister will not make sense of a procedure. You don't get that. Watch it for a bit. At this new time, the Prime Minister will be able to internationally represent the country at agreed meetings abroad, but at the same time the House will be able to proceed with its own institutional procedures, in accordance with the Constitution - which I read to you before and obviously you have not read it - and the law. We have also heard, ladies and gentlemen, with great interest, the Chief of Police Vice-President defend with great passion his Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos. In fact, he was hugged again tonight with Mr. Papagelopoulos. No surprise. The same thing he did with his dear friend, Mr. Polakis, who will be glad to hear him again today because we have missed him! I want to say one thing to Mr Tsipras because he says the whole of the Greek people: The choices of each one show who he is. Mr. Tsipras' choices are Mr. Papagelopoulos and Mr. Paulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u159	And we're proud of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u160	Congratulations! So you have the opportunity today to vote in favour of our proposal because that is where Mr Lappas took us before. Of course, you may not coordinate very well. We listened carefully to him in the nineteen minutes that he spoke of the first ten issues, not today, and the next nine did not say a word about Mr Papagelopoulos. On the contrary, many times she referred to a journalist, Ms Papadakou, whose voyeur shed and covered her. So if you go to Mr. Lappa you can prove that you want another Greece, that you want a Greece, to which the ministers will not interfere in justice and at the same time enjoy immunity. A Greece in which we will all be equal to the law and stand equal before justice. Unfortunately, after listening to Mr. Tsipras, who came to put things in place - and that is why I see that Mr. Lappas has left the Chamber - we understand that you are going to vote on something else. And, of course, apart from this vote, Mr. Tsipras did not feel the need to say anything about the events of your own government in matters of justice. I would therefore like, in today's debate, to remind you that it was your government - with the ANELs - which invested politically in the NOVARTIS scandal and focused the attention and time of the judges from seeking the real scandal on a witch hunt and seeking fantastic political responsibilities for political persons. It was, then, just your own government, leaving headlessly the other highest courts chosen, as you remember, President of the Ice Bay at 3.00 a.m., with a deep dip in the yearbook to check who will lead later an election government. It was you who discussed increasing the age limits of judges to keep Mrs Thanos in the lead of justice. And when this failed, Mr. Tsipras had the courage to appoint her in his legal office as he had just retired. And today's news: you saw what the Commissioner said to Mr Papadimoulis, who raised this issue in committee, that there is no problem with the government's moves. These are, not only to raise tons for television. I would also like to remind you that it was Mr Tsipras himself who called the justice an institutional obstacle that he would overcome. Of course, your "fly Sfakian" Minister, who was the flag of the Government, and today is the flag of your party, and said, if you remember then, after the emblematic decision of the St.E. for television licences, that there has been a 'coup d'état' and that 'we have war' and the left, he says, 'he knows how to fight'. He was the one who said - and this has been written in history now - that we must put some of our opponents in prison to win the elections. But it doesn't stop there. He was Mr. Cretso, a member of your government who described the decision of the S.H.E. ‘Figure’. He was your partner and companion, Mr. Bletchas, Mr. Kammenos's friend, who called on the government to "beat" justice. Cuveda, we didn't hear about this today. I therefore think that the last child in Greece understands that it is funny, at the very least, to give up on you New Democracy for interventions in justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not deny the existence of the NOVARTIS scandal. Mrs Bakoyannis said so very well before. We're telling you all the time. The entire Greek people know that. This is tangible, real and international. However, it is the corporate scandal with unfair competition practices investigated by the international authorities and, of course, there is no other political responsibility and bribes of civilian personnel who have not been in any country. Only in Greece has judicial investigation been guided by the search for nonexistent political responsibilities and a real economic scandal has been turned, which is all we want to investigate in essence, into an inexistent political scandal. It has never been of interest to Mr Tsipras either, but, as we understand, none of you are aware, that justice discovers the truth and that criminal responsibilities should be placed on the part of the parties involved and that charges should be charged at some point. We lost four years with you, so the point of the case is still untrue. And besides all the others, four and a half thousand doctors are still being smashed as suspects, without being able to restore their honor and reputation. However, today, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about the NOVARTIS scandal either. We're not discussing whether this company has conducted unfair competition practices. We are talking about whether and whether there has been a lasting attempt at systematic and unfair intervention and guidance by Mr Papagelopoulos and possibly by other government officials in justice, with a view to - they have all known him - the targeting and extermination of your political opponents. We have still heard Mr Tsipras resign us and provoke us because, he says, we did not include it in our proposal. But the New Democracy is not SYRIZA. And you did well, and you didn't say that, Mr. Lappa, before. We respect the institutions. Your undeniable political responsibilities, Mr Tsipras, were rendered to you by the Greek people on 7 July. However, since the first study of the case-file, there are no clear criminal responsibilities for Mr. Tsipras. Therefore, we will not do what you have done with ruthlessness. We will not refer a former Prime Minister without strong signals. These and worse we leave them to you. Of course, because we have said so before - we want a society in which we are all equal to the law, if during this parliamentary procedure we are proposing - which is in rem, the language of the law - there are other issues arising either for persons or for offences, these will be dealt with. There's no doubt about it. But I really don't understand you. If you are so disturbed that Mr. Tsipras is absent from our proposal, why does he not follow his party and you yourself on the institutional path? It makes us the political bully, but you will allow me to say that it looks like the liking of the Greek films. Many words are poverty. You have the thirty MPs, 'Behold Rhodes, behold and fuck.' We're waiting on your proposal. On the contrary, there are clear indications and responsibilities for Mr Papagelopoulos. For this reason, we have tabled the proposal we are debating today to investigate the possible criminal responsibilities of Mr Papagelopoulos for four offences, one of them a felony, three misdemeanours. It is a mere, fully documented proposal, a serious institutional text that our rapporteur, Mr Ploris, analysed with enthusiasm at the beginning, a text on a serious institutional process. The case-file reveals evidence of Mr. Papagelopoulos. In addition to the submissions of political persons, top judges, not your own hooded witnesses, with strong and nominally make specific charges, what you were asking for before, names. They denounce specific interventions in their work and an attempt by the former Minister to make charges to the detriment of specific political persons. We can't, nobody lets us close our eyes. The rule of law and the legal order require us to examine further these testimonies. We're not going to cover anything. The responsible will answer, whoever they are, wherever they are. Clearly, however, I have said so before that we do not get misinterpreted - we are at a very early stage. In no case do we condemn anyone and apply to everyone the presumption of innocence, of course, also to Mr Papagelopoulos. However, where there is evidence they need to be investigated. After all - I think you remember it too - Mr Papagelopoulos, from that foot there, you were the first to say that if this file comes under your name in the House, you will first ask for the preliminary examination. So everything in the light. I have said and said the third time: we are not saying that Mr Papagelopoulos is guilty. We say that a study of the case-file reveals clear evidence of guilt to be investigated. That is why we are calling for the preliminary committee to be set up, because this is the right institutional route for all to be investigated. We don't want to be spent on endless investigational procedures, etc. We want tangible results to be achieved, not to be shadows over anyone, so that, above all, the prestige of justice, the prestige of the House, can be restored. The committee, after deciding whether it has the power to examine the case, will proceed to the substantive investigation by making public prosecutors aware of the matter. There it is, Mr Lappa, who can open phones and not the Member of Parliament or any Member of Parliament, but you have learned and so you do, suggest that he open up the phones to see the communications.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u161	Is that how you understand? Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u162	That's what you said. Look at the Minutes. Look at them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u163	The pre-inquiry I said, not him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u164	Oh, no. You told Pleasure to do it. One is the truth, what we want to find, which in previous years you have been brutally trespassing, SYRIZA's gentlemen, with the shameful work of the NOVARTIS case. I remind you, why they must not be forgotten and must be repeated, so that the Greek people can hear them again, that on 21 February 2018 here, one of the most important pages of our parliamentary life was written in this sacred Chamber. You know I don't like to use such expressions and such designations, but only in this way can someone - and I'd say, what happened that day in the Parliament of Greece. What did the SYRIZA - ANEL government do then? To satisfy your election audience and possibly Mr. Polakis' push to put your opponents in prison, you slander, hanging in the handkerchiefs, two former Prime Ministers, the former central banker, a Deputy Prime Minister and six ministers. You've been practically smashing Greece. When Mr Pikrammenos - and I sincerely apologise for the roll-call - was hiding from this step he defended his course in the judiciary and the way he served the prime minister's office when he was called, but above all the passage of a lifetime into the service of duty with unselfishness and devotion, then you gentlemen, who are doing that you are not listening now, were breaking out of those benches in laughter. Do you remember that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u165	You don't remember well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u166	The temptation of that man, who alone was to serve his homeland, to you was a moment of opportunityal entertainment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u167	If we distinguished him by the law on the responsibility of the Ministers, the rest would be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u168	That's what we're talking And listen and ask for any apology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u169	With the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u170	Don't interrupt him and it's over. Don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u171	When Antonis Samaras... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Calm down. Because you're the strong ones Mr. Tsipras says today. You're nervous. Well, Mr. Paulakis is here to calm you down. When Antonis Samaras asked for explanations of his charges, you dredged. You chased the former Prime Minister of the country, his family, his heaviest then ill brother, with no evidence. Who? The country's Prime Minister, who fought with all his powers, who burdened his health - and you know that - working night, as he knew, to keep the country, which is our homeland. You tried to drag him through the unsubstantiated testimonials of two witnesses, without ID, with the trailer bags. Shame on you! And all that with the boulder and the cover of your government's contributors, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And where did this mascarata drive, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, where did it lead? Absolutely nowhere. You set up a pre-examination committee to quickly return the case to justice. Why did you do that? To win elections. You failed and you paid for it politically. But the New Democracy won't follow you in this pattern. We are the great, as much as this disturbs you, a people's democratic party that respects the history of our country, its institutions and respects you and still respects your opponents. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We're not setting up constructions to eliminate our political opponents. We choose political confrontation with arguments always win. We are moving with full respect for legal and institutional procedures. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] This attitude of the New Democracy proves that it does not intend to work for the House on political benefits. We are not setting up an examination industry, we are not turning Parliament into a lion pit. On the contrary, with a clear, unequivocal and firm position, we call for the preliminary committee to be set up. This case for us - and take note of it - has a strong institutional footprint, since it offends the principles of the rule of law and modern democracy. Through institutional procedures, we are only struggling to reveal the truth and restore citizens' confidence in the institutions and, above all, in Parliament itself. So we call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to stand up to the circumstances, not to follow what you are doing now, to shed plenty of light and not to hurt Parliament nor any of us in person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u172	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u173	Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, former Deputy Minister of Justice, who is the person in which the proposal for a Special Parliamentary Committee is made for a preliminary examination, is being called on in Stepma. Mr. Papagelopoulos, you have the floor, obviously with tolerance. Twenty minutes are planned, but obviously there will be tolerance to your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u174	Mr President, thank you. I will get rid of your tolerance, and I will even take advantage of it. The previous speaker spoke 20 minutes. I've been being bombed by false slandering for too long. Because I'm an institutional man, I haven't answered publicly. But today I have the opportunity to prove who the makers are and who the slanders are. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess to appearing before you with mixed feelings. I'm very sad, but at the same time I feel great joy and huge relief. I am sad, because without any reason and because I, my family and those who love me, accept a communication, sloppy and barbaric attack. I do not mean today's debate, but the organised criminal plan that has long been extinct and implemented at my expense. I'm not going to be used in ideas exhibitions. I'll speak in particular. I am also sad, because I cannot believe that the New Democracy - and indeed the Chief of State, Mr Mitsotakis - would have called for and would have decided to set up a pre-inquiry committee against me. To a certain extent I understand the political balances and purposes, but I am unthinkable to the traitors of your party who took advantage of the political circumstances and returned to it as'musuals', to blackmail and threaten with new treason, as I read throughout the press - and the pro-government - in order to avenge Tsipras and me. At the same time, however, I feel great relief and joy, because at last I have the opportunity to face up to the truth. Today, but above all in the process to be followed - because the establishment of the committee has been predetermined - the Greek people will hear and learn unknown aspects in the field of politics and justice. Today I'm going to turn my prosecutors into defendants, because that's the reality. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am very sorry, but this is where some morbid brains led me, I have to defend myself, the truth and the well-founded interest and justice and politics. I am obliged to reveal the protagonists, the participants and the assistants with names, addresses and full evidence, of this criminal group that, with an organised plan, attempts to prosecute me, to neutralize me, and why is that? To cover her own responsibilities and to avenge me. It involves people with different backgrounds from both politics and justice - fortunately little - and from the media, too little. I have gathered a number of publications that have been targeting me for months, proclaiming and blackmailing my political persecution. Indeed, because all the serious lawyers have realised that the criminal prosecution for the allegedly construction of the NOVARTIS case is ridiculous - and I will prove this to you today and will prove to be a great fiasco - are desperately trying to provoke new investigations at my expense to continue my gruesome confrontation with the investigations that they are trying to provoke. They write in weekly newspapers or say on specific broadcasts - little - vulgar lies. Fortunately, the press no longer follows them. So they say vulgar lies, trying to blackmail justice investigations, proclaiming them even. They're invoked by agents and secret services. I'm being watched, they're looking for my private life, they're posting photos of social events, that I'm supposedly setting up constructions there. But is that possible? What kind of a maker I am when I pick up my associates and build them in Kifisia, when I know that all the new democrats, ministers, journalists, and I've seen them and seen me and talked? I guess I'm not a predator, I'm an idiot. And that's not all. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I would ask you to respect the position you're trying to put me in. Listen to me. Pardon me, condemn me, execute me, but listen to me. Because if you don't listen to me, the Greek people will hear me. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This is the great judge, not the occasional parliamentary majority or some judges - very few - who have their own reasons, as I will tell you today if you have patience and allow me to speak. And that's not enough. They are anxiously seeking, as I will say below, false witnesses from all places, especially from the area of justice, in order to recruit them in their criminal organization, because it is a criminal organisation and I will prove this tonight. They hope that someone will be found naive, willing to assist them and share their responsibilities with them. What evidence of innocence are we talking about? In my case, they have not been systematically violating this for many months, but they have been so brutal in this. It's all Rasputin's fault. Rasputin, "screaming Rasputin", "they take out the mask of Rasputin", "Rasputin's forensic!" And with what evidence? None! I'll tell you everything. Patience to have. And not only today, because today's only inscriptions will I say. I have all the facts and I will present them to the preliminary committee that the majority of the House will be recommending today for my political persecution. However, as soon as the preliminary report begins, I will take it to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, from which I will ask for my protection, my family and also the justice itself from the actions of this criminal group. I don't have to lose anything anymore, I didn't have to lose either. I'm a retired man. I have not had and have no political ambitions, and those who know me - and I am very much aware of me from the New Democracy party - know that I am a simple, quiet man, but I do not hesitate to go against anyone, no matter how strong, if I feel that I am threatened or imposed by my authorities. By the way, if I was a pistol, wouldn't I have made sure I could get some kind of immunity? Wouldn't I have put a candidate? Tsipras wouldn't protect me? Would he leave me exposed? I shall refer for a moment to the legal part - because I am not very interested in it, and the accusations - particularly the witnesses, the supreme judges, as the previous speaker said, and the evidence - as he says - are so inconsistent with me. I didn't hear any clues. I heard reports of ideas. I shall refer for a moment to Mr Samaras, not to his past, but only to the complaints he has made from time to time. So let's go to the legal place. It refers to the legally sound proposal to set up a preliminary committee that clear indications arise that I have committed a series of offences. The proposal itself puts me at my expense and my attempt to prosecute me morally in order to neutralise and cover up enormous responsibilities of others. What moral automobile am I accused of abuse of power, breach of duty and falsehood? Not only has there been no criminal prosecution for the perpetrators, so there is no moral automation, because there is no automation, but there is also no determination of what the abuse of power is, what the violation of duty and what the falsehood, not even the name of the potential natural perpetrators. It is obvious that you are trying to influence and manipulate the justice that investigates whether the above offences have been committed by prosecutors or others. It is one of many proof that avengement policy is being pursued against me. It's one of many proofs of the real thing that's trying to stand against me. For what challenge and offer and the execution of a crime I am accused of when under Article 186 of the Criminal Code I am required to have given or promised a reward to another to commit a felony or a flood? Who did I promise, or did I give a reward? Why don't your proposal write it down? From what element of the case, who witness said it or what document did I promise or reward someone? And who is he to whom I paid? Furthermore, the first paragraph of the New Democracy proposal on the establishment of the committee states that the prosecutors have forwarded the case-file to the House, without an assessment, i.e. without mentioning any offences. In fact, pro-government press and non-SYRIZA radio commented with surprise on this. It is also noteworthy that the last witnesses who testified to the Prosecutors of the Ice Bay, that is, Mr Stournaras, Mr Venizelos and Mr Samaras, do not at all mention anything at my expense for a moral automobile in any criminal acts of Ms Toulupaki or another prosecutor or any other intervention of mine in the case 'NOVARTIS'. Let's see, then, the inconsistent evidence not of my guilt, but of my innocence. You haven't read the case, gentlemen. Or you read it and you're determined to finish me. But I don't get it easy. In particular, Mr Stournaras, in his statement of 23 September 2019 at the Prosecutor's Office of the Ice Award - the one that was sent the other day and which is a clear sign to make this attempt to prosecute me - he says: 'I do not know if anyone was intervening in the duties of those prosecutors. However, the logical conclusion is that the offence of misuse of power has been committed." Immediate evidence! Mr. Loverdos has not filed a complaint against me, but against the prosecutors against corruption and against the witnesses of the public interest. See in this regard its statement of 19 September 2019 to the Public Prosecutor of the Ice Arena. He says that. Another big, impeccable element! I should have been arrested already. Mr. Avramopoulos, in his statement of 9 September 2019 to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, states: “Because there have been a number of omissions in the investigation of the prosecutors against corruption, concerning my face, I consider...” - to consider - “that these omissions are not a product of negligence or error of prosecutors, but a result of political guidance.” Who were they guided by? Immediate evidence! I'm going to go further on the creative imagination of some people. Mr. Venizelos in his memorandum to the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow a few days ago - element of the file, seek it, read it, and then execute me - he refers to statements by Alexis Tsipras, who, in his view, “just show an increase in the dome of the former Prime Minister”. I shall therefore be referred back to the public with intensifications. For me, it does not absolutely mention anything and it simply refers to the complaints made by Mrs Ryku and Mr Angelis about the role of Rasputin, but without him connecting it to me. But Mr. Angelis and Mrs. Ryuku's statements will be discussed in detail next year. Mrs. Ryku's second statement is another mystery. Let's go, testify, go back, get directions, come back. I'll prove all this! At least the Greek people will find out, to see who the makers are, who the vows are. From the second point of view, therefore, I would like to point out the point made by Mrs Riikos that she cannot know - be careful - whether I have intervened and how Mrs Toulupaki's duties are dealt with. Another disgusting element! After all this, is there any reasonable person who does not understand that my procedure is purely political persecution, which is not just about me, but about Alexis Tsipras, but against whom you dare not move? You don't dare mess with Tsipras. You're messing with me, hoping that the mud you throw on me will stain him a little too. But the flaws and shortcomings of your proposal and the total lack of any evidence against me, as I will expose and then make not only legal scoundrel and ruthless, but they cancel my accusation against me. A charge with such shortcomings, without any place, time, who, with what, is never drafted, nor by the most unrelated prosecutor appointed in the prosecutor's office. But even if it is written, it is cancelled without second thought. But you continue, because you have to go to the end, because the construction and the political persecution against me are predetermined. Mr President, I would like to ask today - and I will repeat my request to the preliminary committee which has been decided on its recommendation - to come to the committee to be set up for all the relevant proceedings, 'NOVARTIS', the complaints of Toulopakis against the appeal, the investigation ordered several months ago, to tell Mrs Ryku who is Rasputin, to see what she said on oath at that time. This is where a question mark is born. Why are complaints against Mr. Complaints being investigated in the Attorney's Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Prosecutors? Is he used to control the chief? Another disgraceful element of the process, not my own, of'some'. The previous speaker said - it also comes from the bad and ridiculous indictment against me - 'but what should we do? It's clear. They have been said by two highest prosecutors, apart from Mr Samaras's complaints. So let's see the statements of the two senior prosecutors. So let's go to Mrs. Riku. Let's start from her last feat, from her testimony to the Attorney of the Ice Arrow, Mr. Sofulaki. The same day he gave two statements, without telling the first that he was interrupted or reserved or anything. I would also point out in advance that she said that her resignation letter - and you will understand why I say that - she does not have it with her. He'll produce it later. Excuse me, I'm accusing Riku of resigning, denounced. We'll see if he denounced and what he said. I have the letter with me and I will submit it to the Minutes. Some people will be ashamed to see me, and I don't mean Mrs. Ryku, I mean those who unwittingly become escorts. So the same day he gave two statements. In her first statement, she doesn't mention anything about Rasputin. It is limited to two calls that I made to her at the end of February and a few days later, at the beginning of March 2017. In the first call it falsely claims that I asked her if there is any involvement of political persons in the ‘NOVARTIS’ case. In the second, after a few days, I said that in an imperative style, "You still didn't send the case-file to the House?". And there are some who think that nonsense is evidence against me. I'll say why it's nonsense. So I wonder about Mrs. Ryku, not why she's lying, but why she's saying it awkward. First, I ask her if there is any involvement of political persons, and she answers that there is not in a few days' time, and I say urgently, 'Why don't you send the case-file to the House?' But who would send her? Send her to the House why? For the political persons who did not exist in the case file? In a case that she herself, said she was formed about a month ago on the initiative of Kontonis? And why would I force her to send the file to the House? Wasn't she legally required to send her immediately to the House? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If there was, not a involvement, but just a name of politics, that was enough. And he needed my own phone call? Where does Mrs. Ryuku say that? [[The ending bell of Mr. Dimitris Papagelopoulos' speaking time is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I will take the least of my time, because I want to defend myself, the truth and the honest judges!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u175	Mr Papagelopoulos, you are obviously entitled to have more time. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I know your kindness. I'll take advantage of her as much as I can! In addition, it must be borne in mind that a number of months later political people finally appeared. What kind of political person does Riku say I was pushing her for? Will it drive us crazy? There's a lot of questions for Mrs. Ryku. As much as it so far, its circles, the marginal weekly papers - I shall refer to them - and those journalists today, few, time-consuming, avoid answering the questions that I have already put in public, will have to answer the preliminary committee - which, unfortunately, you have already decided on - and on them and on many other things that will be put to it. Today I am putting in your judgment, in the judgment of Mrs Rykos' colleagues, but above all in the Greek people's crisis. Ms. Ryku was put as the prosecutor against corruption for the first time in 2013 and her term of office was renewed in June 2015 following a decision of the Supreme Judicial Council. Its choice was made both by a marginal majority, with one vote, that is, six votes in favour and five against. In fact, in 2013, she had just been promoted to an anti-prosecutor, as was Mrs Toulupakis. And many of her colleagues have argued - as they are now saying on the contrary - that she was infinite for prosecutors against corruption. She'd been promoted recently, too. I'm talking about history like that. I do not think either was infinite. Nor do I judge the decision of the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u177	Go on, Mr. Papagelopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u178	Mr President, this time does not count for me. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u179	Don't worry. Ladies and gentlemen, please. The man's talking about the case he's accused of, and you're talking to each other and you're fighting about? A little respect!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u180	I would also like to inform you that many fellow Members, especially senior judges, who, if you like, have a limited perception of stereotypes, say that Mrs Ryku should not accept her appointment because of the marginal majority for reasons of ethicity, since she was strongly questioned by five members in total of eleven. I'm telling you this about history. We're getting to today. Mrs Ryku resigned shortly before her second term expired by letter to the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow. In my resignation letter, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, there is nothing about Rasputin, nothing about Papagelopoulos. He's talking about a big scandal, he's talking about 28 million euros black political money detected. He's talking about corrupt state officials. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. You should have read it since then, but in any case read it now. It concludes that Mrs Ryku: 'Because I have been targeted', not by Rasputin or by me, 'from the paradox of power and corruption aimed at the one and only covert of corrupt state officials who have been earning over the years millions of euros and who are urging the blockage of my investigation'. After a long time, Mrs. Ryku discovered Rasputin. I give the letter for the Minutes, please. [[At this point Mr Dimitrios Papaggiopoulou presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Department of Stenography and Practice.]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I repeat, in her letter of resignation, Mrs Ryku makes absolutely no mention of me, of my contributions to her work and to Rasputin, who discovered him a year and a half later. It is no characteristic and revealing of Mrs Ryku's behaviour that, one and a half years after her resignation, she did not dare to refer to Rasputin itself, but she has had her circles do so without them, but then, a year and a half after her resignation, to name me directly. I've said it before. The prosecutors - yet again! - do they have 'circles'? They're not going out to report? He was an anti-prosecutor, an prosecutor against corruption. Why didn't he go to the Attorney's Attorney to say that and report me? In fact, the prosecutor asks her - I haven't written it, but it came to me now - of the Ice Bay: 'You said this anywhere?', the following. And he answers: 'No, I handled it myself'. With such management, then, send me to the special courthouse if you can fix it today. The special court is too little for my crimes! At this point I must point out that before action was taken, the circles of Mrs Raikou had been made with reports on her doctor's husband on 'NOVARTIS'. I won't say anything else. I'm not involved in my personal life. But it's important. It's obvious the diversion that started to be attempted. Mrs. Raikou testified to Mr. Sofulaki so to the deaf ears that my relationship with Mrs. Toulupakis is well known. But it is also known that my relationship with Mrs Raiku is old colleagues. I'll remind her and I'll tell you that before I became Minister, and then we meet up with various issues, we were eating with our families either outside or in our homes. And then I made these unspeakable calls to her with that kind of relationship we had. He must be ashamed. I continue: When I became Minister, he came to the Ministry and sometimes brought me something indicative, such as sweet or other foods, because he knew my gluttony. Even ties have brought me. Our friendly relationship and intimacy that we had ruled out any possibility of calling her, as she falsely claims and speaking to her urgently. What can I say now? [[Noise in the Chamber]] And watch what I'm going to say, or I'll prove it. But I don't have time to say it now. What should I start? Two years I've been bombed with an ear, but some need to know that the drainage on the road is being punished at least as a sanitary breach. [[Applause - laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Wait a minute, Mr President, and I shall conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u181	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u182	So our friendly relationship and intimacy, in the same office, were when we were prosecutors, for our children we were talking about - must be ashamed! - It excludes any possibility of calling her, as she falsely claims, and speaking to her urgently. I saw her almost every day, I had to call her and say "send her to the House!" Who's to send to the House? We've been through it. There were no politicians back then. In fact, our relations continued after her resignation and we met on her own initiative. Let me remind her - and let her come out - that she would ask me after she had resigned to help her out of the disciplinary papers that were made at the expense of her and her report or reports by an interrogator - I do not remember her name, she mentioned her name in her statement - for a faulty performance of her duties? She was asking me to help her that I was suppressing her. And after eighteen months, her cycles invented Rasputin. Also, Mrs. Raikou on her resignation, if I remember correctly, visited me in my office, at the Ministry, after visiting Mr. Kontonis. She asked me to help her renew her term of office for the third time thanks to our old friendship and good cooperation. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If I swallowed her, I intervened in her work, why did she ask me for the third term? I responded to her - always honestly, because he is me, an idiot sincerely - that this is very difficult, because the Areos Ice never renews service for the third time. In the conversation we had with her she confided that if her term is not renewed, she thinks she should resign from the prosecutor to spend more time with her children who love her - I do know that when they were too young - and she misses her because they study in the United States. Now how all these things can match what Mrs Raichu claims to be about Rasputin's behaviour, only she can explain it. Apart from me, however, I had little to do with Mrs. Tulopakis, Mrs. Ryku and me and Mr. Samaras. I don't know if she remembers it, but she asked me to get them in touch. I brought them. That's for the sake of history. I am not insinuating anything, but to finally see what the role of each and every one of us is in this place. It is obviously quite accidental that, later on, when the prosecutor's position against corruption was created by removing important responsibilities from the prosecutor for economic crime, she was placed in this position in the way I said, immediately after her promotion, Mrs Ryku. Totally random. I am sure Mrs Ryku remembers all this, as she will remember why she wanted to meet with Mr Samaras. However, let us return to Mrs Ryku's double statement on the same day as Mr Sophollakis. The following unrelenting questions are raised here for Mrs Ryku. Why did she come back to testify while she had completed her statement? Where did she go in the intervening of her statements? Did he talk to anyone on the phone or did he meet someone? Did he tell anyone what he had testified? Did he not stay content and instruct her to return and give a further deposit to complete her lies? I explain: In her supplementary statement Mrs Ryku recalled what she did not say in her first statement and referred to the dispute between a well-known journalist and a businessman. What is the point of referring to a private dispute and how did she know or know about it? The answers are obvious. In order to harmonize the above-mentioned publications and prepare the ground for a new construction against me with the journalist, some publishers, etc., because it had been understood in the meantime that the construction of the political persecution against me for the great scandal of "NOVARTIS" evolves into a grand fiasco. Watch out for something now. Many years ago, I was a prosecutor. I don't like roaming, but people who knew me said I was a good prosecutor. And the prosecutor and people he judges and reads papers knows. I would like to say, therefore, that a few days after Mrs Ryku's double statement had already been tabled, and while questions of double submission had already been raised and questions made by Mrs Ryku in her second statement, the weekly newspaper of the well-known Mr. Mitropoulos has been speeded up with extensive reports to justify Mrs. Ryku's double statement. I think two, three days later. In fact, it gave Mr Sofulaki responsibility that she allegedly tried to manipulate Mrs Ryku, taking into account her weight, and Mrs Ryku was forced to come back and, after her own pressure, tabled the supplements, which we said were complementary. Nothing to do with the case. Others. It's a climate to create. And I ask: How does Mr. Mitropoulos know about this? Was he present at Mr. Sofulaki's office at the time of the interview, or did Mr. Sofulakis tell him after accusing himself? It is another ruthless attempt, this time at the expense of Mr Sofulaki, to terrorize him, if they then manage him. Before I finish, however, for today - because I have too much for Mrs Ryku in the preliminary - I will add that, apart from her other flaws, it is also unscrupulous. That's not bad for a prosecutor. As long as he knows legally. He claims that I call myself Rasputin for properties, mechanics, intrigues, constructions, interventions, but not attributed to Rasputin, but to other historical persons. I could call myself if I had these qualities Machiavelli, Meterneich, Talleyrando, as you wish, I don't remember others. Rasputin stayed in history not for mechanics, intrigues, preparations, but for some of his natural qualifications and for his theory that unaltered sex leads to absolute exhaustion and then to the position. It's another proof that I never said myself Rasputin. [[Applause - laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] That's the advance on Mrs. Ryku. Now let's go to Mr. Angelis. Let us consider the unshakable evidence at my expense based on Angel’s strangers and contradictory claims, such as these... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I would like your attention for a moment. I have more to say, not just jokes, and maybe it was my fault that I took care of it, but what am I supposed to do? It's also a clue that I can't tell myself Rasputin. Machiavelli, I should say to him if what Mrs Ryku says is true. So let's see Angelis's foreigners and contradictory allegations, as reflected in his reports to the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena on 7-1-2019 and 21-2-2019, and in his statement to the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Archbishop Mr. Zacharhi on 12 September. His first report doesn't mention anything about Rasputin. For the first time in a month and a half, Rasputin has not done any scripts, other things he has - he has access to the media, he has legal knowledge and synergy - take note, cooperatively speaking - he has no knowledge of secret services as well. So, what's he doing, you young-youth in the tiles? Evidently, Mr Angelis, who cowards - cowardlys - begins to align himself with the false and disgusting construction of Rasputin. He adds that the individual who describes it as a person who knows his or her well-being and designed it all at his expense. Nothing specific, no evidence at all, no mention of my name. As for his well-being, I leave it in your judgment and in the judgment of any well-faithed judge of the actions and behaviour of the Angel, when these are unfolded today and especially in the process that will follow. Also, on page 6 of his second reference, the Angel quite vaguely states to him that he had to leave the middle with the construction of a category at the expense of the Rasputin type. Not yet, Rasputin, but the Rasputin type. Finally, on page 9 of its second reference - take note, gentlemen, of those who speak of a craftsman in the "NOVARTIS" scandal - what your favorite, chosen, Mr Angel that you are adopting today. He says, therefore, that in the documents of the United States, specific persons, primarily politicians, are mentioned, which is interpreted - in his opinion - that the United States is also investigating the responsibilities of political persons. Let some continue, then, to self-immigrate and cry that the NOVARTIS scandal is a serpent. The angel said that, whoever you're trying to take me to the special court and to prison. Hey, drive me with that evidence! Before we can see, however, also Mr. Angelis' allegations in his statement to Mr. Zacharis, the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, let's see who Mr. Angelis is. I don't have to say much today, I might have to say in the future. I shall therefore be content with the following: All Marios Ice, prosecutors, judges, secretaries who have served with him, lawyers who are involved in criminal law - there must also be among you - and unfortunately citizens who have dealt with him in the performance of his duties are well aware of his knowledge, his character and, above all, his behaviour. Mr. Angelis is one of the three supervisors of the Prosecutors against corruption. Before him, the supervisor was the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Award, Dimitris Papageorgiou, and also after him, the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Award of Panagiotis Brakoumatsos. I mean, before the Angel, and then there were two other supervisors. They paradoxically found nothing against Mrs Toulupakis. And Mr. Angeles found nothing. But when his responsibilities began to appear, then he began his well-known tactics, squeezing and accusing. It is characteristic and absolutely revealing for Mr Angelis the sign of his statement to Mr Zacharis, where he - here we may laugh again - states that he has attempted after his resignation as Chief of Toulouse to inform his successor, Mr Brakoumacho, of the situation in the prosecutor's anti-corruption office. Here's what he says. He's not conscious, he seems, what he says, but Mr. Brakkoumatis was kindly avoiding him - that I put it - with a diplomat diplomatic: "Let me, Yannis, I'll find them myself," he said. Have you seen anyone who doesn't want information from the previous one? But now, let us see some other features, but very revealing signs of Mr Angelis' statement. Their evaluation and comment today is yours. In the pre-examination committee, special court or special courthouse, which some would be happy to send me, it would be mine. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of Mr. Papagelopoulos is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the Angel testified. He went to Vienna with Toulupakis and the two assistant prosecutors for the meeting with US prosecutors on the eve of Dimitrios and Papaspyrou. Well, for Mrs. Demetrius, I understand that, Prosecutor of the Ice Bay is. Mrs. Papaspurou, what's she got to do with her? Let's see his credibility. "Mrs. Toulouse's tactics in cooperative terms..." - again synergisticly, no evidence, no evidence - "... led him to the complaints of Ryku for interventions of Rasputin at the Prosecutor against Corruption". Once again, Mr Angelis' conspiracy and imagination lead to Rasputin without any other proof of evidence and without me being identified with Rasputin. As soon as he returned from Vienna, he says, directly from the airport along with Ms. Papaspyrous at Mr. Kaloger's office. What's the rush? Was there anything that was afraid of the Angel in Vienna? What was the reason she waited for him at the airport and accompanied him to the office of Mr. Kalogeros, Mrs. Papaspyrous, with which, as he submits, she had telephone communication while she was in Vienna? What is the reason for this communication? What had happened in Vienna and was afraid of Mr. Angelis and was trying to secure protection from Mr. Kaloger, this inadmissible prosecutor who does not accept a fly in his sword and intervention by Minister? "Rasputin's intervention..." says - in his statements - "...it was evident in other cases". Without any other clarification. Again vaguely without any evidence, without even mentioning a case in which the intervention of Rasputin, this unknown Rasputin, which could ultimately not have been Rasputin, but Talleyyrandos or Machiavelli, as I told you. "Mrs. Toulupakis..." says, "...he wanted to exercise vigilance." Many months have passed since, almost a year and persecution have not been exercised and seven cases at ten have been filed. "After...," he says, "...from a newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" he understands that it is a construction by Rasputin, who, as a logical consequence, has access to this newspaper." It was Rasputin again, without any evidence, but apart from the logic of Mr Angelis and his creative imagination. He's filing it out himself. I'm not talking about it. They're not my claims or my gatherings or my logical sequences. They're statements by Mr. Angelis. He wrote, he says, a detailed report to Mrs Demetrius after the Vienna incident - we need to see what happened there - which got sick, she says, from her contents and went to the hospital twice. Imagine what the woman read! They're driving her crazy! He then claims that Mrs. Demetrius and Mrs. Papaspyrou were convinced to get his report back with the promise that Toulupakis will be removed from the prosecutor's anti-corruption and Rasputin from the government. If all this is the case - I personally give no chance, because I have told you my opinion about Mr Angelis and ask if that opinion is taken by all the judges and prosecutors, and I repeat, I do not believe that they are, but if they are, that you take into account, when voting and you refer me, two things must be done. First, Mrs. Demetrius and Mrs. Papaspyrou have taken a fool, they've fooled him. They didn't drive Tulupaki, and I remained a minister. And if that is the case, we do not have an intervention here in justice, but we have an unauthorised, out-of-the-art and illegal intervention of two senior prosecutors, including Mr Angelis, one of them, who are planning, seeking to remove a minister from the government - so justice intervenes in politics - and the prosecutor against corruption, but which is chosen, placed and replaced by the Supreme Judicial Council. So I'm not the owner, but he's Mr. Angel who's involved in such gatherings. He confessed to having a heart and a confidential relationship with Ms. Demetrius and Ms. Papaspyrous. Here, let me have a prediction. Mr Angelis has begun to present Mrs Papaspyrou, for his own reasons - I believe nothing he says - as a whole present, as an eye to the visions. So don't be surprised - for the reasons I will explain to you immediately afterwards, because this is Mr. Angelis - if in future Mr. Angelis does not turn against Mrs. Papaspyrous, with complaints, with theories about Rasputin and everything else his creative imagination finds. Who is, he says, Rasputin told Mrs. Demetrius, but he doesn't tell him - to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay now - because Mrs. Demetrius might have told him about it in lies. What a disgrace that is! What seriousness is this? Why am I still free? Why don't you arrest me now? Any such evidence at my expense? They know Rasputin, he says, and Mr. Kaloger and Mrs. Papaspyrous. But he doesn't know him. Another disgusting element. Well, did you read the case-file before you signed it before drawing it up? Because the people who signed it, okay, I know how these are signed. What did anyone read or say to you 'we found the easy target, Papaggelopoulos, which has been on him for so long and has been hit by newspapers with contracts for obvious reasons'? And here's how they're going to cover up their responsibilities and incriminate Chipra. Because he tells you, Papagelopoulos can't be. And it makes sense where I was sitting one morning, I said: What am I gonna do today? Let me play some. Let me set up a form. They know this isn't going through. He tells you, we'll hit Papagelopoulos-- they wouldn't dare hit Tsipra-- but the ball and Tsipras will get. We're going to take down Papaggiopoulou, but we're going to break up a little bit of Tsipras. Hey, that's not happening, gentlemen. It's not about that. Make another form, what you're trying to do, which I'm going to tell you. Angelis testifies that he gave instructions to Mrs Toulopakis, whom she did not perform, which means that for him he was a protector and mentor over him. Mr. Angelis has learned about patrons. He knows something about prostates. Because some other circles called me a pimp. But I don't know about pimps and I never had a patron. Everything I did on my own. We will also talk about protectors and those who dared to leak that "with a pimp-like style". Who am I? Ask any prosecutor you want, the most hostile to me, how I talked to them, with what kindness, love and humor. And I'm asking: "I'll speak pirately, if you don't do what I say to you," does it remind anyone of something? The prosecutors will come and say that, see who the pimp is, see who's intervening. I would remind you of the last sentence: "For him, he has been a protector-guide over him". Again Mr Angelis' creative imagination took action, but without any evidence of his claim. Did Mrs Toulupaki simply fail to agree with Angel’s instructions and recommendations because they were contrary to her judicial conscience or even worse, because they were foolish or even illegal? The means of communication, he says, of Rasputin with Toulupaki, through another Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Public Prosecutor - without any figures, without names - he does not know him from his own point of view, but Mrs Demetrius also told him that, as Rasputin also said, he has his own team in the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's office, from which I left from 2006 that I was the head of the Prosecutor. The children who now serve there, the prosecutors who now serve there, were high school seniors, first - year law. Where did I meet them and I did the team? Hey, I'm Rasputin! Again without the name of the prosecutor who was an intermediary, again without the name of the group I set up. Where did I tell you, what team should I set up? But with my "said", "I told you", "I told him" and the café or neighborhood gossip can't be indicted. A pre-examination committee cannot be set up unless it is a political persecution and a political preparation at my expense. Nevertheless, if Mr. Angelis' allegations are not conscious lies or fantasies - I think it is clear now what Mrs. Demetrius was doing? Should we check her for abuse of power, and why did she not send any courtesy to the House for me, with all these terrible and terrible things that happened, which she said to the Angel, but did not tell the Prime Minister and did not carry out her duties against me? But let us also see some other details, but very important ones. Then send me wherever you want. Apart from the above, however, we must not forget that Mr Angelis has filed the complaints of Mr Samaras, Mr Venizelos and others. Have you read his reasoning? We will read it in the committee, which you have decided to set up. And when did Mr. Angel decide to pull the lawsuits out of the file he had put on? When his enormous responsibilities began to be revealed in the investigation of the huge 'NOVARTIS' scandal, which he says is a great scandal. And he blames Toulupakis for not having the ability to carry it out. On the other hand, Toulupaki is my mandated instrument to set up a craftsman, not directly, but in association and creativity - or what - fantasy. It's very typical of the screams of his agony that he won't go to jail. When did they come out? They came out when he got back from Vienna. It is important to see what happened in Vienna. And we'll see. And we'll see who the jury is. We'll see who the handler is. We'll see who the liar is. And we'll see who's honest. But let's go back two, three years. Let's see the Angel's behavior in the case of late Vgenopoulos. Has he not reported and sued the then Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow, Mrs Kotzamani, the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Award of Mr Rasidakis and other colleagues, including - if I recall correctly - was Mr Doyakos, Mr Daskalopoulos, Mrs Ryku, Mrs Tsatani and Mr Ornerakis? He had them sued. He had them reported. These cases are still running. We'll see about all this. Mr Angelis recalls that he was trying to convince me - listen carefully - that some of the above prosecutors wanted not only his morality - and now he is talking about the moral extermination of the Rasputin type, yet that was what they wanted - extermination, but also his physical extermination and that, along with Vgenopoulos, they had set up a criminal organisation and asked me to tell the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and he would come - because at that time I was considering the occasion of the Tsatani complaints in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency - to confirm them. Also, what else did he say to me? He told me that Mr. Venizelos supported Venizelos at the time, because members of Mr. Venizelos' family had financial transactions with Mr. Vinopoulou's companies. And I'm not making this up. I will prove that, not only because I have not adopted Mr Angelis' fantasies, especially as regards his physical extermination. They wanted to kill him, that is, senior prosecutors. That's what Mr. Angelis said. He's sued. In the proceedings, she writes that Mrs. Kojamani made a gesture against him in her office. Mercy! Again, a few counting on me. Totally vaguely as Rasputin I was circulating there as a higher force. I'm a god, a summer sun and I don't know what else he says. Look at these. I'm not talking about it. He says it in his lawsuits. Because I did not adopt these things - and how could I adopt them? - but I immediately took care to interrupt any relationship and contact with him, Mr. Angelis is now turning against me, not forgiving me that I couldn't identify myself with such nonsense. At the same time, he tries to cover up their own responsibilities as supervisor. I shall end today with Mr Angelis, saying that when I refused to adopt his claim for economic relations with the late Vgenopoulos with members of the Venizelos family - and how could I do so with what elements? By "saying, "told you, "te"? - after a while...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u183	Mr. Papaggiopoulou, we'll fill in the time I'm in. What do you predict?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u184	Five more minutes and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u185	We're waiting for evidence!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u186	All that I told you what it was? I say these leaks, who did them? Is leakage not known? I left for the end, Mr. Samaras, because we said that the indictment is based on the Ryku, Angelis and Mr. Samaras' lawsuits. I'll speed up. So I left for the end, Mr Samaras, the man who has been afflicted for many years and our country and the New Democracy party. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] [[Protests from the New Democracy Ward]] Today I am not going to talk about the past and Mr Samara's political choices. I am not going to mention any disgrace or treason or his choice in the Presidential election in 1996. I am not going to mention the small party of centre-rights and everything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u187	That's not what we're interested in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u188	You don't care. I'm indicted, and I can say what I want. Do you want to humiliate me before you execute me? Get me out of here! You know, from movies I've seen that the dying closes their eyes, not the mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u189	You're not a defendant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u190	It's predetermined. Come on! I will not go into the meetings and discussions that I have had with Mr Samaras, following his return to New Democracy, when he has in turn been a Member of Parliament, a Member of Parliament, a Minister, a Head of the New Democracy, a Prime Minister. But then, look out! - when I became a minister - I want to set up a craftsman against him - he saw me after I was a minister. If it were necessary, however, just before the firing squad, I would mention what he was saying to me, what he called me some and what things he was asking me about and begging me for.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u191	Go on! Now say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u192	Mr Polakis, I have principles and principles for private debates. They only allow me to use them in the last resort. [[Protests from the New Democracy Ward]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in two minutes. That's the point. Today, then, I will only refer to the complaints made by Mr Samaras when he is in a difficult position and is trying to cover up his responsibilities. Mr. Samaras has not only sued Alexis Tsipras, me, the prosecutors who investigate "NOVARTIS", the witnesses and anyone else who finds himself before him and considers him his enemy. He has previously sued Constantine Mitsotakis. Samaras himself in his interview...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u193	What does Samaras have to do with "NOVARTIS"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u194	I'm old, and I remember them, I'm not a mousse. Samaras himself had stated in an interview with a television station that he had resorted to justice - Mr Samaras - in order to protect his honor and reputation from the charges of Mitsotakis, according to which - the Mitsotakis categories - was financed to take the Government of New Democracy in 1993. Also, he had achieved with his well-known enthusiasm against Constantine Mitsotakis, saying he has no credibility. We hear the same thing, that we're unreliable. It produces mud and is based on the doctrine of the amnesia of the people. I'm saying exactly his words. The old must remember them, the others look for them, so that we can see the conduct of lawsuits over time. The rest we'll see later. The only logic, he says, of the late Mitsotakis was to achieve its ambitions for Dora. But let's see another lawsuit from Mr. Samaras. Constantine Mitsotakis, 16-10-2000 in an interview with "BIMA", said that there was a normal takeover of Samara and that in the 1993 elections the Spring Politics, Mr. Samaras' party, held the most wealthy election campaign. That's not what we're interested in. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Samaras answered in his friendly and ordinary way. He told Mitsotakis again and stated uneasy with these very words: "It is political manhood, the high priest of interlocutors" etc. He also filed another lawsuit in the past. He sued the late government spokesman, Vassilis Magina, because he, too, told him something that Mr. Samaras did not like. I'm not saying why he sued him, because I'm afraid you'll get tired of all this. I'll see you in the preliminary. It is not the first time, therefore, that Mr Samaras resorts to legal proceedings and talks about plaiting and construction at his expense. It cannot be ruled out in the future that he will sue Mr Mitsotakis if he does not become President of the Republic, because for the second time he will not dare to throw the Government of the New Democracy down. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware that you will proceed to a preliminary committee, because the decision on the avengement policy against me is not a product of evidence, but of political feasibility and party balances. So continue the process at my expense until the end! It is based on clearly false and self-determined statements by Mr Angelis, Mrs Rykus and Mr Samaras! You are also relying on the headlines and the publications, as well as on the radio broadcasts of Kourtakis, Genos, Metropolis and another that I do not mention, not to give him an ad, but to "bang" from a distance of his very close relationships with the prosecutor of corruption in the past. For many months, monstrous lies have been heard and written to create a climate against me. Their failure has been vulgar. I speed up, so I can finally finish. They've perceived it and to prevent their rabies fiasco from causing new research at my expense. They were not content with invoking illegal cassettes from secret services and other mafia-like para-state methods. Imagine, they admit that as Minister I was being watched by Greek services! They are attempting with pressure, threats, blackmail, flattery - there is something about various sums - to recruit false witnesses to testify against me. They came to the point of calling public prosecutors or anyone to add, after at least three years, their lies to the new building that they are trying to put at my expense because it does not come out of them. I'm expecting everything from them and I'm properly prepared. The questions that will be asked will be relentless and the revelations are shocking for all those involved in the new construction at my expense. I will denounce them not only in justice, but above all in the Greek people. It's now obvious that this is a criminal organization with mobsters...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u195	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u196	Will you let me finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u197	Come on, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u198	I told you to read the papers. Don't you read? Aren't they threatening me? Aren't they telling someone else to come and say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u199	Who are the makers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u200	You!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u201	I can explain: I don't mean the New Democracy party. I don't mean it, don't misinterpret my words. I have another opinion on the New Democracy myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u202	Quiet, please! The man wants to finish and you won't let him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u203	That is why I said that I am sorry that today the New Democracy Government is taking part in this operation at my expense. That's why I said it. They're targeting me, but they're not just hurting me. They are hitting first and foremost the justice that is going against these methods. And they're hitting the country's political system. The Greek people must learn the truth about the false witnesses that have appeared and about the small portion of the press I mentioned before, to offer them the reward they deserve - at the very least? - to increase the poor circulation of their forms. Last case - and I am ending, but Mr Ploris mentioned it, which is why I put it - of the immoral attack I accept was the front page of the newspaper "First Theme" last Sunday, which had nothing to do with the truth about the headline title, as is shown by the newspaper's media pages. Assuming I pushed somebody again - not a judge or a prosecutor this time - without my authority. They put pressure on me to express my opinion on the Interministerial Committee, which involved two other ministers, and which was set up to protect the interests of the Greek State, who were at risk of a great loss of millions of euros, because of criminal errors - at least in a decade's time - and to make a major investment which has been cancerd for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the committee that is to be set up today will do its work impartially and not with micro-party purposes, such as the one that is heard that it will send the case back to justice, because it is allegedly unjustified to judge me. If this is the case, a top process provided for in the Constitution will be fascinated and the committee will be self-sufficient. I will say one: The funny accusations I have been accused of relate to acts that I supposedly acted as Minister rather than as a retired person or anything else. After all, the alleged violation of my duty as New Democracy's proposal is an infringement of the duty of the Minister. The private person, as known, does not commit a breach of duty. Thank you for your time and especially for your attention and, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u204	We are in the following phase: After the speech by Mr Papagelopoulos, I will make a brief formal announcement, then Mr Velopoulos has asked for the floor for a minute, to make a statement, and immediately after that we have the outstandingness of the parliamentary representatives, apart from the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, and the single list of speakers, who will speak for five minutes each. The list was originally registered as twelve speakers, two of which have been deleted. Congressman Ms Ahtsioglou is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 16 to 17 October 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u205	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u206	Mr President, thank you very much. I have listened carefully to all the speakers, and I have listened to Mr Papagelopoulos. The New Democracy rapporteur told us that others might be found along the way. Name, last name he didn't tell us. So you are chasing as a New Democracy the moral automobile and not the natural automobile. So you want to arrest the gun and not the killer. You want to arrest a gun, as you mean it, and the moralist of this crime - and of the construction, if you will - but you release the natural motorist, who is Mr. Tsipras, who himself wants to be tried, asks him to do so. In my opinion, you're cowards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u207	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u208	I'm not having a dialogue with you, sir. You're cowards, and I'll prove it now. So you want, on the basis of this case-file we have all read, with the "speakings, leavings", "theorem", "I believe", "I think", to lead this gentleman to the preliminary committee? Let's do it. But when there's the name of Tsipras from Venizelos and Samaras, why shouldn't we? We should do that, too. So, if you don't put Tsipras in the cedar, you're still accomplices to a cover-up. You cover up the Skopje, cover up the Matty, cover up that, too? So you are the cover-up of Mr. Tsipras' crimes, as you were saying. As you have covered Mr Tsipras and for the first half of bad governance and any criminal responsibilities. Innocent, then, for everything. And when we talk about everything, about everything! So ask your voters what they have to say about Skopje, for the first half of the year, about Eye and what you are doing today, that is, cover it up, and let's talk about it in here again. Unfortunately, Mr President, if the gentlemen are proud, the world outside is not proud. They're exactly the same as SYRIZA. You're the same as SYRIZA. You're the same on everything. "It has a constant state" and you go to the same rhythm not only for Skopje, but also for the rest. You are flesh from their flesh. Repeat: The state has been on the move for you. In our logic, the state only keeps on doing well. It's changing in the wrong direction. In conclusion, I would like to say that we have found Rasputin. Where'd Rasputin go, guys? He was around here somewhere. Did you find the crate? You found Rasputin. Where'd you take him? You hid him? And "Charos" is Tsipras, in your opinion, as a masturbator, a radio. So why do you relieve him? Friends and friends, Mr President, we leave New Democracy alone and leave. We don't go into these cover-up games by SYRIZA. We're not gonna make their game. We're leaving. I'll see you in the pre-review, though, because we have a lot to talk about. "Standards" doesn't work. So acquittal SYRIZA and Tsipras and you make this government...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u209	We will enter the single list of speakers and the parliamentary representatives will speak among their colleagues. Mr. Ioannis Bougas, from the New Democracy, is called in Stepma for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to Mr Papaggiopoulou and can say that he fully confirmed the name 'Raspatin'. Because it wants a great deal of courage for someone you accused, who you sent without any evidence at all to justice, when he is the former Prime Minister of the country, to come today and implied that you continue the slandering at him. Mr Papagelopoulos, ladies and gentlemen, he is too small to speak of the spirit of Samaras and any Chief of the New Democracy! [[Laughing - Protests from the SYRIZA wing (Applause from the New Democracy wing)]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that you have been disappointed today by the presence of Mr Papagelopoulos. He let you down completely. You were expecting an apology that would give you arguments. But what did Mr. Papagelopoulos do? I won't say that he confirmed, but at least he didn't squeeze the evidence of the case. He only served on characterizations, without submitting any element he said: "I reserve them for the pre-examination." It has attempted to draw conclusions on catalytic catalysts in the context of the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. He offended former colleagues. He diligently isolated few points of the deposits, distorted them completely to structure his defence and avoided directly stating that he had absolutely no involvement for what they testify to him, namely that he did not force the judiciary to do what they vow to do on oath. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Finally, Mr Papagelopoulos did not give any incentive to his former colleagues, with whom he admitted that he had excellent relations. Indeed, as mentioned by our rapporteur, he had praised Mr Angelis' moral and service capacity, speaking of an honest and unmistakable prosecutor. The honest and unmistakable prosecutor how today became a marginal personality in the public prosecutor's field? Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people gave the recent elections a strong mandate to the New Democracy for universal political change, a change which certainly includes not only reforms in the fields of economy, education, civil security, but, above all, the institutional reconstruction of the country, the independence of justice which is the last refuge for the citizens. SYRIZA claimed during his government term that he wanted to investigate the "NOVARTIS" case, a pretext, as it proved to be, as it did nothing to investigate it. He did not even propose setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate the aspects of the case, while at the same time, during the period in charge of governance, he was more favourable to the company and its policy interests. The Party of Officerial Response is accused that in reality all that was concerned was the targeting and extermination of his political opponents, who chose with political and only criteria to involve them, to lead them without evidence to justice. This effort has, of course, met the immediate and strong reaction of the people affected. He also met the fierce reaction of the judiciary officers, intervened by the previous government to achieve its unfair aims. The intensity and frequency of pressures that are unauthorized and illegally alleged to have been exercised to the judiciary officials by persons of the SYRIZA government in order to bend their consciences and violate the law to exercise without evidence of persecution, is concluded by the intense and unprecedented way in which the judiciaries who accepted the pressures reacted publicly. It is also concluded by the acute announcements of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors and the clear interventions of the Plenipotentiaries of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, as you are well aware, documents containing complaints, statements and testimonies have recently been sent to the House. These statements, together with the other elements of the case-file, give rise to sufficient and clear evidence for a systematic and organised judiciary control and manipulation operation, with a view to targeting specific persons who the previous government sought to prosecute criminally to obtain political benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u211	Mr. Comrade, you've been over five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u212	Mr President, I shall end. The executive arm of this conduct seems to be the former Deputy Minister of Justice Dimitris Papagelopoulos, who is either directly named or no doubt indicated by the witnesses. From the overview of all the documents and not their fragmentary and selective reading, they are legally fulfilled at the expense of Mr. Papagelopoulos the subjective and objective presence of the following crimes: first, the moral automobile in the abuse of power by physical combination and direct synergy of judicial officers. Mr. Papaggioulou allegedly intervened in the administration of justice, namely, by exploiting his post, provoking or provoking threats, even blackmail, the prosecutors who investigated the case without evidence of criminal prosecution against the ten political persons involved in the case. Secondly, the challenge and offer of committing a crime. Thirdly, moral automobiles in breach of duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u213	Mr. Comrade, you've reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u214	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. It is clear from the information in the case-file that it has caused the public prosecutors the decision to violate their duty. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Members, unlike what has happened in the recent past, would never violate our conscience to expel former Minister for the sake of political purposes. But our institutional role and our responsibility towards the people prevents us from ignoring the facts. All that has been mentioned is clear and adequate evidence that requires the setting-up of a Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination against the former Deputy Minister of Justice Dimitrios Papagelopoulos. The committee, without political purposes, with soberings and institutional guarantees with which it is surrounded, will examine and evaluate all evidence on the basis of the provisions of the Constitution, Criminal Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. On the basis of the presumption of innocence and the fundamental principle of our Criminal Law 'in dibio pro mitiore', it will decide whether to retreat and eliminate or instead confirm and strengthen existing evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u215	Mr. Colleague, you've reached eight minutes. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u216	I shall conclude in five seconds, Mr President. The Members of the New Democracy who have submitted and supported the proposal to set up a Special Parliamentary Committee understand this act as a top task, the fulfilment of which also sends the message that the present Government, as a responsible government of an orderly state and of the rule of law, does not tolerate unfair interference aimed at manipulating justice and is determined to dismantle any group of actions within it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u217	Mr Colleague, I would ask you very much to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u218	We call on the Party of Officers to avoid good excuses and unfounded escapades. And if, he claims, he has nothing to fear, to vote in favour of our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u219	Mr. Loverdos has asked for the floor. I want to tell you this, ladies and gentlemen. If speakers continue to go on over time, as the previous speaker has done, know that this is about the House and the procedure, because it will go back at least for an hour. I want to tell everyone so that you themselves can try to be within your time. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u220	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate I have been waiting for six hundred days since I was in the United States on a mission from Parliament, and I have been informed about what had happened in Athens with the escort of Ministers, the attendance of the National File Representation for ten political persons. Of course, because the truth is once and for all known to me - and to a lot of people from the outset and to many politicians - I thought that this day would be for some ministers who at the time were speaking in this case revealing and what was behind us. I did not believe that this day, when Parliament will decide to set up the criminal pre-trial committee, the criminal pre-examination committee, will concern Mr Papagelopoulos. Others I had in mind of what they were saying. I was sent to the United States the statement by Mr. Papagelopoulos and I read it all. In previous meetings, I have repeated it and today it does not bother me - I hope it does not bother you - to read it again. "I would also like to say," he said outside Maximos, when he parade along with the case-file, "that I received a little earlier" - I repeat, illegally, that was not entitled - "for the details of the case-file. And my experience as prosecutor, he said, "I am inviting myself to the conclusion that this is the biggest scandal of the Greek state". As I say: "Greek justice has done its duty and I am sure it will then. However, the Greek people also demand the duty of the political world to do so," he gave us advice! - "remove over micro-participatory purposes, lift and achieve self-cleaning". Verbatim, that is his statement. So you understood from the outset that a plan that exists, that man as a member of the government, and he knows it and guides it. But, other politically, he knows it and guides it and there is evidence of a moral automation in a felony and delinquency. I've been saying everywhere that behind this story is Mr. Papagelopoulos. I've been saying it all over. But then you say it politically, and then you decide to propose to the National Representation the setting up of a criminal pre-examination panel for felony and misdemeanor. The terms of Criminal Law are strict terms and no one can exploit them to do their political part. He came to Parliament, when this case had been cleared, after a month of that statement, and he said to us "I didn't mean politicians". We were here. He didn't mean politicians, but he made statements about the parade of the files ten politicians outside of Maximos, where he met a small group under the Prime Minister on this matter. I have immediately thought, ladies and gentlemen, that his point of view has been understood, that what he said revealed his intentions and possibly his role and he attempted to cover himself in vain. The case to this end is a case filled with political affairs in the sense that 'I think the a, b, c may have played a role'. But listen: two prosecutors - things are known, I will not repeat them - Mrs Ryku and Mr Angelis, and they say things that remind us of what another prosecutor, Mrs Tsatani, has said a year ago in another case. It's three. Three prosecutors have been talking about another case so far. My mind goes right away: “Why didn’t this happen when Mr. Nicoludis was a State Secretary? Why did you get him out of the government?" I've asked the National Representation about ten times. Why did Mr. Nicoludis, who was the prosecutor, not do to the Prime Minister? Another prosecutor was involved in governmental patterns and either kicked out or retired. We're learning the second. She was reluctant - she sounds - and she didn't stay. I have nothing more to say, nor do I know more. We've got the case of unpriced Kurubli. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, as Mr Kegeroglou, myself, and Mrs Christophilopoulou quoted Areos Ice as illegally omitted one of the two invoices of 2015. This report was received by Mrs Ryku and then by Mrs Toulupakis. Mrs. Tulupaki didn't do anything for her. Mrs Toulupakis kept it, the deadline for Parliament to check, that is to say, what we call a limitation and sent it unprocessed together with the 'NOVARTIS' file. This means that a certain order was being carried out. She couldn't do these things on her own. A prosecutor with such a complaint must, after seeing if there is any evidence, as Mr Zacharis has now done, and as Mrs Demetriou has done last year, these things should be sent straight to Parliament. He kept it - take care - and sent it along with NOVARTIS - irrelevant - in order to eliminate our ability to control Mr Kurubli. We read on Sunday that Mr. Papagelopoulos took part in a meeting of the board of directors of a legal person governed by public law. Minister takes part in a meeting of a legal person governed by public law where he asks them, before the arbitration decides, to make certain decisions in favour of an undertaking. Arbitration has justified the operation, so the problem is not the substance. The problem is a process in which no serious parliamentary party in a Eurozone country could be understood. A Minister - and indeed completely unresponsible - attends a board meeting, asks them to make a political choice before the arbitration, and SYRIZA denounces it, the person present as president of the public company of the legal person concerned with public property and on Sunday we read it in the newspapers. Public Prosecutor's assessment is made of the location of the prosecutor's corruption and is evaluated in her file and the complaint is missing. I record one by one - and I do not want to say enough - a system of misconduct, which operates in the field of justice through specific people, and the prosecutors themselves show as a member of the government that is suffering it, guides it and gives orders, Mr Papaggiopoulou. This will be investigated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u221	It's gone. Mrs. Ryku...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u222	You're welcome. This will be investigated. It can't be investigated. There is a felony committed and three misdemeanors committed. It's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u223	Mr. Loverdo, you're in eight minutes. Do you want one or two more minutes? How much do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u224	I'll be closed in one and a half minutes, Mr. President. Now, then, it is time for witnesses to be called, for the hooded witnesses who have tabled both here and in America. How do we know the faces have testified here and in America and are they the same? From the third cocoonman, who did not accept without any evidence to name three plus two, namely five politicians who were told, with the following threats, ladies and gentlemen: "The ones you go and don't give will never be MPs again and the elections won't win their parties. Another party will win the election. Look at your family. You will never see your children again." He's gonna say that here in the House. What does that remind you of, junta? What if it reminds people of a civil war, which side of the civil war? What's that? How does a democrat tolerate such procedures and methods in a Member State of the Eurozone? They will come here, ladies and gentlemen. Because the most recent Prime Minister, who really has no shame, says what he says and threatens to make what he promised in the preliminary examination committee, sends him a message, clear and unequivocal. She said, Mrs Gennamas very clearly, that this case will be in depth and high. Anyone, apart from Mr Papagelopoulos, who has been involved, Minister or Minister, will go to the special court to be judged in the Constitution and the laws, in so far as evidence is evident and not by the methods that have been used.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u225	Mr. Loverdo, we're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u226	I'm closed, Mr. President. I am a parliamentary representative, I know that our President has spoken, but I want another minute and I have closed. What, ladies and gentlemen, is the felony in this case? The New Republic's request shall be recorded. What's the felony? The misuse of power involved. What abuse of authority is it? A guilty man to make him innocent - here we have the case of Kurubl, I'm not saying he's guilty, I'm saying he didn't allow the main prosecutor to investigate his case - and his backwards, an innocent man to make him guilty. In that case...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u227	What prosecutor? Mrs. Ryuku...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u228	You're wrong, you don't know them. Mrs. Tulupaki has taken care of it, Mr. Lappa. He took it and sent it in 2018. He had time to send it in time. Therefore, these offences will be controlled by the moral automobile industry and because Article 86 of the Constitution stipulates that, in the event that this is identified, all of them will be judged by a special court. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is invincible and the truth will shine. How many weeks or months more, we'll see. Two years of suffering is what went through the entire political system and Greece. The truth will shine, but when the truth shines, some will be punished as the Constitution and the law impose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mrs Fotou, the parliamentary representatives have the opportunity to speak, so we will give Mr Janakopoulos the floor. Don't be in a hurry. They just have the possibility for less time. Come on, Mr. Janakopoulos. I'm just explaining to your colleague the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u230	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, what this debate is today, namely a fiasco for the New Democracy and for all its allegations over the last two and a half years, as long as this case is held, as well as for the claims made by the Change Movement, it is mainly demonstrated by the centrifuge of its President, Mr Mitsotakis, but also by all its Members. Obviously, because Mr Mitsotakis knew that he would accept this political criticism on the part of the Anti-Population, he had prepared his defence, which Mr Lebanese, who came here and read to us, in relation to the argument about separation between executive and legislative authority. Let me remind you that the Members of Parliament - the ministers of the New Democracy belong to both powers, both to the executive and to the legislative system. The fact that Mr Mitsotakis is chosen - on the pretext of not involving the executive in a debate concerning Parliament - that he has not appeared here today shows something else. It shows that it does not want to get a political choice on it, which it makes as President of the New Democracy, trying to keep its internal-party balances. In other words, the demands of the Samara Group within you, which we know very well that he asks for the head of Alexis Tsipras on a table, along with Mr Georgiadis and various other extremes, whom you have gathered in the New Democracy and otherwise you represent the centre, reformist and liberal party. After all, your central reform turn seemed to be from whom you chose to propose your current proposal to the Greek Parliament. But let me tell you what Mr. Mitsotakis is doing with this. He manages and does not satisfy Mr Samaras, and he appears as a political coward to come here to defend the political account and the political claim and all this political strife, which he has used to rise to power. For two years, the effort made by the SYRIZA government to get to the surface issues of transparency and the corruption of the old political system, which went bankrupt the country, was, in fact, in response to the allegedly intervention in justice. So Mr Mitsotakis does not even have the courage today to come to defend the policy that brought him to power. The Eye, the appointment of Mr. Tsouvala who first asked for his resignation, and then made him head of the Ministry of Civil Protection, the refugee issue where at first was related to the fact that the SYRIZA could not guard the borders, and then became a geopolitical issue, the fucking papa in Macedonian. After that, the fourth major political deterioration on the part of Mr Mitsotakis comes. He now leaves aside and puts others to defend that basic political choice, which he has used to rise to power. It was a maximum hypocrisy to use these legal pseudo-factors to separate the executive from legislative power to justify the absence of Mr Mitsotakis from a battle he had shown as a maximum political battle over the past period. So, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is critical, very critical, but not very serious, as an Austrian writer said, extremely important. Because the preliminary committee we are debating today is not the only one on the agenda. There is also another preliminary examination, which is under way and which is of similar seriousness and similar documentation to the preliminary committee that you are proposing today. Do you know what this is about? On the complaints made by your Member, Mr Papadimitriou, according to which the previous government in the Maximos House was sharing hashish - it says - to foreign press correspondents, so that they criticized Mr Mitsotakis. We could also be serious if we were to discuss this issue today, because the preliminary committee which you are proposing for Mr Papagelopoulos is of corresponding seriousness and with the corresponding documentation he comes before Parliament. Be careful to see, Mr Papagelopoulos told you very well - his laws were quite clear - that you cannot seek the moral engine of a crime for which you do not know and do not name the natural automobile. That's the legal alphabet. But that is not the point. The question is your political feasibility, it is not legal. Because your law can't stand either before a first-year student or a first-year law student. But this crook is still dangerous. That is why I say that the situation is critical. It is crucial for the country, crucial for the rule of law, for the sense of civil law and for the future. For here, what is the political feasibility that guides all this theory of preparation? The political feasibility that guides the theory of construction is the effort to cover up a huge political and economic scandal, a global scandal, through the construction of a pseudoscandal, which is the construction. In other words, as a smokescreen, the pseudo-standard "NOVARTIS" operates, in other words, in order not to hear a single phrase. We know very well that whenever it comes to the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, both the Change Movement and the New Democracy are in an extremely difficult position. So what is this NOVARTIS scandal? I will tell you very briefly, because we will have too much time to talk to the preliminary examination committee and you will be in an extremely difficult position. And because I see that many want to characterise this scandal as a corporate scandal, as a scandal without political implications, as a scandal that does not touch the political leaderships that ruled the country for thirty, forty years, I can remind you that it is not just a doctor's corruption scandal. It's also an overpriced drug scandal. And that was what Mrs Bakoyannis also accepted in her brief position a few hours ago. But do you know that the overpricing of medicines is not done without the signature of a minister? They're not invoiced by the companies themselves. Companies themselves do not determine the price level of the medicinal product. Signatures of Ministers are required. It requires intervention from the Ministers. Because they are the ministers who put the final signature on the drug price list. If, as Mrs Bakoyannis said earlier, we do have an overpriced drug scandal, a minister should give a reason for that. It is precisely in this sense that the 'NOVARTIS' scandal has political implications. Some examples of extremely enlightening are in the 2011-2012 finding. The example of Gilenya medicine is extremely enlightening. For while the price of this medicine had to be fixed, on the basis of the three lowest prices at the time, at around EUR 1.850 - not a hospital price you invoke - it was determined by rounding down to EUR 1,930. And then, in the new drug price sheet issued a few months later, it was invoiced to EUR 1,920. This is only one of five percent of the fifty examples checked by inspectors - five percent of the fifty - and they make up the real picture of the real scandal, which then leads to the theory of construction. I'll tell you something about the arrangements. Don't say it so loudly, because he's spoken from this one, Step and Mr. Tsohatopoulos. For a construction from this one, the Step...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u231	Mr. Janakopoulos, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u232	I don't know, maybe you don't like what I'm saying, but I have to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u233	I understand that you want Mr. Loverdo's time. You should know, Mr. Janakopoulou, that Mr. Loverdos has spoken for twelve minutes. I'm just telling you, we're 11 minutes away. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u234	I shall end, Mr President, in a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u236	Another person who had spoken of a service was Mr. Papantoniou, also a PASOK official.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u237	However, a number of cases were filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u238	Mr. Papantoniou?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u239	Mr. Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u240	Well, let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u241	Please, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u242	So a lot of people had talked about a procession from this one. I'd say, when you talk about crafting, be extremely careful. I could say more about the NOVARTIS scandal, about the terms on which it existed - and Mr Paulis will say so - about the bond haircut and the PSI. I could say that NOVARTIS had chosen Greece as a country that was extremely open for...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u243	Mr. Janakopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u244	I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u245	You've been over 12 minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u246	I know you don't like what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u247	Mr. Janakopoulos, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u248	Okay. Greece is a reference country for twenty-nine initials and then for fifty countries. So this is an international scandal. I'll go. And I will close this for a minute, Mr President. Let's say now about the theory of practicing. The theory of manufacture began first with the complaint made by the then opposition, major and minor, that allegedly their protected witnesses had guided and had them say what they said, the SYRIZA government, a secret circle that guided the yarns behind the curtains, etc. We've forgotten about that now. Those aren't there. Today the theory of construction is based on two testimonies, Mrs. Rykus and Mr. Angelis. And for thirty seconds, let me say. I ask: on what basis will we judge the credibility of the statements made by Mrs Ryku and Mr Angelis? Because Mrs Ryku, when she left the prosecutor's office of corruption, complained that the reason she is leaving is that she is not allowed to investigate the NOVARTIS scandal - she says in her resignation letter - possible criminal responsibilities of political persons. Today Mrs. Riku feeds the theory of Rasputin.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u249	Mr. Janakopoulos, you've reached fourteen minutes. Will you finish or continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u250	In a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u251	You said a few seconds ago, Mr. Janakopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u252	The criterion on the basis of which we choose today's statement by Mrs Ryku or Mrs Ryku's statement twenty days ago, in any case, and not that one, what is it? I'll tell you what the criterion is. It is the criterion of political feasibility. The same applies to Mr Angel who could say exactly the same thing. In four different cases he has said four different things. And the question is, what criteria do we choose...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u253	Mr. Janakopoulos, please very much, you've reached fifteen minutes! No other speaker has arrived in the 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u254	Mr. Lebanese has arrived twenty-one minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u255	As a parliamentary representative, Mr. Janakopoulos. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u256	Let Mr. Mitsotakis be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u257	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u258	You'll hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u259	Mr. Janakopoulos, I'm trying to fix the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u260	You will find yourself in a difficult position to hear what you have caused.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u261	Mr Janakopoulos, please very much have to complete your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u262	The theory of construction is nothing but the smokescreen or so that you can have the great operation of misleading and manipulating the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u263	Mr. Janakopoulos, please very much, you've exceeded 15 minutes. No other Parliamentary spokesman has spoken...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u264	Let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u265	Please, Mr. Polakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u266	As much as you wish, Mr President, I will conclude and say what I want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u267	But, Mr. Janakopoulou, you yourself asked me not to exceed the time. And you've reached fifteen minutes! How is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u268	You want to mislead, manipulate, disorientate! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u269	You yourself asked me not to talk more time and you arrived at fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u270	Did I ask you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u271	Ask, when I said that speakers should not speak any more. Mr. Loverdos spoke 12 minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u272	You're not going to comment on me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u273	I didn't understand you. And of course, I would like to comment on your time. Six minutes was your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u274	Mr. Lebanese spoke twenty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u275	Mr. Mitsotakis didn't speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u276	Let Mr. Mitsotakis be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u277	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u278	You don't want to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u279	Please! On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Janakopoulos, Mr. Loverdos, because Mrs. Gennamas was here, she had half the time. He had six minutes, spoke 12 minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u280	Look at the time. We're all the same in this story. Let go of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u281	You again had six minutes instead, because Mr. Tsipras spoke, six minutes and you reached fifteen and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u282	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u283	Mr. Giolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume the government is watching hidden or hypocritical because I certainly see hypocrisy. It does not explain otherwise the attempt to avoid coming to place itself on the substance, namely the scandal. I wanted to ask the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who put things on a constitutional basis, whether there is any postponement or suspension of the parliamentary status of Ministers? The New Democracy Party is not taking part in this top parliamentary process today? Is it accidental that thirty Members of your party gathered signatures as applicants, so that today's debate could come to this stage? I think the questions have already been answered, but they should have been raised. I'm coming to the main theme. The multipathious health sector against irony was chosen by the New Democracy and with the noble support of the once cooperative PASOK, in order to harm the spirit and honesty of the Left. They were therefore served on an orchestrated witch hunt and the conclusion of SYRIZA politicians, attempting to diversion, dismiss their responsibilities for the great health scandal, with the head of NOVARTIS, which has been excavated and forced into opacity and lawlessness, established for decades by the old New Democracy - PASOK system, either together as partners or as a seated one, but a corrupt system that used health as a means of strengthening the power of political actors and for strengthening individual and economic interests that have been based in this area. The magnitude of corruption is reflected in public pharmaceutical expenditure as a percentage of GDP which more than doubled from 2000 to 2009, rising from 0.9% to 2%. We are now talking about four billion, not about funny figures, without anyone - governments, insurance funds, your Parliament, your parties - to ask ourselves how and why, or to propose effective control measures. This scandalous situation that had been built over the last decades has increased even further during the crisis, when society experienced dramatic living conditions. But their desire to break the spirit and honesty of SYRIZA's political staff has found a privileged scope in the existing "NOVARTIS scandal". Their main concern was to squander and hide the real scandal. However, it is also obvious that the objective of disorientating interest and political agendas at this stage has been to delay the budget, work insecurity and to endure the state by relatives, both side and side. This is how the party's extreme right-wing re-institutional component is met. It is so difficult to see the faithful observance of the Embassy Agreement you need and the relevant relief medicine. At that time, after the inquiries were initiated by the prosecutors of corruption, the climate that was sought to be shaped by the old system, more in a malicious police film scenario, he referred, too, to a responsible objective and documented response to a huge economic scandal. In particular, the unified partnerships New Democracy and PASOK were openly reversed or indirectly torpedoed the heavy and difficult work undertaken by the public prosecutors to distinguish and identify unlawful activities of those who took part in the party of oversized pharmaceutical expenditure and yurousi in the state funds. They have not let justice act freely and unaffectedly. On the contrary, exploiting malfunctions in the method and organisation of the course of the investigations, resulting from unconsciousness or even different regular choices between prosecutors, they triggered through their friendly means of artificial polarization and doubts about the validity and impartiality of the work carried out. Political persons, some of whom have been fully responsible, at least the political, for the creation and the size of the scandal, have found the opportunity to overshadow and undermine the revelation of those responsible by the well-known method of diversion and the work of justice and its officials. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, for equality I have at least two minutes. Nevertheless, the objections and all the supporting arguments appeared in their friendly means have been completely anaemic and irresponsible. In particular, I isolate two - three examples: Mr.Ioannis Angelis in his order of 4 May has recorded the word ‘No relevant evidence is brought that could be brought under the rules of procedural logic to create even the infinite sign of guilt against them in order to justify the movement of appropriate criminal prosecutions’. Still, we're here where we're here. Is it not your Chief of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, who said that 'that does not mean, to God, that there is a NOVARTIS scandal or that it does not mean a priori - to stress this - that everyone by definition is innocent'? But they themselves have placed themselves in the investigation of the scandal. Again, the Prosecutor, Mr. Angelis, in his report of 21 February 2019 to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, refers to the reasonable question whether there are criminal offences in the 'NOVARTIS' investigation, the answer is'surely, there'. And Mrs Raikou in her resignation statement of 24 March 2017, had said that she refused to become Iphigenias on the altar of the interests of corrupt state officials. Who are they? I think the required investigation can reveal it. In fact, she continues to characterise the 'NOVARTIS' case as a crown of corruption in our country. It had, of course, to meet the necessary scenario needs...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u285	Mr. Comrade, you've reached the seven minutes you've asked for the two extra minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u286	For the equality of arms, Mr. Bougas has reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u287	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u288	So there should also be someone secretly moving the strings, head of the gang of prosecutors, a demon of ruler minds who would be able to intervene, persuasive, powerful and influential. As such was chosen the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Papagelopoulos, who thoroughly developed them to you. The former Prime Minister, despite your earlier magnificence, did not dare to incriminate by feeling the danger of ridicule and your subsequent political debacle. Ultimately, the treasure's carbon. The pseudocanda you invented will squeeze over. The thorough investigation into the over-compensation of medicines will be carried out and this effort will have to go to the end, in order to shine the truth, to reveal corruption and to punish the true guilty and the responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u289	Thank you. Mr. Keletsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u290	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not question at all the fact that Mr Papagelopoulos has been an excellent prosecutor, as he also modestly told us about himself a little while ago, but I think that as an apologizer or quasi-minor, a potential defendant is a little weak and will need a better defensive line and possibly a few good legal advisers. I will come back to these issues. But let's start, first of all, with something else. The former Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, wondered what the scandal was. So let's see what the scandal is in this case. Our Constitution in a number of articles ensures and ensures the absolute separation of powers and also ensures the functional and personal independence of judges. This independence and separation of powers, according to our Constitution, are absolute. The Professor of Criminal Procedure, Mr. Argyros Karras, in his letter, says: "The independence of the institutions for the administration of justice is a fundamental feature of the state - law, but its basic practical significance lies in the administration of criminal justice, because here most of the most essential assets of man can be offended, such as life, personal freedom in general, property, property and reputation." It is therefore understandable that the provisions which guarantee it in the Constitution are those of 87 and 92. And it goes on to say: "Government officials are independent both from legislative and executive power and especially from the administration of justice. In fact, the formation of relations between judicial officers and the Ministry of Justice is essentially determined by the extent of judicial independence.’. That's what the professor says. I don't know what he'd say if he was in front of the litigation and was studying it in relation to all of this. I had the honour of being one of the two colleagues who, on the New Democracy side, saw the case-file. So what did we see there? What do the witnesses, for whom Mr. Papagelopoulos has today tried somehow to overcome them, potentially confuse them, so that there is no evidence to show that there is no evidence? So let's see what the witness, Mr. Ioannis Angelis, first of all, said by a skilled, honest, unblemished, inadmissible, as Mr. Ploris said earlier, was in line with Mr. Papagelopoulos's descriptions of Mr. Angelis, today he became inadequate and unsatisfactory. So what does Mr. Angel in his statements? I read: "Behind them" - the prosecutors of corruption - "There was an invisible force, a third person moving the strings of handling the case with obvious consequences." Other information: "In Vienna I understood that the persecution was targeted and predetermined in the face of the three policies mentioned above: Loverdus, Georgiadis, Salma." Below it says: "The real name of Rasputin is known to everyone involved in the NOVARTIS case. My name was said to me by the Attorney of the Ice Bay, and he assured me that he is a member of the government." Below, in the question of how Mrs Toulupaki contacted the so-called Rasputin, she says: "The Prosecutor of the Ice Bay himself told me that she was communicating through a third party, who had the status of the district attorney, in fact by clarifying that he had his own team." Below, when I asked her to explain to me what specific indications there are against the Prime Minister and former President of S.A., Mr. Pikrammenos, he said to me: "We have a video where Mr. Fruzzis says that he made a gift of 100,000 euros to Mr. Pikrammenos." The next day I called her and asked her to bring the video to my office. He said to me, "I'm sorry, I was wrong, there's no such video of Mr. Pikrammenos." Last and top of Mr. Angelis. The prosecutor of corruption tells him: "A few days later, he called me again the Deputy Minister of Justice, whose voice I acknowledge, telling me in an imperative style." I guess what I'm reading here is from the testimony of Helen Ryku, it's not Mr. Angelis. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Wait a minute, don't be glad. Mr. Papagelopoulos tells us this and I do not know whether his defense line was right here: "With Mrs. Riku we had very good friendly relations, we had family relations, I knew her children. Is it possible' - he says - 'I made such calls?' But common sense says you make calls to the people you know. You don't do to the people you don't know. Because you're afraid of being exposed. So what does Mrs. Riku say, and this is what I'm closing? "A few days later I was called by the Deputy Minister of Justice, whose voice I recognise, telling me in an imperative style: "Even not you sent the case-file "NOVARTIS" to Parliament? I replied to him: 'Mr. Minister, I do not persecute anyone without evidence'. He then said to me with anger: “You have nothing to do with it. Send her over and the following others will take care of her." When I didn't say to him, "I'm not this school," he replied: "Stay then see if your school's gonna get good for you." Before I could say anything, the connection was interrupted."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u291	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u292	Mr President, in a minute I'll be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u293	Good. You won't be over eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u294	So these are evidence through the case-file.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u295	Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, Mr Giolas spoke for eight minutes. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u296	It is therefore clear from the case-file that clear indications arise, firstly, a violation of the Constitution, but also of the criminal law in relation to what the Minister has done. He clearly violated criminal law with the moral automobile of misuse of power and violation of duty, but also the Constitution. I conclude, Mr President, with a final sentence as regards the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, who has challenged us and said 'and why you are not persecuting me'. I'm going to tell him what the people say, that's, don't scratch on the spoon, because at one time the slut gets wild and uses it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u298	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, some people have been saying these days that we are discussing the 'NOVARTIS' scandal today. They are wrong or consciously distorting reality. The "NOVARTIS" scandal, the international and Greek "NOVARTIS" scandal, the thousands of doctors' money scandal to promote its preparations, made sure that the SYRIZA and ANEL government cover it in the most effective way with the responsibility of all those who participated in the then government majority. Thousands of people involved can thank them, and of course Novartis itself, who have been fine in recent years. No rebels, ladies and gentlemen, raised a question for those who owed health officials nor, of course, for the thousands of people accused of money. This was the result of a conscious choice to politicize the scandal, to be used without essential elements for indicting political opponents. This approach, ladies and gentlemen, is perhaps even greater scandal than this 'NOVARTIS' scandal. However, the 'NOVARTIS' project aimed at altering democratic institutions and hostage opposition officials collapsed out of sight. The masks are down. This is proved in an almost cinematographic way, as with the responsibility of political and judicial officials, probably journalists, as we see and hear from the case-file, some people have appealed to the institutions with the first and foremost victim of independence and the prestige of justice. The totalitarian plan to set up the NOVARTIS case as a political scandal. Following the archiving of the vast majority of procedural documents, the maintenance of shadows and suspicions is a sign of political immorality, but also of conscious mistrust of society. It recommends a lack of elementary ethos, especially when they still leave implied, even for those whose files entered the file. It recommends a sample of total thinking and perception. And, finally, I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, if the greatest scandal of postmultiple, as the previous government told us, was finally the persecution of Andreas Lovertos, who in honor asked him to lift his parliamentary immunity and during his service was able with the reforms and the areas that brought him to reduce half the pharmaceutical expenditure, which had increased in the period 2004-2009, for which there is, of course, a deafening silence both from the wings of SYRIZA and from the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have lived and live unprecedented moments for the country, democracy and justice. It's time for the truth and the revelation of every aspect of this dark affair. It's time to investigate the responsibilities of all those who were inspired and implemented this instrumental plan. That is what we are discussing today, exploring the construction and the responsibility of those who have done dangerously, played dangerously with the rule of law, with justice and ultimately with democracy itself. I have listened to Mr Tsipras who wondered about the damage to the public sector Mr Papagelopoulos was accused of, in the sense that he did not put the finger on honey. It cannot be understood by the Chief of Officership or pretends that he does not understand that playing with institutions and with justice, building guilty, playing in short with democracy itself is the greatest damage in the country and in the public interest. And perhaps he does not understand it, since it is of the opinion that it is not enough to win the elections, but you must also take the power to control the institutions, to make them your tool and, of course, what the party is doing. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In my view, the seriousness of the matter today required here, in this Chamber, the presence of the Prime Minister in this debate. I think it is a deterioration in the message that this House should have given here today. Ladies and gentlemen, there are accumulated indications for Mr Papagelopoulos. There are serious complaints, not only from politicians or anonymous protected witnesses, but from surnamed judges, who said that pressure and extortion receivers were being made. There are complaints about how the construction was set up but also about other cases. Every day that passes, it turns out the existence and operation of a dark trespass system born through the right-wing inners, but, as we saw in the course, SYRIZA fruited it. Let us only think here of the MPs in the Greek Parliament how the Greeks, the citizens in Peristeri, Aigaleo, will feel when he hears about extortion, pressure, in the field of justice. What would he believe in? Where to support his trust? What should she believe when Mrs Tulupaki, who herself had been accused of playing an active role in these manners, which has been filed with her for lawsuits and an exception, continues to investigate the case she is accused of? How do you explain that on August 9, in the summer, the current government gave it again powers that had been removed? From these complaints, therefore, we must begin the in-depth investigation of this case by looking for everything for everyone. Because, of course, this preparation was not only set up by one. We should explore in the direction of other judiciaries, other politicians and journalists. In the pre-examination, ladies and gentlemen, all stakeholders must be invited. For us, it is clear and clear: there is absolutely no immunity or special protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u299	Please, my fellow Member, conclude that you have exceeded eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u300	I'm done. For whoever there is evidence, no matter how high it is, there should be the same treatment. It is therefore the responsibility of the House in the face of this history - and I am closing with it, Mr President - to see how the existence of an outlawing circuit, which was divided between the obedients and the non-obedients, was evident to exist in order to act. It is time for the House to act, to safeguard democracy, to safeguard justice from all shadows and from every attempt to get drunk. It's a question of democracy. And that is why we are voting in favour of the proposal to set up an interrogative, to shine the truth about everyone and everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u301	Mr Zoe Raptis has the floor. Then there's Mr. Paulakis from SYRIZA. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 86 of the Constitution, we are currently convening, following the transmission of the relevant case-file by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, only the House, according to the Constitution, can prosecute a minister and carry out a preliminary examination of the case. So no cowardice is shown by the absence of the members of the government today, since the government has nothing to do with getting involved in this parliamentary procedure as such. And that is why it is not required to be in the chair, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. You should be accustomed to respecting parliamentary procedures hereafter, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition. Here, we need to speak institutionally, as the Rules of Procedure require, and not, as you used to in the previous House, decentralising the institutions within and outside Parliament. We must therefore make it clear at the outset that the current process does not investigate the economic dimension of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. This is the responsibility of independent justice and is being investigated by the Areo Ice. There is therefore no attempt to squash, as the special speaker of the Communist Party and the President of the Greek Solution claimed. In the present case, we are examining the proposal before you, which includes documentary evidence establishing those evidence of committed offences on the part of the former Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos, which have been committed in the performance of his duties. This data has been extensively reported. But it is the following. What Mr. Angelis swornly testified by the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay for the existence of a specific third person who was moving the strings of handling the "NOVARTIS" case with apparent consequences for the course and quality of the investigation. This prosecutor, his former colleague, Mr Angelis, called him unblemished, capable and honest. And it seems to me that today he disagrees with you and suddenly he has become an unreliable witness. Furthermore, what was submitted by the Prosecutor of Corruption Crimes, Ms. Ryku, in relation to what the Deputy Minister requested, was to send the case-file to the House. And when she made it clear that she wouldn't do it because she doesn't have enough evidence and she's not in this school, he responded threateningly "Start then and you'll see if your school's gonna get you good." It was, however, Mr. Papagelopoulos himself before the Greek Parliament, who praised Ms. Riku as experienced and competent prosecutor and I will present for the minutes the quote of the Minutes of the Parliament. Finally, it is what the Governor of the Bank of Greece and former Minister of Finance has swornly submitted, Mr Stournaras, on the existence of an organised circuit of three corruption prosecutors, who suffocated and threatened protected witnesses, including Mr Maniadakis, who are called upon to testify falsely against the same person, as well as other political persons, Mr Samaras, Mr Venizelos and Mr Georgiadis, in the case of "NOVARTIS", that they were co-financed - by the latter to make illegal arrangements for the benefit of the company. Furthermore, it is also the statement of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Papaggiopoulou, before the case-file is even transmitted to the House, that he received partial information on the elements of the case-file and his experience as prosecutor leads him to the inviolable conclusion that this is the biggest scandal in the Greek state. He even called on the political system to do its duty and to pursue and achieve its self-cleaning for the good of democracy. So what did Mr. Papagelopoulos do? It has essentially achieved the involvement and responsibility of political persons in the ‘NOVARTIS’ case, without any evidence and without even having completed the testimonies. As far as this investigation is concerned, therefore, I would like to make it clear. This is an in-rem investigation, that is, according to things, not in person, as we say in legal science. This is because, as we have said here, there may be signs of committing offences for persons other than the formerly explored minister, which will also be dealt with by the House. And here's our big difference from SYRIZA's previous government. Our actions are not based on anonymous testimony of hidden witnesses, but on surnamed testimony of distinguished prosecutors, who have lost the appreciation of the former minister, as detailed. And it is really a memorial of courage to claim specifically the Civic Opposition that the establishment of a platinum is being attempted reinstated or that we are supposedly aiming to control justice. The opposite happens. Revancism, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, was in the decision of the SYRIZA government to set ten polls against ten political persons without any real evidence, except the deposit of three hooded witnesses. This has been demonstrated by the fact that most cases have already been filed. Today Greek citizens demand to know what is happening in the sensitive area of justice and especially if an attempt to erode the state - law and by whom is being haunted is being haunted. That is why we will take her to the end of institutional, democratic and responsible, with impartiality and without party feasibility. Be sure, Mr. Papagelopoulos. No one prejudges the outcome of the investigation and we obviously respect the presumption of the innocence of everyone, particularly Mr Papagelopoulos. It goes without saying, however, that in this context, all those involved will be asked to testify in the relevant cases, particularly those likely to be natural offenders and hoodless witnesses. The rule of law must function and we will unreservedly defend its function, however much as some with procedural tricks and tricks are trying to prevent it. We therefore call on you all to choose the only right and honest path according to the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament and to vote in favour of our proposal. We all remember a month ago at the IGC, Mr. Tsipras would be calling us, if we dare, to conduct an investigation, a preliminary investigation, and even a special court to investigate this case. Now that we suggest it, are you running away? So much pheasant, Mr. Tsipras, to reverse your characterizations? Ladies and gentlemen, the final judge of all of us is the Greek people who have chosen us to represent him. We will do everything we can to honour his confidence and hope that, in this example, we will follow it without bumps and colleagues in anti-population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u303	Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u304	Thank you very much, Mr President. With the speeches I'm actually listening to, I'm really coming to laugh. Literally. And it's not "the place that they owed us, they take us to the ox," is that you're making a huge effort to disorientate the debate, by charging to Papagelopoulos - you don't dare Tsipras or to me or to others who have revealed a series of scandals - to take the conversation elsewhere. So to make repetitions - because repetition is the mother of learning, as I have said many times - which we cannot forget. You hid them through the media you controlled, but there is one in this Chamber! - doubt that there was a pharmaceutical expenditure scandal in Greece and that a sub-section of this was the NOVARTIS scandal? Is there anyone who can get up seriously and support such a thing? Not even one! Even if you go out and say that it is so, you do not believe it within you, because this is where we have data, data, that is, from 1991 to 2014, 260 million euros were allocated to the health sector, 160 million euros public expenditure - state budget and insurance funds - 100 million euros were private expenditure. With calculations not of mine, but of the National School of Public Health - professors such as Ranos - it is said that 30% of the public expenditure of EUR 160 million and 40% of the private health expenditure is overpriced of medicines, materials, reagents, or EUR 85 billion. When did the party start? In 1997, with that historic Act of Legislative Content on Simitis and Minister for Neighbourhood, which said that charges on the price of medicines are being abolished, i.e. booking for the contribution of the CSAY 4.5%, the CSAF 1.5% and the EOF 10%. What's the result? Cheap the drugs? Oh, no. To advantage the pharmaceutical industries at that time - they are the same as today - with a huge amount of which they then hated doctors and the whole system and blew off the pharmaceutical expenditure. Please answer me, ladies and gentlemen: why, from 1997 onwards, until 2009 throughout Europe, despite the introduction of innovative medicines, in Luxembourg, drug expenditure has fallen by 0.80%, in Sweden it has fallen by 1%, in Germany it has increased 3%, in countries such as Switzerland, France, it has increased 1.5% a year? In Greece why was it growing by 11.1% a year? Are we the Greeks that sick? Did 11.1% happen on its own? Bad doctors? Bad nurses? Bad drugs? Did they raise her? No, with a political decision this was increased, with the first political decision here by Simitis in 1997, which continued over the next few years and the pharmaceutical expenditure from EUR 1.600 000 000 that was then in almost EUR 9 billion in 2008 and 2009. That's the reality. With regard to a subsection of this scandal, in a very nice study by Mr Ranos, who has taken out this drawing, he says - which are not seen from a distance - and I will explain them to you: by 1997 the curve goes smoothly, goes smoothly. As soon as Simitis does this and with what Karamanlis continues, look at how he is ejecting up and down the years of crisis, when the horizontal blade entered. The bottom line is the expected increase, if the bear was not to fall, the polarization of the political system and the smuggling of the health potential. The whole piece under the two curves is the money above. It's 32.68 billion euros the money we paid for. That's it. And you want to tell me that 32 billion were given because her meds of this little company caught up with the same agricultural doctor in Lower Malesina in Upper Gravara and gave him a box of 5 or 10 euros! That is why the expenditure was escalated, and not because a number of ministerial decisions, such as the MDG, were adopted, and the invoicing that was at first in the Ministry of Trade and was the big black hole, for which you were feeding us the fairy tale that we are getting the average of the three countries with the cheapest prices in Europe. Courgettes with the oregano! The companies brought them to you ready: 'These are the prices and get the price off.' That went on and on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u305	You put the two countries in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u306	Three o'clock, Mr. Pleari. You're a lawyer. You're not a doctor. She's humbly and humbly to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u307	Calm down. Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u308	You put the two countries in!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u309	I'll say that now. Patience a little. So you told us that story until 2008, 2009. There was no such thing. Your companies have brought your prices. The findings describe this. Since there was no, well, way to see prices in the other countries, there was no platform, where did you find them the cheapest? Your companies declared it and you took it. That's what happened. And I say 'you' because you ruled those years, PASOK and New Democracy. That's how the expenditure went off. And what happened after 2009? And then you made ministerial decisions. Janakopoulos said so before. It can't be, you guys, stealing and disseminating public money without signatures.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u310	Please complete, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u311	Do you know why you are moving - and Mr. Loverdos and Abrahamopoulos and Georgiadis and Salmas and everyone - now? Move because there were two elections in 2015. And that's the whole point of the case. We turned the case to the judges to look for black money, because infidelity is not just proven, it's sunshine more obvious. When Mr Loverdos, for example, invoices the 200 mg Tasigna instead of a 3,362 euros - then there was a database and you could say that the average was that -4.210 euros, 900 euros made a difference in one year from a medicine -5 million sold this medicine next year -1 million euros damage to the public. That's infidelity. It's a felony. All you have done, Loverdes, Georgiadis, Harvard Project, comes out of the confiscated documents of "NOVARTIS" and says: We set a target March 2013. And here you hear the two prices, the two countries, Mr Ploiris, and he says: these ten medicines must in one year get in Greece and get honor. Why? Because it's twenty-nine and fifty countries. And if we win 10 million euros in Greece, we win 2 billion from the other countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u312	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u313	Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u314	You've spoken for nine minutes. This is at the expense of your other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u315	What are these ten drugs? Exelon, Seebri, Bexsero, Takavi, Votubia, Signifor, Tobi Podhaler, Omnitrope, Optaflu, Fluad. How's Georgiadis? It's changing the rule. Instead of the two-thirds of the countries of the European Union in which it is compensated, it says it in two-thirds of the countries that it is circulating. It's changing the ministerial decision. They enter ten drugs at very high prices, and once all ten are in, it changes the ministerial decision again and returns to the former regime. Isn't that infidelity? It's infidelity. He's just resigned because there were two elections in 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u316	That's enough, Mr. Comrade. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u317	Sun would be more obvious about the infidelity and dispersal of public money.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u318	Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u319	Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u320	What two minutes? You've reached ten minutes. You have spoken more than all colleagues. This work can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u321	We're not going to go crazy here. This is not where 32,260,000 euros were eaten by themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u322	In a minute, you'll be closing your location.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u323	A political staff signed and created the ground to make this robbery of the work of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u324	We're done, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u325	And it has also been the period when one was cut behind the other. "NOVARTIS" was the only company that, while the others fell into ticks and profits of 10%, 15%, 20% a year, it fell 3%, 1.5%, 2.5% in the years of the major crisis, 2012-2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u326	Mr. Polakis, you have no privilege over your other colleagues. Please! We'll turn off the microphone. You've been talking for 11 minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u327	That's not what happened at all. He has political responsibilities. This is what prosecutors and prosecutors are looking for, and as many constructions as you say, Papaggelopoulos has done you will prove nothing. One word and I'm closing with it: Don't say a lot about getting into the file. Don't say too much. Tsohatzopoulos and Papantoniou had entered the archive, but then they were found in jail. And we have a third round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u328	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u329	What do you want, Mr. Comrade? For what? Personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u330	This is a joke about the staff question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u331	Will you give him the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u332	Tell the staff what it is to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u333	He accused me of half the criminal code just now. Do you want me to explain the staff? So listen, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, although this is a demonstration with Paul. Let's actually go. For all that I have heard, you have done a health check that lasted two years so that you can prove something. I don't want to say what you've proved, because we're in the House. It remains, however, that you are the first government majority, Mr Lappa, that your famous conclusion on the examination, which you said in your speech to seek it, you were ashamed to bring it to plenary and never discussed the conclusion of the health examination. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why didn't you bring it? Because there was absolutely nothing in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u334	That's where I was reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u335	You read it, but in plenary you did not bring it to discuss it after the event. You took it out and disappeared in Mr. Voutsi's drawer then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u336	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u337	As far as I am concerned, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Paulakis said, you are listening. As a politician, Mr President, I accept that politicians are being searched and blamed for what they want. It's not about what everyone says. The question is what is being proved. Me, Mr. Polakis, I was searched by the corruption prosecutor for about two years. Do you see any accusations against me from anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u338	You haven't been filed yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u339	Oh, no. So, sir...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u340	You haven't been filed yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u341	Please, Mr. Polakis, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u342	But you said before that the archiving isn't enough. We want a stack from Paul so we can have innocence. If we are not acquitted by the 'justifier' of Paulakis, it cannot be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u343	That's the way it is!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u344	It's not an acquittal of archiving.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u345	So, Mr Polakis, because for the preliminary we are talking about today, it is more likely that you will end up with the prosecutor rather than me, because obviously...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u346	You know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u347	Oh, no. Obviously the false witnesses should be asked, when their immunity is lifted, if you did know them, as you said in Mr Papadakis' report. And if you did know them, then you may also be in the process of altering the civilization and life imprisonment. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u348	I'm shaking a conspiracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u349	So, because you're not a prosecutor, and when you see me, you're shaking a conspiracy, we're going to the preliminary you're not voting on. And you do not vote on it, ladies and gentlemen - and that is the very best - because Mr Papagelopoulos has come and told us that he will prove his innocence. Where's she gonna prove it if it's not preliminary?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u350	Mr. Georgiadis, this is not personal. Mr. Georgiadis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u351	Vote and don't hide, finally, as you've always been doing for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u352	But that was not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u353	Mr President, Mr Athanasios, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u354	Mr. Polakis, there's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u355	He told me I was watching him and shaking a conspiracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u356	He didn't mention anything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u357	He mentioned! He threatened us already!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u358	He didn't mention anything. He's been judging. No, please! There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u359	He threatened us already!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u360	Listen. Read the Rules of Procedure. Personals are two. He did not devour you or alter your statement content.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u361	I want the floor now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u362	Mr President, it has been devoured. For one minute to speak on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u363	Mr President, he told me I saw him and I was shaking. So I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u364	Wait a minute. Well, under the Rules of Procedure, tell me in a minute what the staff are made up of. I can only remind you that the staff provision has two cases: either it has abusive behaviour or altered the content of your speech. Tell us what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u365	I told you, Mr President, that he told me that I was watching him and I was shaking. That's me! Well, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u366	Tell us what the staff is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u367	I told you, Mr. President, don't you? I told you! He told me I saw him and I was shaking! Well, listen, Mr. Georgiadis, the fact that there were two elections in 2015 does not mean that you didn't sign a decision on Lucentis, which instead of invoiced it to 509 euros said by the EOF, you invoiced it 860. Loverde had invoiced 990, the second form he came. [[Noise in the Chamber]] This means waste for the public on a medicine that we spent between EUR 25 and 30 million a year, at least EUR 4 to EUR 5 million was not extra spending and robbery of public money.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u368	Good. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u369	Because you said before, and then I didn't pay attention...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u370	You have said that before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u371	Mrs. Bakoyannis, just a moment. Let me have a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u372	Here you go, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u373	Say a word and we'll get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u374	Previously, when you came, when the conversation started, you made out of the long gestures of the style "My turn is now, things have changed." Here we are, waiting for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u375	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u376	And that kind of far-right guy like you, we're eating you five for breakfast, okay? Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u377	Come on, Mr. Highlands, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u378	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u379	We'll never finish like this. These are indirect threats now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u380	If work goes that way, we won't vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u381	Mr President, I am being touched.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u382	Uh, now we're gonna keep answering each other?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u383	If it goes that way, we won't vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u384	Mr. Georgiadis, what did he bring you to?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u385	It is impressive that after four and a half years in the Ministry of Health and so many investigations against me and after having reported the same story about Lucentis seventeen times, he has not yet learned that Lucentis was invoiced in November 2014 and I had left the Ministry of Health in June 2014. You still don't understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u386	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u387	You're lying again, because you're a liar. It was invoiced in 2013 on your own ministerial decision. You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u388	Enough! Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. We're at the end. I realize you're tired.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u389	He's a liar. He was priced in 2013 by his own Ministerial Decision. He's a liar, and he's even declared. Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u390	Enough! Here, Mr. Highlands, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u391	Greek society is following today's catastrophe that the opposition is trying to bring our democratic processes again, with titles and deceit, with misleading inscriptions, with insults, with slandering that proves exactly what some people have unfortunately sought to smash their political opponents. It is shameful that this is happening, that we continue a debate in private with insults, with threats, with challenges for third-rounds, seeking precisely not to discuss the matter that the National Delegation has now been invited to decide. This is because, with false documents, SYRIZA seeks to mislead Greek society once again. There has been and there is a specific transfer document from the Minister of Justice to the House, where it is mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u392	Wait a minute, Mr. Highlands. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not listen to the speaker. Here you go, Mr. Highlands, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u393	Mr President, there is also the suspension procedure. In the civilised parliaments the meeting is suspended when there is tension and we are discussing it. There's that way if we want to put things in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u394	You'll have a minute more than that, Mr. Highlands.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u395	I would therefore like to say that today the National Representation is called upon to assess a file of case-file, which has come with a document from the Minister of Justice and the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, in order to implement Articles 86(1) and (2) of the Constitution, 153 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and Articles 1 and 4 of the Criminal Responsibility Act of Ministers. In accordance with the applicable provision of Article 86 of the Constitution, as formulated by the Z'Revision House, only the House has the power to prosecute those who have been or have been members of the Government or State Secretarys for criminal offences committed in the performance of their duties, as laid down in the Act. It shall be prohibited to introduce specific ministerial offences. This provision defines the scope of the article and of the implementing law concerned, the exclusive criminal jurisdiction of the House concerning only Ministers and State Secretarys and the criminal offences which have been committed in the performance of their duties, and is submitted by the proposal of at least 30 Members, as in this case, and a decision by an absolute majority to carry out a preliminary examination by means of the setting up of a Special Parliamentary Committee. We therefore have to decide whether or not on the basis of the case-file we have studied, a Special Parliamentary Committee should be set up to carry out a preliminary examination at the expense of the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Dimitrios Papagelopoulos. Apart from the proceedings in the case-file, the statements contained in the case-file, as well as the other facts, I believe that this committee should be set up and that a preliminary examination should be carried out precisely because of the serious evidence that a number of crimes have been committed, on the basis of at least the information we have had so far at the expense of the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Papagelopoulos. In fact, given that this process is being conducted in rem, it is not excluded that it should be extended to other persons and offences, in particular those which the former Deputy Minister appears to have put pressure on public prosecutors, so that with prefabricated, false and totally irresponsible reasons to prosecute his political opponents, thereby converting the US quest for corruption practices of the Swiss pharmaceutical company "NOVARTIS" and in our country into a alleged scandal committed by former Prime Ministers and Ministers with a view to the murder of characters in our country's political life and ultimately in the political survival of SYRIZA through non-existent scandals. These are crimes provided and punished by the Criminal Code, and in particular those mentioned by previous colleagues and we are now being called upon to set up the committee for a preliminary examination. We must move on to strict institutions - contrary to what has unfortunately happened to today - in framework and in procedural terms for justice, in the hope of restoring institutional normality and the prevalence of the state - of law which is so allegedly disturbed by their actions and omissions in the performance of their duties as representatives of executive and judicial authority and, of course, various of them, reaching the bone, ladies and gentlemen. The National Representation is called upon in a supreme function to put aside its party interests and purposes in order to satisfy the criminal claim of the state itself, which, in our case, is to defend the independence of justice and the separation of powers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this was also requested by Prime Minister Samaras, who, for the first time in his presidency, limited the pharmaceutical expenditure in our country for many years by EUR 3.6 billion. From EUR 5.8 billion, it reached EUR 2.1 billion, with a reduction of 63.44% with OECD figures. Of course, with those interventions that we have here, the Prime Minister himself has been devastated through this process of construction and the scandal that the Qualified Opposition itself has sought to implement as a disorientation project - I repeat - our society. So we must move forward and vote 'in favour' of the committee's recommendation to examine the scandal in depth and, of course, in my opinion, the first person to be called here is Mr Paulakis to answer us and tell us where and how he knew that the protected witnesses are officials of the company's own 'NOVARTIS'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u396	Mr. Ragus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u397	Thank you, Mr President. As I am the last speaker, I think it is unnecessary to repeat the arguments which have been put forward at this long sitting. My opinion, ladies and gentlemen, is that the citizens, Greeks and Greeks, have attended this sitting very easily, as far as the political side is concerned, listening to the Chief of Officerial Response, Alexis Tsipras, but also to the criminal aspect of the debate by listening to the former Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos, that you are in trouble and dear colleagues of the New Democracy. You have also been involved politically and criminally, making this decision to proceed with the establishment of this preliminary committee. I will not personally tell you that I have had the opportunity today to remember - seeing some people from the past from fellow Members who sit among you - experiences recently from the Greek Parliament unpleasant, difficult. I would remind you that the latter concerned the Batoped scandal. I would also remind you of what the result was in that process the Members were asked to stand up to the circumstances in order for everyone to take their personal responsibility before the poll to take on such serious human rights issues. And you know very well, then, what the result was and how compatible this eventually proved to be also the outcome of that particular case. Mr Mitsotakis and the ministers, however much they have chosen today the path of cowardice, namely abstention from the debate, will certainly not be able to avoid one thing. They will not be able to avoid the background - if you like - of the future that has actually been founded today, that the economic scandal 'NOVARTIS' is actually becoming a political and institutional scandal. Because you know very well, ladies and gentlemen, a few very simple truths: that if a document from the FBI comes in one or two months' time and this is accompanied by reports from people who have agreed to participate as protected witnesses in an investigation into a global scandal and who would probably be charged to Mr Polakis, Mr Ragosi, to any Member and former Minister of the SYRIZA who have been charged and who are present in the documents of the case, then you know very well that without any hesitation you would go ahead with the establishment of these procedures provided for by the Constitution and the laws, and you would have led exactly the same mathematical accuracy in this case where it was finally brought, that is to the natural judge. You also know very well that everything can be discussed and one can support one's own arguments and take a stand in favour of human innocence. But in reality one thing cannot be called into question and this has been documented here once again. The objective nature of the scandal cannot be called into question. The NOVARTIS scandal is exist and its objective status is undeniable. And when we are dealing with an undeniably existential scandal, then who can take responsibility for not investigating it? Apparently, no one. And because you talk many times about people hanging on the handkerchiefs, you forget that in our modern political history during the post-multi-population process it was former Prime Minister, Andreas Papandreou, who has been hanged in the handkerchiefs for years on the case of the Koskotas scandal. You know he's been acquitted. Did you ever wonder why Andreas Papandreou - and not only why, but also other post-presidents who did not involve themselves, but who lived the consequences of hanging on the handkerchiefs - did not resort to these unprecedented scandalous procedures in which you are resorting to, that is to say, turning the existing scandal into a scandal about supposedly a construction? So the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is one and very simple, that in reality the 'NOVARTIS' scandal is the most inhuman scandal committed to Greek political life, the Greek economy and the Greek society, because it concerns the drugs of sick people and even during the time of the crisis, during the bankruptcy period. There is absolutely no doubt that, yes, the NOVARTIS scandal will be a very clear, very specific and very strong politically charged, but also socially, in this sense, a separating line between the progressive and conservative faction. And that is not in the sense that the innocent are here, and that is where the guilty are, but in the sense that today the progressive Greece is Greece which does not want to leave in the shadow of such cases, of any real responsibilities, which can only be certified in the court, while the attempt to cover up, the effort of the hooding is both a method and a conception of conservativeism and we are living today through the scandal of supposedly building, that is, the scandal in reality that wants to transform Greece into a country where there will be no justice, nor a rule of law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u398	The last speaker, Mr Kotsiras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate we held today in plenary on the proposal put forward by the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination under Rule 86(3) of the Constitution, Articles 153 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on the responsibility of the Ministers. The vote on this proposal and, by extension, the development of a process of essential fair and in-depth scrutiny of what has come to the attention of this House, based on what has been said by name and swornly, on the activities and actions of Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Papagelopoulos, is a self-evident obligation to monitor the serious evidence of concrete and serious offences. Our obligation to do so is even more necessary, since what is being made vowed by current judiciary officials, and what is being referred to in the complaints and statements of supreme state and political actors, concerns the particularly sensitive area of justice, which we all understand, must be protected as an eyewitness and be a security net and an institutional protection for every citizen from the weakest to the most powerful. There is no one to be above the law, and this in-depth investigation we are asking must also serve this objective. In the file on case-file received from Greek justice in the Greek Parliament there were specific actions described by Mr. Papaggioulou during which he was Deputy Minister of Justice, of which, on the basis of the documents submitted, there is an extremely anti-institutional behaviour of himself, which is also illegal and penalised, should be investigated thoroughly by the committee responsible, which the Constitution and the Regulation defines. Any other option would be contrary to both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, but not only that, would also be a sign of covering and ignoring certain deeds. All the existing material which is by the nature of the procedure at an early stage and whatever comes from the committee's investigation, in the context of the tasks laid down in the Constitution and the law, will be assessed in order to investigate the basis for the alleged facts and the possible criminal treatment that our criminal law provides. Respect for the rights of all parties must be ensured, so that Parliament and the public, above all, can be persuaded at the end of the process, that there has been a serious and in-depth investigation which will illuminate dark points and demonstrate that the political system can carry out its constitutional tasks adequately. I am sure that the proposal from the New Democracy, which in substance contains the same points of affidavit, which, if anything, give rise to serious evidence of criminal offences for the former Deputy Minister of Justice, must also be accepted by the Vice-Presidents, without obviously prejudicing the development of the investigation, which is in rem, as we have already said, in law, with regard to the possibility of further examination of any element that arises. Ladies and gentlemen, the area of justice is particularly sensitive, so that there is a luxury to leave without research, among other things, serious complaints from senior judiciaries who handled a case in which there was an attempt at moral and political extermination of specific political persons, including two former prime ministers, with evidence that there was no evidence in the course of the process. Can we forget the reports to the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, about running suitcases in the Maximos Palace, or the serious complaint that Mr. Pikramenos was involved on the basis of an inexistent video? Can we forget the statements by Mr Papagelopoulos himself about the inviolability of the greatest scandal of the Greek state? We can close our eyes to a sworn statement that we have in the case-file in which, among other things, the following - and now known after the debate today and from the case-file - dialogue: 'Minister, I without any evidence am not persecuting anyone'. "You've got nothing but yours. Put it down and for the following reasons will others take care of it'? No, we can't close our eyes to these complaints. I think that this should be the desire of all of us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall conclude. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is a responsible political force and behaves in a completely institutional manner. Contrary to the previous practice, we do not have any criminal guilt and we do not work on criminal proceedings and justice in general. We must, however, understand that this case relates to the independence and prestige of justice officers. It is not only about the possible extra-institutional action of a minister - who is checked whether or not he has committed criminal offences - but about something much more important about democracy and the rule of law. Because, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the recommendation and the outcome of the committee's work, the institutional behaviour of all reflects the need to defend a basic value of Western legal culture, the strict distinction of powers and as a result of the true independence of justice. In this way, there will be real legal certainty and real clearance. And today's speech by Mr Papagelopoulos fully strengthens this direction. On the basis of these axes we are moving and consider that the setting up of the proposed pre-review committee on the basis of the serious indications available to us, will contribute to full conciliation and to the protection of the institution of justice itself. To conclude, we say that our purpose is not any political persecution, but what each of our fellow citizens asks, namely to reveal the truth with genuine evidence and not with hoodwife witnesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u400	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal submitted by thirty Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group on the establishment of a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination, in accordance with Articles 86(3) of the Constitution, 153 next to the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on the « Criminal Responsibility of Ministers, as applicable to the investigation of the following offences, which may have been carried out by the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, in the performance of his duties: With regard to the first offence: Ethical automobile in the abuse of power by physical automobile and direct synergy between judicial officers (Article 46(1) in conjunction with Article 239 of the Criminal Code). Secondly, a challenge and an offer for the execution of the crime (Article 186(1) and (2) of the Criminal Code). Third, a duty violation of morality and a duty infringement (Article 46(1) in conjunction with Article 259 of the Criminal Code and Article 259 of the Criminal Code as an autonomous infringement). Fourthly, a moral automobile in false statements (Article 224(1)), in accordance with the proposal. In accordance with Article 86(3) of the Constitution, paragraphs 8 and 9 of Rule 153 and Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, Parliament shall decide by secret ballot on the establishment or non-Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination. The decision shall be taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, otherwise the proposal shall be rejected. For the purpose of holding your secret ballot, a vote has been distributed to you under the name of the former Minister of Justice Mr. Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, a white ballot and a white file in which the ballot will be placed. On the side of the name, the words ‘THE’, ‘THE’ and ‘ORD’ shall be inserted. The vote shall be expressed by a cross under one of the above words. In the absence of a cross vote in any of these three words, i.e. 'NAH', 'OH' and 'APHON', the ballot shall be deemed void. In accordance with paragraph 10 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, in the event of disagreement between the number of votes cast and the number of votes cast, the measurement shall be repeated. If and after this count it is found that the number of votes cast is greater than the number of votes cast, it shall be destroyed before the sorting of so many ballots equal to the number of additional ballots. The proposal, as well as the vote, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u401	The House therefore agreed. [[The proposal and sample of the vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] To enter pages 322-331
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u402	In making the name of each Member, he will come to the vote, where he will put the file with his vote in the ballot, and the Members on the ballot will confirm, stating the name of each of the Members who is voting. Speaking on the list of MPs and voters will take place at the end of the declaring of the names of the other Members for reasons of proper functioning of the procedure. I would also like to inform you that the Bureau has sent letters of sealed Members and members of the Government and State Secretarys, who are on a mission of Parliament or the Government abroad to participate in the secret ballot, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Their ballots are in the sealed envelopes. Each dossier shall be enclosed in a larger second file, also closed, which shall also state the name of the Member or the member of the Government who votes by written vote. The file is accompanied by a transmission document and is addressed to the President of Parliament and a copy of it will be lodged in the minutes of today's sitting. Parliamentary Thesprotia Mr. Vassilios Yoyakas from New Democracy and MP Evrou Mr. Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA are on the list. They are also called as voters: MEP Lefkadas Athanasios Kavadas from New Democracy and MP Fthiotidas Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis from SYRIZA. The Committee will be chaired by Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis, Quaestor of Parliament, in accordance with paragraph 6 of Rule 73 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would ask the voters to come to the poll. I repeat that the Members on the vote will confirm by mentioning the name of each of the Members who vote. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u403	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The sealed letters sent to the Bureau for participation in the secret ballot for the establishment or non-Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination in accordance with Rule 86(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 3 of the Constitution, Articles 153 et seq. of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on the Judicial Responsibility of the Ministers, as applicable, concerning the investigation of the following offences which may have been committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Dimitrios Papagopoulos in the performance of his duties: 1) a moral autocracy in the misuse of power by physical automobile and direct synergy of judicial officers (Article 46(1), in conjunction with Article 239 PK), (2) a challenge and an offer for the execution of a crime (Article 186 para. 1 and 2 PM), 3) moral automobile in breach of duty and breach of duty (Art. 46(1) and (2) PM), 3) moral automobile in breach of duty and breach of duty (Art. 46(1) and (2) PM), 3) moral automobile in breach of duty and breach of duty (Art. 46(1) and (2) PM), 3) moral automobile in breach of duty (Art. 1 in conjunction with Article 259 PK and Article 259 PK on its own, and 4) moral automobile in false deposit (Art. 224 para. 1 WP), as indicated in the proposal, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u404	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to take the counting and sorting of the ballots and exporting the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u405	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the secret vote in this House: A total of 261 Members voted. There were 261 ballots in the polls. I won 256 ballots. Annulled four ballots. White 1 voter. They voted in favour of the proposal: 172. They voted against the proposal: 84. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, I am right to repeat: They voted in favour of the proposal: 173. They voted against the proposal: 83. Following the outcome of the secret ballot, a proposal by the thirty Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group for a preliminary examination against the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Dimitrios Papagopoulos, on the investigation of the following offences, if any, by the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Dimitrios Papagopoulos, in the performance of his duties: 1) A moral automation in the misuse of power by physical automation and direct synergy of judicial officers (Article 46(1), in conjunction with Article 239 Criminal Code), 2) and an offer for the performance of a crime (Article 186(1) and 2 Poultry Code), 3) a moral automation in breach of duty and a breach of duty (Article 46(1), in conjunction with Article 259 Criminal Code), a challenge and an offer for the performance of a crime (Article 229(1) and (2) Policial Code) in accordance with Article 224(3) of the Code of Conduct (Special Code) shall be accepted. I propose that the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination be made up of twenty-six members and that the deadline for the completion of the work of the committee and for the presentation of its findings and evidence should be within two months of the committee being set up. Do you agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u406	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u407	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S2-commons.u408	The sitting of the next Thursday, 10 October 2019 at 9.30 p.m. on the subject of the House: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
