ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to this House the following: The Constitutional Review Committee shall submit its report in accordance with Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice ‘Amendments to Criminal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure and related provisions’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: "Towards the Greek Parliament Special Secretariat of the President of Parliament With this in mind, we are telling you, on Monday 11 November, that the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr.Ioannis Placiotakis, addressed by No 182/5-11-2019, is impossible because of a blockade, i.e. he participates in meetings with representatives of international institutions internally." We all understand today why this postponement and the absence of the Minister for Island Policy is absolutely justified. I continue reading the document: ‘The topical questions that will be discussed are as follows: Question No 164/1-11-2019 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. Question No 178/11-2019, by No 179/11-2019, by No 179/2019 and by No 916/25-9-2019, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Question No 176-11-2019 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Please, as you take the appropriate steps to inform both the President-in-Office and the honourable Members. O Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Stylianos - Ioannis G. Koutnajis". In the order of questions to be discussed, we will have a change because of the current obstacle to the ban on traffic. The first question to which Mr Digalakis will answer and then the question to which the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Zavvos will reply will be answered. The three questions which Mrs Zacharakis will answer will then be discussed. The second question under number 176/5-11-2019 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs will be debated first, on the subject: "The delay in the announcement of the results of the introduction and entry into the higher education of the candidates with serious illness". In this timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Dygalakis. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, on 30 October, the names of the candidate students, children with serious illness, were announced for their introduction to higher education, and of course there is talk of the current academic year 2019-2020. The result of this delay is not only not only the discomfort of the whole process, but also the suffering and unjustified expectation for both children and their families, with whatever consequences this may have for their health as well. So while the Ministry of Education had to prioritise the examination and early announcement of the names, precisely because they concern a specific, vulnerable group, not only there has been a delay in the whole process, but at the moment the thousands of five hundred five, from what we know, are in danger of losing the first half of their studies, without their own fault. We believe that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education this serious problem at the beginning of the academic year for these students, and of course the Ministry must immediately take all the necessary measures, in order to ensure that the right to examinations of the first half of the year in the laboratory is not lost, since, as far as we know, the laboratory courses in some parts are the overwhelming majority. In view of the above, Mr President, we are asking the Minister: firstly, what steps will the Ministry take, so that the students concerned will not be lost in six months, of course in cooperation with the relevant departments which must take serious account of the fact of the delay and the necessary arrangements? Secondly, what aid measures will the government take to support the needs of students and, on the one hand, those students who have serious health problems? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. The Minister of State has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lambroulis, thank you, and on behalf of the Minister for the question. Obviously, we share - as you do - with the Ministry to ensure better care for the charges of importers suffering from serious illnesses. This year, in this process, the introduction to higher education of candidates with serious illness took part a thousand six hundred seventy eight candidates from whom the thousand five hundred forty-five were introduced. Today they complete their registrations at university departments and schools in higher church academies, at ASPATE and at higher schools of tourist education. The relevant process of completing electronic equipment by these candidates began on Tuesday 17 September. We have decided to extend the deadline for submission by 4 October so that candidates can also participate in new pathological codes. In particular, sixteen new diseases were included in the table. As you rightly said, the results were announced on 30 October. As far as the risk you said, Mr Lambroulis, is concerned, this is not going to happen. We are - without overlooking the delay which you rightly mention, and which, unfortunately, is timeless - in constant communication and cooperation with the administrations of the universities in order to ensure that it is not lost in six months. Now, what measures will we take, I will tell you then. You know that we took over the Ministry's political leadership on 9 July, just two months before the start of the academic year, and the opportunities for intervention were very limited. I would like to say, however, in this category, that there is no need to introduce the candidates with serious illnesses following that of the other candidates. For this reason, I would like to inform you that we are already investigating the possibility of examining the supporting documents before the pan-Hellenic examinations, that the computer technology of people with severe illness will be completed together with the computerisation of the remaining candidates, and in this way, the results of time - which will actually be able to intervene - come out much sooner. Now, on the second issue, the support for people with severe illnesses, there is of course support and care for people with disabilities. Unfortunately, in tertiary education it is much smaller than in the first levels of education and there is indeed a problem. There, I would like to refer to the initiative of the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetritis, where a committee has been set up to draw up an action plan, which is horizontally in the entire public sector and, of course, the universities. There are representatives of the Ministry of Education in this committee, therefore, because we need not only services, but also infrastructures suitable for them to be able to fulfil their academic obligations without problems. Because I've been over time, there's also a more general issue with the recordings and the transcripts...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u5	You will continue in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u6	I'll report them to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u7	The Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Lambroulis, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, if, as you say, the departments at universities will also be included on the basis of the Ministry's suggestions, as far as this category of students is concerned, they will not lose the possibility of examining the first semester, at the same time as starting now, because, as you have said, the latter - possibly - are still being registered in practice as well. What we have asked for in the first question you have answered is whether or not it will be lost in the semester. Obviously from your so-called conclusion, it is in no way the children concerned will be faced with such a problem. As far as the second is concerned, let me say a few words. We believe that as a whole, not only on the issue of delaying the results, and so on, the Ministry of Education is necessary to ensure and take all the necessary steps to tackle and deal with the problems, such as all students, respectively, and in particular, if you like, this vulnerable group of students suffering from serious illnesses. Of course, it is not a charge, we do not separate them, students with movement issues - problems, but there are other more serious conditions that concern a large number of our fellow citizens, their families or children who are going to attend. So we think that for this vulnerable group of students the universities, higher education institutions, should create all those conditions and means, through their services, the structures and the infrastructure that they must have, for example, - as regards the issues of medical care, social intervention and others that are not here - so that these students can inevitably meet the needs of their studies. In the face of these issues, issues, problems, the sovereignty of the logic of self-sufficiency, of the self-employed, that is to say, of a competitive university which is built up, is the following: if it is a matter of concern that a university - or a university in general - will be prioritised to make available resources to ensure all those necessary and necessary infrastructures for students, for young people with serious illnesses, since the management model of the universities which manage their finances should first and foremost be accountable to the market, which is a little more concerned with such issues and their solution, as it also highlights and promotes the individual path to resolve any problems that students face and not only today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u10	Mr Colleagues, let me say that we agree that people with serious illnesses, people with disabilities must have the same chances as all the other students, and that is why we are moving forward with the actions I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u11	That's rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u12	Now, with regard to the rest, we obviously do not agree on what you have said. I will tell you that in modern methods of university evaluation and the criteria they are looking at are what care is taken for people with serious illnesses, for people with disabilities and being evaluated and asked to take measures on this issue. However, I would like to return more generally to the issue of the delay in student registration, either from the registration or from the transfer, and a special case is the case we are discussing today. I would like to remind you here that following the announcement of the pan-Hellenic examinations, which is usually done in the last week of August, there is a series of procedures. The repetitive pan-Hellenic exams and the pan-Hellenic exams of the Greeks abroad are carried out. The results shall be communicated at the beginning of October. Applicants shall be selected under the provisions of the natural disasters affected. In September, too, other special charges, such as athletes, are being called upon to provide supporting documents to the Ministry. And as a result of all this sequence of provisions and procedures, candidates belonging to these special categories should come for retardation late. The same is true of the transcripts. The process of relocation begins after student registration at universities, with the result that students who are relocated to the departments in which they are going very late. The problem is clear. The problem is that it has been a long time since the pan-Hellenic exams until the bases are announced. So this is the milestone, so that all the other stages take place earlier. It will be in the interest of young students and their families if we can get them out of this uncertainty and the final stage that the relocations are to be announced much earlier, at the beginning of the academic six-month period. This is why, together with the revision of the framework of the relocations, which we have announced in previous statements here in the questions, but also in the public speech, we are starting with the Ministry's services in order to speed up the adoption of the results of the pan-Hellenic examinations and thus shorten the period between the pan-Hellenic exams and the academic semesters and the special categories as well as the students from relocations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We proceed to the fourth with number 164/1-11-2019, a topical question for the second question by the Member of the Elias Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The single rules for the treatment of borrowers". In this timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. Here, Mr Katrin, you have the floor for two minutes in order to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that everyone here in this Chamber agrees that on the issue of the management of red loans, but also the treatment of borrowers, Minister, there should be uniform rules applied by all financial institutions. You are well aware that seventeen institutions in liquidation with assets estimated at EUR 9 billion, most of which correspond to non-performing loans to enterprises and citizens, are currently fully in place different rules for dealing with their borrowers. We are talking about cooperative banks in too many regions of the country, we are talking about the Post Bank, about the Agricultural Bank, about banks which have suspended their operations and where the proportion of non-performing loans is significantly higher than that of the average and more than 55%. Therefore, this situation creates problems both for borrowers and in relation to the viability of enterprises, because these banks that are being wound up require borrowers to serve and repay their loans within eight years, and this eight-year period is completed in 2021, which means that any solution and response must be immediate and of course do not take into account the general economic situation and the dystocia in the financing of businesses. At the same time, the systemic banks have much more flexibility, allowing the repayment of the loan obligations in many cases within and including twenty years, taking into account the special circumstances of each borrower. Two-speed borrowers are therefore being created, and the borrowers of cooperatives and banks in liquidation are being punished, without really having any responsibility for the fact that these banks have been wound up. So because we all agree that there must be uniform rules on the treatment of borrowers, I ask what you intend to do in order to remove this unprecedented injustice and, of course, to apply uniform rules on the treatment of borrowers who are in liquidation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u15	Here, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President, like the honourable Member of Parliament, Mr Katrin, for giving us the opportunity to clarify certain issues that are crucial to Greek borrowers. First of all, as you have rightly pointed out, there is already a special liquidation framework in Greece, in which the seventeen in liquidation banks, which you mentioned, have been included. This specific framework, namely the special liquidation, is under the supervision of the Bank of Greece. There, however, I would like to pay due attention to the fact that there is a regulatory framework of uniform rules. What do I mean? There are at least two operations of the Bank of Greece which concern, on the one hand, the analogous application of the Code of Conduct, which applies to normal banks, and the banks that are in liquidation, as well as to credit cooperatives. At the same time, there is another operation of the Bank of Greece, which sets out the terms and conditions for the management of the assets of the credit institutions in liquidation. It should be made clear here that this framework provides the necessary flexibility to enable borrowers of the credit institutions in liquidation to have the possibility - and this should be stressed - of settings the length of which may vary. If they are entrepreneurial or consumer loans may be for a decade, housing loans may reach 20 years. So you realise that this framework provides the possibility of flexibility for sustainable regulations, such as the grace period, unequal instalments, a long-term end-of-life, renegotiation after two years and, above all, the possibility of a compromise payment, i.e. a debt haircut. But we must bear in mind that each case is specific. In other words, there is a need for an individual assessment based on the debt, based on the property situation, based on the use of the debtor's cooperation and, above all, on the ability to repay it. You realise - and it should be made clear - that the rules are uniform, whether they relate to active banks or to banks that are in liquidation, whether they are systemic or other cooperative banks. In other words, there is no framework that creates two-speed banks, two-speed debtors. There is a single framework, with the exception that each credit institution has the possibility to use different methods in relation to the specific case of each debtor. It is therefore a single framework, but there are always possibilities. And fortunately, there are these possibilities in order to take care of exactly every particular case and to provide the best possible solutions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u17	Mr Katrin, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you seem particularly reassuring, saying that there is a single framework of rules on the treatment of borrowers. I do not think, however, that the whole country chambers, representing professionals and entrepreneurs who have borrowed from these banks on a daily basis are in agreement with the raw reality, difficulty and lack of flexibility in the timeframe, but also with the repayment rules, especially at this juncture which you also agree remains extremely difficult and critical. You know very well that too many small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the Greek region, cooperated with cooperative banks to finance them. You also agree that cooperative banks, regardless of whether some have been brought into liquidation, have a comparative advantage, because they are well aware of the specificities of the local economy and of the small and medium-sized enterprises that they are invited to finance. Of course, the role of the clearer must not be merely collectible. It must take into account the viability of enterprises, the available income and the specificities of each borrower or undertaking. And, of course, today, the reality says that the clearer does not provide full information about the course of the liquidation, about what and how much loans have been set, for obvious reasons, so that the problem does not arise. We believe that there should be a reduction in interest rates, an increase in repayment time and, in practice, the application of uniform rules. You know very well - for example - that there are loans not served since 2012, 'current' at a very high rate of 12% to 14%, while the repayment period does not exceed 10 years. It is in the special context that you are saying that it can deal with each case. And, of course, I am not sure that the bank in liquidation implements or implements all the measures provided for in the Code of Conduct of Law 4224/2013. For these loans of the under liquidation of the Agricultural Bank, which remained unserved, and the news then went through the successor scheme of Piraeus, no way was provided either by amending the Banking Code to Law 4446/2016, nor by the law on the extrajudicial compromise. Of course, Minister, you know that we in the Change Movement, precisely because we are on a daily basis receiving complaints and requests from entrepreneurs and borrowers, and today we have tabled an amendment - and I say this because we are waiting for legislation on the transfer of unhelpful loans to a'special purpose vehicle' - and on the protection of the first residence which, from 1-1 to 2020, is now permanently stopping, with a vote by the previous government, but also on the thorny question of the possibility of giving objectively weak borrowers the possibility of buying from the credit institution of the loan before it is transferred to the fund, which you know very well that it operates on purely speculative criteria. Law 4605/2019 - the previous government's law - and the electronic platform have failed miserably and any improvements that are being voted on this week will not change the overall picture, which means that too many of our fellow citizens will be faced with the risk of mass auctions. I think that, on the basis of the legislative framework of the 'HRAKLE' that we are waiting for in the month, you should also see the issue with the cooperative banks, but also with the others who are in liquidation, but also the issue of the first residence and the possibility of buying the loan back from the objectively weak borrowers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I think it is clear that the framework is uniform and, secondly, that what the honourable Member says does not apply to his question. It is not true, of course, that the clearers are obliged to repay debts in only eight years. There's no way so far, we haven't seen her. On the contrary, we have cases involving agricultural, livestock cooperatives, such as that of Arta, on the basis of which loans were arranged even by public cuts, with a ten-year plan signed just two three months ago. If there is anything else in his mind, the honourable Member will always be able to ask us to give the information he needs. Mr President, this question gives me the opportunity to highlight the work that the Greek Government has done so far in relation to the Greek borrower, but also the Greek citizen. The HERAKLIS project, to which you have referred, is an innovative solution, aimed at a systemic regulation which will reduce a large volume of red loans. We estimate that it will be around 30 billion, i.e. 40% of the existing volume. This is precisely what will enable all those banks that have red loans, exempting their balance sheets from this burden, to turn precisely to financing, to the bloodshed of the real economy, that is, households and small and medium-sized enterprises. The government shows precisely its sensitivity to this huge sector, not to use even one euro of the Greek taxpayer. This is a solution supported by the markets, and it was only possible because of the significant government change and the confidence of the markets, of which, as you know, Greece has been able to raise money at very low cost. This is precisely what helps the entire possibility, if you want, of reviving the Greek banking system, which is and will become that neural axis of growth, which the Greek economy needs, so that jobs can be found again, that liquidity can be given to the Greek economy, to the Greek citizen, whom it has broken down, that crisis is now on its knees. I would like to say that the framework of this project is supported not only by all European organisations, but also by many other projects now offered by Greece, which come back to Europe's investment map after a decade and which is a real example of the Eurozone in this area. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Before we move on to the next time-consuming questions, I would like to read out a request from a colleague. MEP Georgios Katrugalos seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 15-11-2019 to 17-11-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u22	The House therefore approved the requested authorisation. We continue with the second with number 178/5-11-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Following sections of the General School of Education (GEL) in Regional Unit Kilkis". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Here, Mr Delis, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. The problem, of course, is faced by students throughout the country, but our question focuses on the area of Kilkis, where in three high school, in the high school of Mourias - the Mourias are a beautiful village next to Lake Doirani - in the high school of New Agioneri and in the general high school of Europe, there are no guidance sections, because they were found to be a few. Of course this has upset the students and their families there. This situation continues even two months after the start of the course. Let us say here that all this time they have been gratified by promises and words from various factors there, that the issue will be resolved, but so far nothing has been done at all. Let's just say, not here, that so far nothing has happened. If that is the final answer of the Ministry, then the students of these guidance sections, which will not work, will be forced to go thirty or even thirty-five kilometres away. The Murries from Kilkis are thirty-five miles [30 km] away. You don't call it that little distance! To remind you here that we had tabled a written question to the Ministry of Education on the same subject, which was answered. On October 15, the Ministry confirmed with its answer the existence of the problem - alas! - and noted - and I read out self-determination - the following: 'due to the lack of the necessary and necessary number of teachers for their uninterrupted operation, but also because it is not difficult for pupils to move to another high school'. That's what the Ministry said. It is not difficult for the Ministry to move these students. He's a wishy one. It's probably a pleasant thing to do with the Ministry of Education. What's the problem of traveling 30 and 35 miles every day, students on unparalleled provincial streets? It's a trivial fact! We add here that in the same reply you confirm that two other areas of specialisation now - in Kilkis's 1st PCA - were not adopted, not only because there were no teachers, but because there were no rooms in this case. In other words, we understand the dimension of this problem. Of course, many of these students are forced, being in the Third High School, to change their preferences, to change their specialties, to change their directions and directions. What we want to ask the Minister is for the Ministry to rethink and approve these few sections in the Kilkis region, as well as all the rest in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u24	Madam Minister, you have three minutes for your prototype to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u25	Mr Delis, thank you for the opportunity to talk about a matter here in this House, which we both have referred to in detail and which has to do with the shortcomings in schools. Many Mondays we are here, and I thank you for the opportunity to reply today. In your reply to the Kilkis region, but also to other regions, we made it clear that there were difficulties that we received anyway. And please don't think that's a common answer. It is true, as we had to operate under Law 4610/2019, because in any case, the conditions of operation of the guidance groups for the general high school and the compulsory seven hours created many needs throughout Greece, as well as much more oligoberals. But be careful of something. Because you raised the issue in particular of the region, I would like to give you some figures that I think are indicative and that of the Ministry's intention to operate the few sections. And please don't question for a second that we think socially too. We would not want children to be afflicted on roads that are really difficult. Winter conditions would probably create a lack of access. The children of the ESDP were forced and moved, anyway, towards the nearest school. In this sense we have proposed and given a solution to the children of general high school. However, I am a little back on the issue of numbers. So there were thirty-seven requests for a few sections and they were adopted - I am not mourning you in detail - the thirty-one. So let's go to these parts. We are talking about the ELDR European, namely the two students in the Positive Sciences Guidance Group and a student in the Health Orientation Group. The distance from the nearest school is 11.7 km. In the second GLEN, in the Murries that you mentioned in particular, we have a student of positive sciences who could go to Hersso, which is about 11 to 12 km - you correct me, if I make a mistake, because you are from the region, but I do not think I do - and there are four students in the Economic and Informatics Guidance Group, which we are talking about at the moment. In Ayoneri there are three students in the Economic and Informatics Guidance Group. Indeed, the nearest GEL is 36 miles [36 km]. And what you said before, that the Murries from Kilkis are 34.5 kilometers, that's true. The intention of the Ministry - and I would like to make this clear here - is to exhaust the possibilities it has, of course, given the available appropriations. I must therefore inform you of something that you already know, because you are following the parliamentary work very well, that we have already done three phases of deputy recruitment, with more recent ones in the past week, when we have covered six thousand six hundred and twenty-nine credits. With this and waiting for the final statements - they will be made by tomorrow - we believe that we can probably meet with the staff that has gone, the needs, even for these parts. You may have said at the moment about heavy statements from local players. I don't know who you're talking about. However, you should know that I speak with the Member of our region every day, Mr Georgada, who has also been to popular assemblies and has participated in a dialogue very active with the region. We did try to find solutions that are viable, because for a department that does not have a teacher, we will then all be accountable to these children. We will therefore be positive about a possible operation of the departments, if it turns out from the available appropriations that they could work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Delis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u27	A lot of 'if' and 'if' were you, Minister, and that concerns us very much. You have once again called upon the situation you have received. We've been through this before. You're not original at all. Every government does that, especially in the first time. It's all the previous ones' fault! We have said too much about it. You referred to the number of students, and here I want to stay a little bit. In our view, Mrs Zacharakis, the problem is not a quantitative one. Even a child in our country cannot or may not be prevented from studying what he really wants, for us that is a problem and the responsibility is in its entirety. So you cannot say, "There's a child there", "two kids there", "four kids there", "let's go 15 km around", "let's go 15 km away", which is not fifteen km away, is much more and you also recognized it. Of course you have said this classic and the most alarming of all, given the 'data on budgetary conditions'. We know these budgetary circumstances, as you know them. These conditions will never have room for satisfying the needs of our people in education, health and social needs. You guys don't even get any originals here either. All governments say that all these years I remember. In any case, at some point, you should stop comparing among you the rulers and compare them with the needs of modern and today. And if you ever do that, Minister, then you and your government will be inferior to the circumstances and needs of the children of the Greek people today. I'm a little back on the subject of distance. The Ministry cannot say here that it is not difficult for students to move to another general school. Is that so? Isn't it hard to move? Who then assumes this responsibility for moving? Who? The student, his family or the state, the ministry, the government, anyway, which I should remind you here - in accordance with the constitutional order of providing public and free education to all children? Does it or does the state not have that responsibility? Of course, the most tragic, in my opinion, is what is written here and writes this in a reply from the Ministry of Education. Mr President, I read it: 'It is noted that due to the lack of the necessary and necessary number of teachers for the smooth operation of these departments...'. You know, it can't be invoked by the Ministry for the lack of teachers. There are teachers, Mrs. Zacharakis. It's thousands. They're inseparable. Approximately thirty-five thousand teachers each year are recruited as alternates. This year you will need to do more recruitment, because after the third phase there will definitely be gaps. We said that thirty-five thousand must be those recruitments. In our opinion, therefore, the Ministry cannot - it is a monument - say that there are no teachers. There are, but you're holding them, like the previous ones, in a hostage. You give them appointments, ten, fifteen, twenty thousand. Any number everyone wants to put in. So far, however, no appointment has been made. In any case, in order to close it, these students do well and move and claim. They have the support of the whole local society there, by institutions, by unions, by municipalities. That makes sense. We're talking about kids living in these villages, the remote ones. In any case, if it is not the tears of the ruling crocodiles for the people of the province, prove it by works. We call on you to reoperate all these guidance sections, which are so-called 'individuals'. What can we do? In the province, Ms. Zacharakis, a few members will be the departments. There's not a lot of people left.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u28	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Delia, I'm from a country too. The province I come from - like Mr Bourras - has indeed many children who are moving in different ways. And the state has taken over this move. So in many regions in Greece they live this difficulty and suffering of younger and older children every day. But put on another parameter, if you want. The socialization of the child in a small section, a one-sided one. Also, the noble speech and the competition in the classroom. But we see that. And I would like to say to you that I think that, in order to strengthen, whether it is continental or insularity, regional policy, we should make our efforts even more and to strengthen sections. But not give children a chance to operate departments, if at that time the state can't handle having the teacher. It seemed like you didn't hear my first placement at all. But it's okay. I'm here to fill it out. When the question was answered, we talked about the need to update, record and fill gaps. So I give you the details of the deficits from central Macedonia, as they have been given and how many we have sent. In secondary school, there were two hundred ninety teachers. The exact number was sent. Because you know very well what has happened this year with the placements withdrawals, I expect to see the exact number of these teachers we have sent, if anyone doesn't accept, so that I can proceed immediately to an additional stage of sending deputys.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u30	So tomorrow we'll know?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u31	Tomorrow we'll know, yes. Tomorrow they'll have people in their seats anyway. We've set a time frame. You spoke of a possible rigour of the Ministry in the oligobers. I want to give you the numbers and, if you like, do a comparative study with other years. We approved seven hundred sections in central Macedonia, four hundred fifty three general high school and two hundred fifty-five ESDP. I know you're conducting a thorough check. Do, if you want, and a comparison with other years for how much has been adopted. Conclusion - so I don't get too tired. The move you know very well that it is assigned to the regions. So the state has this obligation to move and exercise it. And where he does not exercise it, I think that pressures are always coordinated, so that he can effectively exercise it. As I told you before, we will always operate in the interests of children, but certainly with the self-evident obligation to always have the predictions, I mean the human potential, to cover the needs. I repeat, no matter how much you want to degrade it, that it is a situation that we have actually received. It is a situation that we did not legislate. They weren't our ministerial decisions. But we're trying with data everything we have before us to bring the best level to public education. Thirty-seven thousand replacement recruitments, Mr. Delia. And that's what I think is a record number. That's what everyone wants anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u32	We are continuing with the third number. 179/5-11-2019 topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The serious shortcomings and the situation in the special schools complex in Aigaleo". Mrs. Kanelle, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I'm unfortunate. I come after the question of the fellow Member talking about the movement of children, miles, distances in the province, and I come to talk to you about the situation in this complex. If you want to go as a parent, as a man, as a woman, as a politician, as a simple citizen who passes as anything - put everything together - in that band that's all schools together. They're two hundred autistic children. Fifty is in kindergarten. She's in secondary school together. He's in primary school together. They are twenty - five children with motor problems and twenty - five children with different kinds of problems. These kids are all together in a building that's industrial-type. You don't put any broken leg workers in there. There are large rooms in which three different courses are held at the same time, at the same time, in children with disabilities. One section can do craftsmanship, the other can do something else and the third one can do literature. 80% of the training staff there are substitutes. In autistic children and children with disabilities, the constantity, the continuity, the "monitoring" of the progress of these children and their evolution is a very important thing. Even in the OSCE, who asked for assistance from sixteen scientific assistants, they went eight, because it has generally been chosen that it is more economic to take substitutes. Do you want me to agree? No way. I'm telling you, though, that it was like this that I was taken into special treatment with these kids? Secondly, because I cannot finish off easily, it has been ten years ago - five, one government and five, the previous one, if you want to put, approved and set up an equivalent complex in Athens and Peristeri. The pigeon is closer to Aegaleo. Right? Under the responsibility of the municipal authorities, with the responsibility of the central authorities, the government has left it on paper. They can't find buildings. Can you believe it? So all the kids that have these kinds of problems, from this point of view, will go to this school. I went tour there and saw them with my eyes, so I'm telling you. In fact, someone called someone from the county, and it came when I was leaving, because a section of responsibilities, like moving, could be of the prefecture. By the time I was leaving, I saw someone who was coming, a new man was the man to see the problem. There are children in kindergarten who, when I went on 29 last month, don't go because they don't have a way to move. What parent from the five points of the Lecaundy will be able to take his child and take his child - by what means? - when the child has kinetics and special problems? The previous government went and abolished two specialties, the pediatrician and another one. You come and take over and don't bring them back. In this staff, there is not even a special assistant. They are set up in the same kindergarten, primary and secondary schools. You know very well what problems may arise even for the safety of workers, even for the safety of children, which are not always controllable. There's not even any auxiliary staff. The assistant staff - if you want me to tell you the top, now that you want to talk about the 5G and about these and the other - manuscripts does and delivers the job. There is no e-infrastructure in this kind of difficult thing either. I met heroes because parents had gathered too. I met parents of heroes, I met substitute heroes and heroes in a building in which, when I came in, I thought I was wrong in the area it is. I thought: In some factory I came from these old founded ones, which are totally inappropriate, which are not working. And for the transport, which can only be guaranteed by the state and specialized, he lifted his hands up. I need a timeline from you. When are you going, what are you going to do and how quickly? And don't tell me you can't build these two schools, one in Athens and one in Peristeri. Do you want us to mobilize all of us together? From a stone to take, we built it. Don't tell me there's no way we can do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u34	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Canelle, I agree. The question you raise probably did not have to discuss it if, in the last four years at least, there were no committees coming to the Ministry of Education to discuss and if we were just going to the level of intent. I will explain to you what I mean, especially with regard to the question of relocation to a possible place in Peristeri, because I am in contact with the municipality in particular, but also with the educator. I will, however, come back to this. We are talking in fact about credits, Mrs Kanellis, because until the end of the year - in the timetable, we seem to be consistent at the moment with what we said - we will be able to complete the tender from the AACC, the procedure, in any case, of the notice, which seems to be ending within the timeframe. Every day we talk with the AACC, effectively pressing, so that the recruitment of four and a half thousand teachers of special and special training staff can be completed. That was the beginning of the previous government. And you know, because you were here, that we had already expressed our own objections to this notice. We'd be doing it differently, probably. But we had prioritised what you said. We prioritised what is the immediate need, a more stable relationship between the child and whoever sits in front of him, especially where there is a greater need for special treatment. So we are moving forward, although this process has started slowly. The Ministerial Council Act was in February 2019 and the process started in April. I wonder if some people expected it to be over in September. Anyway, let us now say that the timetable will be respected so that appointments can be made. In the interim phase, we need to talk about surrogates. I'd like to give you the numbers to get the full picture. For the special scientific and special assistant staff this year, we have allocated 4.662 appropriations. I'll tell you, I'll go a little bit and I'll go to school, I won't go to general. It's important and I want you to hear it. Well, for the third of Athens four hundred ninety teachers are in primary school, two hundred school teachers in secondary school. Because you gave a number, I would like to give you an update of the data on special educational and special assistant staff. In children with special kinetic problems at the special school in Agaleo, we have four special assistant staff and four special educational staff. In primary school children, who are in the range of autism, have already gone to schools with a special staff of six, with a special education staff of six other people. At the special kindergarten in Aegaleo - you made special reference to what is in the range of autism, because, as you quite rightly said, there is a range of cases - there are two persons of special educational staff and the EEIG of EEIGs eight special staff, ten special educational staff. With the last placement of the last week, the two gaps in the school unit as a whole were covered, so there are no gaps in school. Please check, if you please, for correctness. But I'm telling you, on account of your knowledge. On the question of school, which you put, I came in contact with the municipality. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Should I continue in my dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u36	Complete this thought so that Mrs Canelle can answer it later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u37	Good. I made contact with the municipality. There is, indeed, a long wait, which had found two solutions. He had found a solution on the market of a plot, the plot that is located on the Pothos estate, but which has not been done. And there's also a temporary solution for the years that you should wait until construction, which is the former 3rd grade. In the former 3rd grade, therefore, there is a study that is still in the Building Infrastructure. Specifically, it is in the completion phase of the study. There is still study of statics and costing. We were told - because we also contacted the Building Infrastructures - that this with pressure, but it would be done, it could end in January, so that then the funding was found, we could go to the necessary tasks to enable it to become OSCE. You know that it takes a range of work to become OPREC and to be able to work in three, four years, so that the school can be built. So because we will not only talk at the level of intentions here, I will come back to give you, when the study is over, a timetable, because I am in contact with the municipality to fund this change in the use of the former 3rd Municipality so that it can set up and host the children from a really, saturated space, which is the entire school unit in Aigleo. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u38	Mrs Canelli has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u39	To accept that you have covered the gaps and checked the gaps, based on the demands that have been made lately. Organography doesn't exist. If you go with the organogram and the real needs, the gaps are too much of what we're talking about right now. Here I come and tell you to change policy, because you might talk about a replacement for this building, but take a walk for example in Kallithea. In Kallithea, where there is an O.R.E.C., it's the building that's ready. So, if we start a bandage here, I'll come back now. If anything happens in Callithea, I'll come back, I'll ask you a question, even if you've given me a timeline for Aegelo. The policy needs to be changed. Unfortunately, the problem is well known that it is both large and wide and that there are too many Greek families suffering from this thing. And especially moving is important. If there's no developmentist, while the needs are increasing, can I tell you what's going to happen? They take the kids to kindergarten and primary school and then they can't go on, not even at the same school or at the relevant ODR. There is neither the necessary scientific staff nor the necessary training and education programmes, which are modern. Outside there are possibilities for children to acquire special skills, problems and autism and kinetics. We don't have that kind of stuff. Any scientific staff who can be there, whoever you hire, if they do not change the policy of dealing with these things, if no effort or money is invested, who cannot be of the order of beggar, can't be predicted. But you can predict the evolution of science. And the development of teaching science is spectacular as far as these children are concerned. Pedagogical approach suffers. She's generally in school. But here, which is a specific problem, it is a tragic situation. As to whether you are in contact with the mayor or the prefect, if a parent were in my place, he would say: "Do whatever contacts you want, do whatever you want, I have the child at home and I can't take it." And the kid has to go to school. What are these people gonna do? Will they go to home help? So, a child who can have a future in the situation he is in, will we let it be treated like something that is "cemented" and lost? These things are not treated in fragments. So buildings must also have a single code. The study programmes require a central scientific perception of this issue. It's not a matter of charity. That's where I want to end up. It is not'solved a problem and I am squatting it'. You know very well that contact especially of autistic children and especially in young ages is very difficult, as is children who are skeptical. So when the replacements' recycling begins from zero every year, how will they feel safe? Or at what level - scientific - attention can you be in one class, when three different lessons are held at three different ages with three different specific problems? Man's mind doesn't fit. It's like you're watching a thriller on TV. I'm overreacting. I accept that I exaggerate. If I don't exaggerate, you won't understand. You won't understand it! Get up and go and see them with your eyes. Listen to the people. That's not what someone's coming here to get them out of their head to make a impression or make public relations. We're moving a problem. Our political position also has a history behind it. In other words, we have standards of how they were dealt with in other countries, what you once said 'the countries of existing socialism' and not existing capitalism. There have been miracles and miracles. Pedagogical and scientific conclusions have been drawn, which are now motto all over the world. But let us not talk about this. Because here we're looking for the ceiling not to drop on our head and they had closed parquet floors and kitchen to eat the kids in. This is another priest gospel. Fortunately, the JRC still keeps it open and reads it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u40	Minister, you have the floor for your second-guess on this, indeed, very important and very sensitive issue, which I will add my support.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u41	I would say with respect to Mrs Canelley that she does not have a monopoly of sensitivity. We may have been found either in family or as teachers themselves in dealing with this issue. I'm saying it because you've given me the urge to go. I may have gone, I know. Please ask the Ministry's response a few months ago to the reaction of some local features to the transfer of the OSCE Lamia, from Kostalexi to the center of Lamia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u42	So you understand that. You understand the tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u43	No, I just get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u44	You understand the tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u45	Of course, I understand that. Everyone can have a different way to report. It does not mean that a person is less concerned or that a person is less enraged with certain issues that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u46	I did not, however, put any interesting points here. Mr President, allow me not to go into the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u47	Because you said I'd go see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u48	Don't make it personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u49	Not at all. Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u50	Mrs. Canelle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u51	I'm telling you, because I really said it with all due respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u52	It's not personal, please. I haven't. Give me a chance not to get through to the Minutes because it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u53	No, we'll call it not even in. All right, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u54	We can't put an interesting meter on. The issue is a deep political one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u55	I agree. So because we talked about how it has been recorded in the past, I would like to tell you that, because you have asked a specific question about paedophiles - very important - it was the initiative of the New Democracy at the time that was introduced, if you remember. He had, anyway, been voted on by the Government of New Democracy. In fact, our party voted against the abolition of this specific qualification. Because the important thing is the next day, because all we're talking about is now and the next day, I want to tell you a few things that we discussed at the Ministry yesterday with the parents and teachers from the U.S. organizations in Greece. I want to tell you something which is also a programme declaration, but you will see that it is done. You will then also assess it in legislation after a legislative framework for strengthening special treatment. Detailed programmes, time schedules, need to be available. You put it before. Next issue is what happens after OSCEs. Parents come and say: “In fact, he took the child. Then what do I do?’ So there we are talking about protected laboratories, so they are said to give them the follow-up for children. So you will see a legislative framework that will be specific, that is, interacts with the field, that is, activities and initiatives, as I have told you, through interaction with parents and teachers living in the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u56	Move?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u57	Movement anyway has the Ministry of Education in the section of special schools. In the rest, you know it's the periphery. There, because Mr. Delis had put it in the last few weeks, he received an update on the movement from all over Greece. There was no question of it. Here, especially if there is a specific case, I intend and intend to look into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u58	You guys in kindergarten and autistics, there's a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u59	So I will see it specifically and promise you to come back with concrete information on it. But I'm telling you, because I looked into it, the agency didn't have a request recorded or a lack we didn't seem consistent anyway. But it is important for me to record on the reasonable questions you have raised, especially in the programme, that it is also a programme declaration and in our programme statements, that there should be detailed programmes, timetables and follow-up to the OSCE through the protected laboratories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too, Madam Minister. We continue with the Question No 916/25-9-2019 question by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Records and transfers of students to the 1st PES Sparta". Mr Arachovitis has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the debate scheduled for today on the registration and transfer of students to the 1st PESAL Sparta comes, unfortunately, after the decision of the last week of your Ministry to suspend the establishment of the thirty new university departments provided for in the Gravroglou Law, Law No.4610, where we had three schools in the University of Peloponnese, one of which was the Statistical and Analogal Science in Sparta. This year, the Physiotherapy School operates in Sparta and served well by a hundred new students in Sparta. This detracts from the argument that there was not sufficient preparation time. Here the fact that it worked this year in the first year already means that the time was sufficient, let alone the Statistical and Analogue Science planned for its operation from next year. So there was sufficient time. As far as dialogue is concerned, I think that until the committee formed by Mr Gavroglou was established by the scientific community there was a sufficient time, a sufficient dialogue with local communities too, so that we could reach these schools. But let's move on to the question. Here the problem was created precisely because of the great interest of children in the specialities of the ESDP. What happened here? From 2 to 11 September new electronic records and student transcriptions were accepted from the general schools to the ESDP. That's what happened very well. The electronic transcripts were made in the PSA. However, the time allowed for the finalisation of the departments was up to 10 July, while the entries were made with the extension given from 1 to 10 September. The departments, therefore, from the regional directorates were finalised on 10 July, while another sixty students who indicated their intention to sign them normally and legally go to the ESDP, remained out of departments. So these children are in the air right now - if you allow me to express themselves - why they have never been instructed on secondary education to create or integrate them into departments - above all we are talking about the engineering and health departments at the 1st PASAL Sparta - functionally to attend their courses. The question, of course, arises as follows: What about these sixty students? Will they join the departments or should they finally leave the ESDP? Finally, on Friday I received a written reply from the Ministry. A number of restrictions on the integration of decelerated records and relays are indeed being introduced. There is a grid of laws about what is going on with these children and their inclusion in the departments. However, today we are already in November and not September. The lessons have begun and the children are on the air. So it will be very important for all of us to be informed, and of course the children concerned, about what is going to happen and whether they will normally join the departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u62	Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u63	I will only make one comment on the first issue, although I am not the Minister responsible. I would therefore like to tell you that this is a suspension of sections - to be precise - and also to assess each section separately from the respective independent authority in terms of readiness and academic criteria. So no one spoke of dismantling. We talked about a suspension, but also about a responsible attitude to the children, because each section should be prepared. That's what the ministry showed up. No one spoke of a break-up. But I'm going to this particular issue. Mr. Arachovite, you should be aware that the restriction on registration and transfer did not make it by New Democracy. SYRIZA did him. Therefore, it should be sought through Ministerial Decision 799442 the reason that this restriction was probably invaded. Understanding that it would have something to do with programming. On the other hand, when a party - to which you belong - has raised the restriction of registration and the divisions have come out - we know that in September the registrations, re-registrations and transfers can only be made in operating sections - the question to us is rather steadfast, because you could also ask your colleagues why they did that. We have worked with a specific framework which we have also found in a ministerial decision, which we have also found. In fact, we have given all the room - and I think in time - for the September period with a slight extension for the entries and the translations so that the children can state the parts they want. It is our pleasure to have increased interest in vocational training. In any case, it is one of the objectives which Greece has for increasing the participation of high school graduates in vocational education. It's good to have it. It is a good thing, however, that the rules are respected. So what we have received from the Education Department is that there is no child in the air. As far as the authorised departments are concerned, the few members of the 1st ESDP Sparta were approved, while for the operation of the ESDP in general, according to the information system of the Ministry of Education - which is the "myschool" - there is no number in any section that exceeds twenty-five plus 10%, because there is this feature that you refer to in your question. At the same time, I told you that all students are registered and attending their courses. In the last phase of subsidization no gaps were declared by Laconia for this school and not sent, while all the remaining gaps declared were sent, i.e. all the teachers who were declared for the declared gaps for Laconia in general. So the question at the moment has been answered with the data provided by the addresses. I'm watching and waiting for your answer so I can answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u64	Here, Mr. Colleague, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you said, as I have pointed out, that this is a suspension for the thirty-seven departments. You said so too, so we have a chance of the time statistics running, after being examined. I got that. I guess the question was not understood. According to the information you have given us and the reply I have just received this morning, in fact, the few sections have been designated, but the children, which you mentioned in your reply, have also been designated, and they are based on the finalisation of the sections by 10 July. The extension was given - as you say 'we and you' - from 1 to 11 September with the new political leadership. The extension was then granted. What was the problem? That a second opening, if you like, was not given for the finalisation of parts or creation or integration, etc. Sections with the second timeframe of September. The problem was created because from September 1st to September 11th, the system was reopened for electronic recordings or transcripts, and with the first ones, the short-term entries and translations, the sections are as you say them. The problem is for the new entries and translations of September. These kids don't seem, they're not in the evidence you gave us and they've obviously given you the services. These kids don't look. I am talking about these children, and we must have an answer to them, and we must be clear. The question is pressing because now, as we said, we are in November, the departments have started and no gaps have been declared. And the important thing is, since the kids didn't join departments, we don't know the gaps we have. They didn't send you any gaps from the Laconia Secondary Department, so you don't know - you can't know - the gaps that exist so they can be covered. That is why perhaps the question at the time was tabled was a bell for what will happen. Now we're already in November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u66	Here you go, Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u67	Mr Papoutsis, I repeat that I use the information we have from the addresses every time. I also repeat that the departments are indeed defined by July, and if there is an exception, yes, September comes and then re-entry on parts that are already in operation. The evidence that we have at the moment, either derived from the Myschool, or from the gaps that have been given to the addresses of secondary school, shows that no child is in the air, that children are in the departments, and also, since there was a question of how and was not given on 29 August? We have already had three phases of alternates, such as on 25 September and even on 7 November last week.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u68	They haven't entered the department. That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u69	If that number exists, which exceeds, it is in sections. Shouldn't they be given? So the kids aren't on the air.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u70	They're not in departments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u71	It's not on the air.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u72	They're not in departments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u73	Where are the kids right now and how does the same school work if it doesn't give up?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u74	That's exactly what I'm saying, they're not part of departments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u75	So, right now you're saying there's been a mistake by the school director to the Secondary School? Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u76	No, the manager. Mr President, may I have the floor to record what I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u77	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u78	It is precisely because the Secondary Department has no mandate and has never opened a second date after September to place these children in departments, these children do not appear to be part of a section and it is only their relocation or registration of them, which indeed shows them in the 1st ESDP. However, from there on, the placement in departments cannot be done either by the Director of the ESDP or the Secondary School, because this deadline has never been opened. Understand? That's what I'm saying. They're in PSAF, they're not on their way, but they're not in the department, to give you a picture of the deficiencies or the completeness or not of the departments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u79	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u80	So what we are doing, Mr Papoutsis, as a ministry, is putting the framework which the previous political leadership had set in place. I repeat it to be clear. Besides, you know that, too. Let's not waste time with this. So the dates are also clear, very clear. If a request has been met that violates this framework, the terms, the limitations for whatever new ones were, it is something that should be declared from school to Secondary and Secondary at the same time to us. However, because before I came here I was talking to the training director, I would tell you that neither the gaps were declared out of there nor went through with us. Because I told you that we met all the applications for the gaps we had from the region, even waiting for the result with the presence of the teachers. We are coming back, if you want, in contact with the school and the address and together, so that we can see, if you want, the matter more thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u81	That's the best part, because the purpose is to solve the matter. The first, with number 1775-11-2019, topical question from the F' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The problems in the facilities of the National Sports Centre (ESC) Larissa, are not discussed with the Minister of Culture and Sports. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-11-S1-commons.u82	With the consent of the House at 19.41' the sitting on Wednesday, 13 November 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work, on the agenda which has been distributed, is closed.
