ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 30-7-2019, the minutes of its 1st session of Tuesday, 30 July 2019, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘ENVENIA Reduction and improvements in the settlement of debts to the Tax Administration of Law 4611/2019 (A 1973) and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity Member: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, on applications for waiver of immunity from MEPs, Mr Paul Pavlakis (two pleadings). A report on 30 July 2019 was announced by the competent Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which members of the Committee proposed the waiver of Mr Paul Polakis’ immunity in relation to the first case-file. The report was also announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 30 July of this year, according to which the members of the committee proposed by a majority in the second case-file the waiver of Mr Paul Polakis' immunity. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the parliamentary or political activity of the Member, or the prosecution or prosecution or detention of a Member of Parliament, conceals political feasibility. I think it is appropriate to stress here, especially for younger colleagues, that the lifting of immunity is neither a conviction nor a discharge. It's empty to take the matter to justice. It has nothing to do with the substance of the case, the procedure being followed here. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament shall decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have accepted, on applications for waiver of immunity, that the House decide by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. I would like to inform you that today's roll-call vote will take place in the traditional way, as the process of issuing Members' electronic cards is pending. The vote in which each fellow Member lists his name, his constituency and his parliamentary group will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Paulo Polakis today. The second, too, concerns my colleague, Mr Paulo Polakis. In the first case, for Mr Polakis, is there any colleague asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u2	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u3	Mr Paul Paulakis is asking for the floor. Please, Mr Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u4	Please, Mr President, and the second one together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u5	Good, because they're both yours, you'll talk about both of them. Time is five minutes for each case. So you've got ten minutes. Obviously there will also be due tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is neither a baby in this country, which has the slightest doubt that today's debate on the lifting of my parliamentary immunity for the offences of slandering defamation against the candidate in the recent elections of New Democracy, Mr. Stamatis Poulis, and the violation of confidentiality of telephone communication with the Governor of the Bank of Greece and former Minister of Finance on the coexistence of New Democracy - PASOK, Mr. Yiannis Stournaras, is a clear political persecution against me, a persecution by which the government majority in cooperation with some Members of the Change Movement seeks multiple benefits. It seeks, first of all, the degradation of the multitude of CEDEFOP scandals, which the SYRIZA government found, pointed out, forwarded to the competent authorities for investigation, and in which scandals seem to be leading leaders of these two parties, but also the majority of systemic media, public money-sharing scandals of hundreds of millions of euros, which were extinguished and implemented with the active involvement of many of the above. And they were being implemented even further, when the country was going bankrupt and the citizens were being called upon to save it from their misfortune. Today's debate also recommends an innocuous political act of retaliatory action to my face in the sense of both moral leashing and economic burdens and suffering, because precisely - and I know - I have afflicted the system in my ministerial term. It is also an attempt to force me to silence or annul in advance the criticism I will make from the headquarters of Anti-Population in a government which, promising at last, as demonstrated in the recent debate in the committees, recommends a state of Maria Antoinette, with four hundred forty posters, a state of Prime Minister and the neoliberal republic of the oligarchs. This is a reopening of the state and facilitating the 'days' for business as appropriate, without annoying voices of the 'Polakis' type. It is the first episode of a corresponding series of such movements. We know, gentlemen of the New Democracy. It's the first episode today. We have endurance too for many episodes. And you'll find out. When does that happen? At the same time that a few days ago my immunity comes, me here today, when a few days ago Mr Floros was released from independent Greek justice, who ate 250 million euros of citizens from PPC's accounts. And he went out last year because he was sleeping apnea and he was released this year. It comes at the same time that a record-time record was released last night by the police officer - the assassin of a 15-year-old child, the Corconese, not because of the criminal codes, Mr Pleuris - and leave that fairy tale - but because of the recognition of the lightening of the previous honest life by the judges. And that's all. Nothing else. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u7	You made a law...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Plori, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u9	Let's go down. The procedure chosen to remove my immunity through Article 62 of the Constitution, rather than Article 86, first of all demonstrates the political feasibility and unprecedented manipulation of the government's majority in order to achieve its objectives. In particular: Under Rule 83(3) and (7) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure - as you said, Mr President - the committee and then the House are investigating whether the act on which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity, or whether the prosecution or prosecution or indictment conceals political feasibility. To show the scale of the hypocrisy you have done for so many years, I will say this: from a rough control, from 1974 to now, fewer than a thousand applications for the waiver of immunity from Members under Rule 62 have been accepted by the Greek Parliament, even though - and this is hypocrisy - they have been in the hands of offences that had nothing to do with the status of parliament and even though they were clearly aimed at citizens who had nothing to do with politics. There are examples of these. Let me mention three - four: the case of the New Democracy MP, who was accused of beating his friend, the case of the car accident of Mr Hatzimichalis and the manslaughter of negligence, the violation of a speed limit in cases of Mr Stylianidis and Mr Varvitsiotis, the violation of a judicial decision by Mr Apostolakis, who former wife has denounced that it has hampered the communication of the child. Of course, there were other cases, such as the one concerning the President of the Parliament, where he had been denounced by a contractor several years later, when he was a mayor, for blackmail. Mr. Tsouulas in his apology at that time said: "The immunity must not be lifted when there is, among other things, a clear political incitement to the messenger. The only reason I conclude with this is that the complaint and referral are made public, while the Member's discharge is lost in the eyes of publicity. There is, then, a new extrajudicial penalty against the Member, the penalty for unfavourable publicity. Therefore, immunity should not be lifted.’ The President-in-Office tells us this in his case where immunity has not come, but then condemned the European Court of Human Rights. In fact, Mr Panagiotopoulos at the recent session on the Revision of the Constitution said that the House should be the institutional grid so that it is not a charity for the MPs in arbitrary intentions or abusive and unfounded references. I would like to make that clear in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm not asking for such protection. I'm not asking for that. I ask that I go, because I am a political person and Minister, under Article 86, with the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers to establish an open procedure. Here, we are at the initiative of the Government to discuss the extremely burning issue of my own immunity for the offence of slandering implied by a candidate of the New Democracy and the subject of four felonies and two misdemeanours, Mr Poulis, and that of the allegedly recording my conversation with the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournara. Obviously the government considers both ordinary citizens, not political persons who need protection from the allegedly wrongdoing MP, that is to say me. With regard to the offences, which are attributed to me, I would point out that, according to the opinion of the Scientific Council of Parliament of 28 November 2016 on the offence of slandering, the procedure laid down in Article 86 of the Constitution must be followed and the immunity of the Member should not be waived by Article 62. I would remind you of a recent case involving a rejection of your own votes for a similar case of Mr Constantine's MEP, who had sued him for the offences of false repression, fraud and slander during a football match. Secondly, in all cases where immunity came for the offence of the violation of the confidentiality of telephone communications, i.e. for Andreas Papandreou in 1990 in the Tobra case and for Constantino Mitsotakis in 1992 in the Mauritius case, the House did so with Article 86, referring them to the Special Court and not to a common criminal court. In my case, the choice of Article 86 would mean a political suicide for the New Democracy and some Members of the Change Movement, because this would mean the setting up of a special committee to carry out a preliminary examination, in which the committee would disclose publicly all the scandals of CEDEFOP, that is to say, the laundry of all those who had converted CEDEFOP into offshore for the spread of black political money. To avoid these revelations, the government majority in the Ethics Committee, assisted by the Members of the Change Movement and Velopoulos, has chosen an unprecedented misconduct. You don't even apply your urban democracy on the three days that they have to take even those arrested in the self-sacrifice! At 11.14 a.m. the committee came out at the "Parliamentary Transparency" and at 11.40 a.m. you had me call for the next day, from Tuesday to Wednesday. You haven't even let it pass in the three days. But I'm over that. I don't care. And it tries by such a process to baptize the cases as supposedly private differences which are not linked to the exercise of my parliamentary and ministerial duties, and the sues of Pouli and Stournara, respectively, as supposedly uncovered political purposes. I repeat, they claim that there are no political differences, and the complaint about supposedly recording my telephone conversation with Mr Stournara, which took place after his innocent and sometimes non-political statement that a check would be carried out to ascertain whether Attica Bank met all the conditions for the loan I received, a case that was raised by the media as the'migrant Paulakis scandal'. Nothing falseer! However, even so the government will not avoid hearing what needs to be heard. It'll all be heard. Let's start with Stamati Pouli, because for Stournara I want to say later. Who is Stamatis Poulis who sues me for slandering and want to go to court, as if we were going to divide our grandfather's fields? Mr. Poulis is the one who has been referred to justice for four felonies and two misdemeanors for the twenty-three in the first phase illegal appointments of Adoni Georgiadis, which was the way to increase by twenty-three people his poster, when he had completed the number allowed at the time, supposedly from sponsorship of "ESTEE LAUDER", which these people were supposedly working in the structures of CEDEFOP's seropositives, in which they never stepped in. The Ministry was the vast majority and partners. They falsified documents, forged documents, made infidelity against the public, smashing public money. The first case is that. And the second one is for another fifty-seven appointments, the same gang as Papademitriou and Poulis and his wife Theophilatos and the financial department of CEDEFOP Ms. Polyzos, who have been referred to and the first court for the crimes took place on 19. It's two cases, one for twenty-three and one for seventy appointments. At one time we have a split of 150,000 euros, on the other hand a split of 1.5 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u10	To be a gang.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u11	For a gang that's a felony. For the gang they're going, the courts became. The first courts were the day before yesterday. This scandal I discovered in here and then, when I discovered it, Mr. Georgiadis, who concerns one part of the assignments, swinged his finger and said: "I'll send you to jail." So in court, 19 and 25, Mr. Poulis was postponed. It was on the 25th court and on the 24th he was admitted to the People's Hospital, and on 26th at night he was discharged. There was a crisis of acute cholecystitis which I must congratulate the colleagues who hospitalized him there and within two days managed to calm down the cholecystitis without surgery and to enable man to go home to continue his vacation. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm filing it. [[At this point the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Stamatis Poulis is the one who found him 240,000 euros in the accounts of the Anti-Counterfeiting and Legalization Authority for Criminal Activities, which he cannot justify. For two years it had taken about 60 to 70 grand and brought an invoice for 25,000 euros, which had no stamps, but they said, but it had been collected and sent to the committee for the inaccurate statement of the "outside", but also to the prosecutor in order to prosecute him for money laundering. He had 240,000 euros in his accounts, which are not justified, the individual who sues me that I insulted him. I'm filing that too. [[At this point the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr. Stopatis Poulis is the one who took over through illegal award procedures the structure of CEDEFOP seropositives. His wife, Mrs Theophilatos, was the head of the CEDEFOP's Administrative Coordination Department, which recommended all the costs and other costs of the institution. The sister of his wife, Mrs. Theophilatos, was seconded to Adoni Georgiadis' office when she was Minister. This sister's husband had two companies, one construction technique and one catering. Incidentally, therefore, Mr Poulis, President of the Association of CEDEFOP and your candidate - while you knew that, thankfully, at least your world did not elect him - he did, in breach of all procedures, without any competitions, without any direct awards to his Bajanaki - I repeat, in his Bajanaki! - twice for the maintenance of the building, the CEDEFOP's seropositive hostel with 130,000 euros in the first year and 150,000 euros in the second year. I mean, he gave 150,000 euros for a five hundred-square building to have a standby shop to change a lamp or close a pipe that will lose water. He was giving 150,000 euros at the same time as at the corresponding expense for six refugee hospitality centres that CEDEFOP had on the border and Evros at the time, for the six centres in much larger buildings, gave 25 000 euros. Mr Poulis - who sues me because I slandered the child - gave a contract for the feeding of fifty people worth EUR 177 000 a year! Do you understand? He was giving 177,000 euros a year! He was honoring at the same price whether it was calf, it was steak, it was lentils, or it was peas, whatever you get, 12.5. Is that right? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's the Mr. Bird who's slandering me! I'm doing this, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm taking a break to go to the other one. Mrs. Theofilatos, his wife, Mr. Poulis - because she is a gang - is the one under Minister Adoni Georgiadis and follow-up Voridis - the rest - has her suggestion and signature in eight hundred ninety-seven advertising contracts from October - say - of 2013 until the end of 2014. Eight hundred ninety-seven conventions! I cannot make the sum, it can be EUR 10 million, it can be EUR 15 million, it can be EUR 20 million. Because these obvious things I found sent us an employee, I've forwarded them to the Corruption Attorney's Office, there's been an audit. I know - and I said yesterday, Mr Gerapetititi - that this is a case that has been searched - and it has to be searched a great deal for it to be haunted - and it is one of the cases for which the Public Administration Inspector-General is making the conclusion. I know, because we've taken them a shut-up, that this case is over. He's got to move on. Here is the dirt of the country's media system. Here, in this file, it turns out because when I first revealed in October 2015 in the joint interview that we had then given with Andreas about advertising expenditure for the various programs of the CEDEFOP, I was hit by all the journalists and presented all the channels. And while I was told by a negligent - a lost body - dog, that didn't show any channels, but he showed the answer. Here, then, looks like the five-kilometres that were leaving like the hail, to banner into a site that their mother doesn't know about, "ellinesdimarxoi.gr", "velonakaiklosti.gr". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Wait a minute, I'm sorry. A number of sites located in the sixty thousand, in this ranking series that gave "Amazon" are in position "six hundred and seventy thousand cents of three (670.163)" and takes 10,000 euros. The other - 'goodnews.gr' - fifteen grand. The other - 'Argolical News' - is in position four hundred thirty-nine. Take a pound and you, too, and we'll feed you! Some well-known, which are also very back, got 85 thousand euros, 75 thousand euros, 70 000 euros. In this list is all the dirt, the rotten systemic media, which proves that the CEDEFOP, this offshore of the Ministry of Health, has evolved into a communication control mechanism in order to lurk governments. This story began on Avramopoulos, but reached the maximum in the period of Mr. Georgiadis, during the memoranda. At the time that they cut everything, when they put down five and a half thousand people, all of us here were snuggling them and we brought nine and a half thousands of doctors to the system, who took hospitals with 730 million euros and left them with 300 million surpluses, to us who opened aerospace base in Syros and Aktiu, every day we find these media. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am presenting, for there to be in the House and for the historian of the future, all this list of these conventions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact in here - to say it all, I'm not afraid of anyone - there is a Member of your Parliament who, in December 2014 and in January 2015, took about 90 thousand euros. It is Mr. Pope from Rhodes, who had the "Aegean Dream Web" site, which was funded by this amount. So he did his election campaign in 2015. He opened it in the name of his wife and mother-in-law, his wife and his secretary - something like that - and then a year later he closed it. He took ninety grand and closed it. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. It's all here in detail. [[At this point the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It is of great value to read some titles: "amesa.gr" took 16 thousand euros. Wonderful visitability this site! What black political money is behind it? There are dozens of them. I don't want to say much. Inside this, there is also Mr Takis Hatzis of "Newpost.gr", who took about 150 thousand euros at the time. So Stamatis Poulis and his wife have taken and built - and this has gone to justice and are looking for it - offshore in Bulgaria, the "Red Pepper". It's made by Poul's wife, sells her to Pouli, enters Mr. Hatzi's wife, and after a while, they close it. What can anyone assume?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Polakis, may I ask you something? How much time do you think you're gonna need?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u13	I'm in the middle of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u14	You have a right to speak. But on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u15	Why, isn't that a matter? That is the point, Mr President. That's the point! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What is the point, Mr President, if I said "dry" to Pouli? That's why I said shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u16	You're not addressing me. I want to know your time, how much you count.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u17	I'll take it as fast as I can. They are therefore making this offshore in Bulgaria, Mr Kamine, with 1 lb, it says, 1 euro, etc., which has no movement. Look at that, boy, one thing! His wife signifies the advertising expenses of the whole earth, he is a prominent member of the gang, making offshore in Bulgaria to deal with, says, tourism and putting a partner in that year, 2013-2014, 150 thousand euros from the CDC. Innocent all! It happened! They want to develop their business demon and they open to Bulgaria! They don't launder black money! That's what justice is looking for. And that must be, Mr Gerapetti. I tell you one - one, to know what can be done with the Transparency Authority, which the Prime Minister will appoint, because if he designates the responsible person, he can say to him: 'This does not go any further, the other move it forward'. And now I can talk until tomorrow night, but we'll have a long time, because you'll bring in another case, and we've got another thirty of those. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Wait a minute, I'll testify to you here, again, so they can stay in history and the historian of the future can see them. It is what I have said, part of these conventions. Read here and get your head up! To give, he says, a newspaper of 20,000 euros - "PARAPOLITICA", Kurtakis - to publish an article on polio in Syria! Yes! There's really one here. I challenge the media to publish these. If they have more to inform the Greek people, the ones in here that are in here to publish, the world to see the tens of thousands and twenty-thousands and the tens of millions who left the period we owed 15 million euros to the Swiss and went to cut off our transplant program! That's why there was no money! We paid this back and took the program back. And here to share the tens of thousands as if they were lettuces to feed the media with ridiculous excuses. Take those too, but I want a photocopy of them. [[At this point the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] That, of course, did not start with the latter. Mr Avramopoulos has started this beforehand. Here she is, there she is! Because it's the continuity and it's the same case, because this gang has been there ever since, and they're the same people, this Papadimitrio who offered services. "Children, they control SMEs." Come here, Mr. Avramopoulos, let me fix you up. Come here, Mrs. Zeetta Makri, I'll fix you up. Come here, Mr. Loverdo, let me fix you up. Come here, Mr. Adoni, I'll fix you. Look at this ERIC grant from the product of the last anticancer fundraiser. They gave him, he says, one and a half million euros to fund the national prevention campaign against cancer: 1.5 million from the anticancer fundraiser and 2 million more to make a record of neoplasms. He made a "excelaki" and took 2 million, 3.5 million from the product of the anticancer fundraiser! We, the 3.5 million left, gave it to the "God", the "Savvas" and the "Metaxas" and bought radiotherapy equipment. They hadn't had time to eat them! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Take this, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Relocation of the building. That's all done in Avramopoulos. They're looking for them. They cover them up, but the file reopened. Don't with the new prosecutor you're gonna put on the Arrow ice again. Is that right? That's right! Because Mrs. Demetrius had filed an appeal to the burying of the loan that she received from the CDC of 200 million. If you see the document you got the loan with Pierrotsaku signature, you don't go to the grocery store with such a document to get the EUR 200 million CIF! Take the building that was of an objective value of EUR 3.5 million and finally cost EUR 17 million. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Take the maintenance of the electromechanical equipment in the building of the EMCDDA, 3,182,000 euros in half a year to sustain. What were they upholding? They keep up, he says. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And get 600,000, 900,000, 800,000 euros a "MET". Who's in the back here? Sponsored by the group "ANT1" for "Excellence of Life and Public Information Actions on Flu" of 1 million for the Ethics Awards! One million in "AND1"! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] After the building in Vari: Four times completed. The completion, I'm sorry, three more times: 2.3 million once, 1 million the other, 1,230 million the other. Finish it here, too, against accomplishments! That's it until 2012. That gang inside, they themselves! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Purchase of the thermal cameras for the flu. She did - the best - 8,000-9000 euros, here 115,000 euros! That's how you bought them, 6 million! And we found them down in the basement, under the EMCDDA to have caught dust! Again, the construction work that she had and the maintenance she had and the cameras! Take this, too. "SCAI"! Here's the quarterbacks, here's the tracosars, to showcase the actions of the CEDEFOP, etc. Take this, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There's a list here. This list is also of historical value here. And these are in the D.A. We're the ones who got it. Seven, eight years had them buried. Read some titles: "Production of two television spots for AIDS in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, Agalia and Bomb Day". It cost 178.500 euros. Who took it? The ‘Le Spot Productions’. "Television spot Parea -32", 83,000 euros. "Television two spots for AIDS, Agalia Day", 169,000 euros. 'Captaining events', 16,000 euros. ‘Production of three smoking spots’. That was the anti-smoking campaign you did at the time. Do you remember then at Avramopoulos, “Greece is cutting the cigarette”? Do you know how much these posters cost? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You do the same now. I hope that now that the Prime Minister brings EGE into his hands, do not again see some advertising campaigns "Greece is quitting smoking", because here is not a sum of: ninety-five, a hundred forty-six, a hundred forty-three, three, forty-three etc. Three pages are the titles for smoking. SKAI, 10 single minutes, 124,000 euros for smoking, and that's why it's bothering him that I smoke. "Organisation - an event for the presentation of the National Cancer Action Plan", EUR 92,000, "CIVITAS COMMUNICATION". They all have names and addresses here. Take those, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's the Pool guys! He sued me! That's the private person I slandered. So, about the post I'm telling him, "Shut up, Pool, and tell him how much you got" about them I told him here. It was for the following reasons, because I was so angry. Because, while he has done all of this, he interviews the "Liberal.gr" he says about violating his duty and muddling the Papaspyrous who is looking for him. He's upsetting them in the lawsuits there, the auditors. And to me, he has sued and sued them, and that's where they were looking for them. It turned out that this guy had forged a document to cover his past and all that they were saying was lies. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Where they came out and said they were from the sponsorship of "ESTEE LAUDER" it turned out that it was from the state budget and from the National Bank that these poster of Georgiadis. He gets out and says that. He's posting the twitter. "From a crypt to a crypt," where we found them and they were cut off, because they were stuck there under the CDC, but we found it. That's where it turns out he was keeping the CDC file. That was where and where the EUR 90 million that did not appear in the balance sheets went, this sum of revenue and expenditure. There are EUR 90 million not recorded, but they seemed to be there, of what they were there and which are, of course, tons and they are looking for everything, and I believe that this must end. It was a lot of money, 90 million. And he says: "From a crypt to a crypt and successes continue." I'm filing it in the Minutes. Then he began to tell me again about Matty, "the civilized ones respect the dead, Paulakis represents the most rotten ones".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Polakis, it's good to be shortened now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u19	I'm short. He blames me for kicking out the contractors from the hospitals and the CDC. They blame me for spending a year with the guardian on the CDC, because we did the contests for the intensive care unit and for the reception centres, the identification of refugees with gender in one and this mechanism that was inside did not make the other contest. They blame me! "Polish, desperate to sit and swell us up." Blonde spoke of a mob mentality. "You who say that, how do you characterize this decision?" She went out to Liacho and found me last night. That is why I said to him 'Shut up'. Because I know what he's done. I obviously didn't say "shut" to him because we want to share our grandfather's fields or because we have economic and trade differences between us. As part of my ministerial duties, I revealed these dirt, I sent them to the prosecutor. I have a political dispute with him. I don't have a personal argument. That's why I'm asking to go with the Ministers Responsibility Act. I'm not saying we don't look into it. That's what I'm asking for in this case. Let's go down. When he sued me, he told her that day when I wrote him what I wrote to him and made it three months later, the last day he could do it. He came here when you came with the quarter... Of course you have not complied with the deadlines. Now we're going to the Stournara case. Another private one. There's no one in the past. With Mr Stournara himself, I've crashed many times. One of the times when we crashed - I told him publicly, posted, with statements - is the last episode I will tell you. There were more of them before. "The country does not come out, it does not go through the evaluation." Mr Stournaras, the independent banker, has a credit line that performs the role of neutrality. When we said we'd go out clean, go out and say we need a credit line, or a new memorandum. I had made a tough criticism of him at the time. Or when we were recently voting on tax reductions and tax reductions, etc., he went out and said "financial derailment". Now where is he? Where does it shove? He doesn't talk at all. He's got it all right. Imagine what money we left with you, right? Now all the 200 million more you give for the relief of HISPIA - and you do well - they neither derail the country. Now he's going to make suggestion to remove the Capital Controls. Now Greece has entered the green meadows that we run with rinsed stumps, happy people because it grows. That's the point. This is Stournaras. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What's the matter? It's not what he's doing to me now for the conversation. It's the following. His wife has illegally taken money from CDC. What's it called, baby? For the e-health forum she's also been to court. She got deferred, too. Now it's about to happen. He was organizing a conference organized by each country when he had the presidium. With a series of challenging procedures initialled by Adonis Georgiadis and the General Secretariat of Public Health, Ms. Papanikolaou...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u20	Mr Polakis, I repeat that you have gone far beyond time. I would like to remind you that you are not addressing a jury. They are MPs who will vote for the waiver of your immunity. You're addressing a jury. They're not jurors. It's premature what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u21	I address the Greek people. Not in a jury. That's where I'm headed. He was assigned directly to the organization of this conference. No seven hundred grand, some of the European programme, some of the CEDEFOP. They ate them with the Music Hall. And he's been there for two cases. One is synergy in breach of duty, and the other is because it has gone to the beginning of the "outside" it controls, because other money says they gave more money they showed in the invoices that they took. One case is that. [[At this point the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The other case, the first, for which this terrible and terrible interview was, when we first started, was that it had taken again by scandalous procedure - the competition ended, they extended it after it ended, the company took it in cooperation with another EUR 1 million, the advertising expenditure on cancer. CEDEFOP could not make advertising expenditure on cancer, because it is not an infectious contagious disease. But we forget that. Don't do that. The term hadn't come in if it had been convicted before, which had been convicted, so it couldn't have been involved. Of course he gets this work. And it does not prove - because it changes the natural object of the work, of advertising, because it used subcontractors, then volunteers - if these spots were actually put in place. Six hundred and fifty grand got ahead of it, and Mrs. Stournara's company and her partner took it from that story. [[At this point the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Well, this U.S.F. finding has gone, searching with all the cases. Mr. Gerapititi, do you hear? Here are five other cases, six cases which are findings of this kind, which have had to be searched by the ILO since the beginning of laundry, to see if the invoices were actually declared. I know that the checks have gone a long way, and that's the serious thing about Stournarana. It's not just e-health. With the rest, we'll catch the story with the "NOVARTIS" and see you in the next episode. So I went out and said it in public, reported it and sent it to the prosecutor. The first court came out, and it was almost gone, because there was a conscious delay. So what? We ran 10 and 11 billion our time and our hand didn't put it in money at all or so! Yes, I am! I said it! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] More I got out as a doctor than I'm getting as a Member and a minister, precisely because I didn't spread my hand by the money. I got a loan of 100 thousand euros in a way that other seven hundred like me had taken from that bank. And it is leaked by Anastasiades' "CORDER THEME".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Polakis, we've gone too far. We agreed to a smaller speech. Please respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u23	But I have to apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u24	Please. You're not here to apologize. It is another task to have this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u25	He leaks it into "CORDER THEME", makes it Sunday, reproduces all the means...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u26	Please put an end to your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u27	And Mr Stournaras comes out with a leak of the Bank of Greece and says "I will check the loan of Paulis", to make it a specul that I took it - and well - illegally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u28	Please, a perfect one, Mr. Polakis. We've said half an hour, it's crossed the line.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u29	Yeah. Three quarters.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u30	No, no, Mr. Polakis. You should be done in a minute. You must be done. That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u31	In a minute, I can't finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u32	It's not a court of law. You've confused the audiences.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u33	So Mr Stournaras comes out and gives the leak and I call him, and I say to him: 'First, I should normally record you, as the bank records us every time we call you.' And I keep going: "You do well and control my loan, you do well. But you do it on purpose, because we have the last ones. But also check the loans of "KERYKA OF CHANGES", "THEBOUT THEM" which 17 million is due, to check the loans of other MPs, for which you have never applied for. Check these loans, like mine and come and tell you who they are, if you don't know." I would also like to refer a reference to the 'COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE'. The court had taken out forgiven Anastasiades. He was calling the Prime Minister, telling him he had a house in Switzerland, that he was a liar. And now that the will's out, here's the properties in Switzerland, here's the properties in Zurich, there's the cash in the trust.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u34	It's embarrassing to talk about a man who's dead!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u35	Don't talk, Marcopoulou! That's why you were eating bread. That's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u36	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u37	Two hundred euros a month could only give. Shame on you for supporting him! For these reasons, which are clearly linked to my parliamentary, political and ministerial activity, the lifting of immunity is now coming. That's why. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that you are trying through this process to underestimate me, to lower me, to damage me, to muddle me, as you have done in the past period and I know you will continue to do so. But you will - and I tell you clearly - a hole in the water. I'm too high, too high. So high you can't see me. And you know why? Firstly, because my daughters - today's law student, Stavroula, and tomorrow's, because the grades, the medical student, Persa, who is here today, and thank you, my love - say they're proud of me! Are your kids telling you? They say it to me! I'm high, too high! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] I am high, very high, because the channian people and the Cretan people in the country of Prime Minister and Ms. Bakoyannis first took SYRIZA and first MEP and only because of the electoral law, showing that I recognize and that I am clean and what I have done. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Despite the mud, despite the money Kurtakis threw and various local supermarques down there to mud me, you didn't make it. Fifteen thousand four hundred votes, fifteen thousand four hundred nails to you. I am high because thousands of people from all over Greece these days have sent me infinite messages of support for the style: "Continue, don't stop. We are with you, next to Alexis, go on again." That's why I'm here, so I'm waiting for you, so I'm not afraid of you, so we're going to continue. I'm not quiet, I'm not stopping, I'm not suppressing the flag. Try, I challenge you to put me in jail. You won't make it. The ideas, the values, the clean people in the end are not defeated, take the hampari, in the end are not defeated. The ideas become spark and fire and puts the fire on the grounds...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u38	But there must also be an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u39	The end is coming. There it is, here it is! ...the poor, the underneath, the despised, the social majority that we represented and we will represent again. We're not afraid of you. First time the Left ruled after seventy years. We have done much, learned more from our successes and from our mistakes and from our boldness and determination and from our hesitation and indecisiveness in some other cases. The people who touched their hope in 2015 to us and today believed you will return to us. It will come back, because we, where we arrived, arrived at the value of our minds and hands and not because we are fruits of political jackals or because we were pushed by shipowners, publishers and oligars. Because we proved that we were next to the money and we didn't spread out that you didn't prove it. Because we have not signed a declaration of repentance or a declaration of subjection. Because we in our youth smelled the lizard of freedom of society without exploitation, and that smell will never forget it. Because we are going to make a more mature political plan by opening SYRIZA to the social forces that supported him and reached him in almost 32%, by scrupulously expressing the interests of the young, the poor, the small and medium-sized, the farmers and the scientists, who will again ask them to pay large blood taxes to satisfy the 5% of the society you are expressing. That is why we are and will be determined and we challenge you to continue. I want to finish with two lady-in-laws: "Hands that didn't grab foreign bread to eat, they keep the price as heavy as it may be." [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] "In the transition of humanity and honor to debt, I will stand there to fight and be the last." And I'm not the last one, we're a lot of people. Vote now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u40	Does any of the Parliamentary Representatives want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u42	Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. As a parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA, but also as a member of the Ethics Committee, I would like to make a statement to this House regarding everything that happened last week. As you know very well, Mr Paulakis mentioned it in his speech, the Ethics Committee was set up last Tuesday. At 11.14' a.m., we posted on the relevant website of the House the formation of the committee and only half an hour after the members of the committee were informed that the committee will meet the next day on the matter of discussing the waiver of immunity of Mr. Polakis. So we have seen an intense rush, which eventually resulted in the first violation of the Rules of Procedure by the committee on the fact that it was not given the three-day period required by the Rules of Procedure in order to prepare for everything we had to discuss. However, I think that this was the smallest violation, if you like, of the Rules of Procedure, but also of the Constitution that was meant to follow, and that is why I am opposed to it. The issues that the committee had to discuss were obviously related to Mr Poulis's case, who filed the indictment to Mr Polakis on slandering, but also to the case of alleged violations of telephone secrecy, the preliminary examination that he had automatically initiated on the case of Mr Stournara. Both cases concerned a period of time during which Mr Paulakis, as we were well aware in the committee and as you well know, was Deputy Minister of Health. This means that the Committee on Ethics of the Parliament did not even have the power under the Constitution to discuss the issue of the lifting of the immunity of Mr Polakis, but on the contrary, it was directly required to return the file to you, the President of Parliament and, at the same time, the procedure laid down in Rule 86 of the Constitution, since there were thirty signatures of Members of Parliament, to set up the Committee on Preliminary Examination, which was the only one in charge. There is no other way to decide whether and whether the relevant cases were related to the duties of Mr Polakis as Minister or whether these cases should be reintroduced to regular justice in order to initiate the regular procedure on the basis of common criminal laws. The majority of the committee chose not to respond to this very clear legal argument, which was supported by the Independent Scientific Committee of the House in previous cases, has chosen to circumvent it - Mr Paulakis said that we have the opinion of the Scientific Council of Parliament which says that the Ethics Committee does not have the power to decide on this matter, but on the contrary, the procedure laid down in Rule 86 should be followed - in order to continue a procedure that reasonably created the suspicion that it was predetermined regardless of the arguments that would be heard within the committee. The third question concerns whether and whether the issues discussed by the committee, these cases, related to or not to the duties of Mr Polakis as Minister. Despite the fact that there was no committee's competence to make a judgement on the matter, I will tell you that it was demonstrated by Mr Polakis' speech in the clearest and most clearest way that both cases were related to his duties as Minister, that they concerned CEDEFOP and a number of cases, which Mr Paulakis had put forward and which ended up in major political and judicial disputes. We therefore believe that the committee without argument has violated the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall proceed to a fourth point. Some people say that we are asking for the establishment of a Preliminary Examination Committee under Article 86 of the Constitution to be allegedly hidden. I think that this argument has also been answered in the most clear and unequivocal way already and effectively by Mr Polakis' speech. The reason why you do not want to set up a Preliminary Committee is precisely so that it does not become public, extensive and long-term debate about everything that has been denounced here today by Parliament's Step. So the person who is now asking for the application of Article 86 and the setting-up of a Preliminary Examination Committee is the one who wants to reveal and not hide. You want to hide behind an unconstitutional procedure that refers to regular justice cases that have a strong and clear political weight. I also come to the fifth point: for those who say that SYRIZA was supposed to be in contradiction with itself because it calls for the setting-up of a Committee on Preliminary Examination, I would remind you of this. The opposition of the SYRIZA and the previous government majority to Rule 86 did not concern Parliament's competence to discuss and ultimately exercise criminal prosecution. It was exclusively a question of the fact that Article 86 today provides for reduced amortisation deadlines for ministers, if you wish, by introducing safety and cover-up differences - as we want to say - on matters or criminal offences relating to the duties of former Ministers. There is therefore no contradiction, because at this stage there is no issue of limitations to anyone. With all these facts, we say that we will not in any way legitimise the successive violations of the Constitution, we will not legalise this process and even now call on you to make the move and ask for the setting up of a Preliminary Examination Committee on the basis of what is provided for in the Constitution. In any case, we are obliged to leave this process and in no way tolerate the flagrant violation of the Constitution, in which, Mr President, you have, unfortunately, the same responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u44	Mr Varoufakis, as a party secretary, Mr Mera25 and Mr Lambroulis, have been asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u45	I request the floor as a member of the Ethics Committee, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u46	That's not foreseeable, Mr. Lambroulis. Parliamentary Representatives speak for the Presidents of the parties at this meeting. But I wanted to say beforehand, as President of the House, because my Mr. Janakopoulos blamed me for the allegedly unconstitutional procedure, that it is of great interest to think that he said - what I am saying is Parliament, not the substance of the matter, I will speak to you about the procedures relating to Parliament - that it seemed to him that the Ethics Committee had decided beforehand. Today he announced his party's departure before he heard the other view. So it is a question of what it means to 'decide'. When you leave before you hear the rival, you've made up your mind. The Ethics Committee had also heard Mr Janakopoulos and Mr Polakis when he decided. So we must once again determine what 'decided' means. And, in this respect, it was not the decision of the Ethics Committee. Now, in the order of speakers, Mr Varoufakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Merra 25 will vote against the double request for the waiver of immunity of Mr Polakis. I'll explain right away why. But, before I explain why, I want to give a message to colleagues in the New Democracy. Colleagues, we didn't start well. I have listened very carefully and with pleasure to your programme statements by the Prime Minister to speak of a political culture. In two days you make two major personalities, two inadequacies on the political culture. Yesterday you brought us an amendment in favour of Mr Latsis at the last minute. Today you are triggering - we have seen it here, in this Chamber - so that Parliament can continue to be mobilised through cohorts, through discussions which should be of great interest, but which must be done institutionally, so that we can get to the bottom of complaints on the one hand and on the other. I now come to the point. Mr Paulakis asked for the case to be discussed on the basis of the Law on the liability of Ministers. We believe that since the case concerned a period of Ministership, it is clear that this has to be done. As far as I have heard, in committee the reasoning for rejecting this request was that the law on the liability of Ministers is time-consuming. There is no doubt that the law on liability of ministers is unacceptable. He is condemned to the conscience of both most Members and the Greek people. But what do we do about it, friends and friends, colleagues? As parliamentarians, we had to change the law on the responsibility of Ministers, not bypass it, and bring the matter as a waiver of parliamentary immunity. However, even if this is the case, parliamentary immunity is withdrawn when there is no political feasibility in the proceedings, in the case, in the case. It is clear - only we can usually agree with Mr Polakis - that this is not a dispute here about how to separate the fields from two neighbours. It's purely political controversy. So that's why, without actually entering into the matter, without judging either the style or the morality of the plaintiff, the defendant. That is why Merra25 is voting against the lifting of immunity. You will allow me to close - and I will not go beyond three and a half minutes, Mr President - with the proposal of the Merra 25 in general, institutional ones. When I saw a former Minister get up at the Step with so many papers, with complaints that go deep at the root of the problem of interlocutory - whether they are solidly built, built or not - and all these papers go to the ladies and gentlemen of the Secretariat, I was thinking who would examine these papers. These are heavy complaints, ladies and gentlemen. We propose - and we will propose it in other cases - that a body of prosecuting political and business crime, which can do the work that no committee of inquiry can do. Furthermore, Merra25 in its election programme has included two proposals. Firstly, to change the legal regime for lawsuits and complaints to all citizens, so that scientists can not suffocate citizens with good lawyers. And, when we do so, when the political speech and the freedom of political speech are not persecuted for any citizen, then we will propose that all of us lift immunity, abolish parliamentary immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Lambroulis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. That's less than five minutes. We simply want to have a position, as we did in the Ethics Committee. As you know, the meeting took place one day after the vote on the schedule statements on issues, issues, the confrontation between the former Deputy Minister of Health Mr Polakis and the Government of SYRIZA and the former President of CEDEFOP workers, as well as the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournara. We want to stress that the whole process, as we have pointed out in committee, has been warning and warning, if you wish, about this risk: that of recycling, which had emerged in the previous period, in our view, of unacceptable controversy, which overshadowed the substance of the problems and the issues, which means that a vicious circle, which had a strong bearing on the disorientation of our people, is continuing. So, regardless of the criticism the Communist Party has made in the former Deputy Health and the SYRIZA Government, for positions and practices that do not agree with us, our opinion is that these issues, if you wish, must be dealt with politically and politically in order to avoid a new cycle of pointless controversy and at the same time disorientation. On this basis, in committee, as we will be doing today in plenary, we voted against the proposal to waive immunity of Mr Polakis. And I close with this: in terms of scandals, CEDEFOP, NOVARTIS and go by saying, the position of the Communist Party is clear, that is to say, that all these cases should be investigated and investigated by justice and that the responsibilities and, of course, the criminal responsibilities where they arise and exist. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Loverdos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have actually heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Janakopoulos, explain the reasons for their abstention from this procedure. I say, Mr President, with no surprise, but no surprise, because for four and a half years we have lived in the two previous periods of the House, at the time, a majority within the Ethics Committee, but also in plenary, in violation of every line and every word in the Constitution concerning Members' privileges and the responsibility of the Ministers, and every provision and every word in the Rules of Procedure of this House. Why am I saying this? Because it is very well known to everyone, at least to those who at least deal with the law and, in particular, to constitutional law, that it is another thing to do with parliamentary immunity and a completely different thing to do with the responsibility of the ministers. It's a classic, basic, absolutely specific subject and one and the other. What did Members of the European Parliament and the government do for four and a half years? They have set up a mechanism of thought and have drawn some conclusions, according to which, when a Minister causes an accident with his car drunk, exalted or slandered, committed any daily offence which all our fellow citizens have a responsibility for this before the courts, if he is a minister, if he is in this capacity, that is to say, if he coincides with the person and the status of a citizen who has committed a crime but also with the Minister's status, then the status of the Minister prevails and the procedures laid down in Article 86 must be mobilised. It's tragic in his mind! It is tragic in the thought of those who invented this! And so a number of cases brought by the judiciary to Parliament under Article 62 of the Constitution, namely the waiver of immunity, have turned them into acts related to Article 86 of the Constitution and they have said 'Let pre-examination committees be set up'. While they did this for four and a half years, they blamed the House of 2000 and 2001, which revised the Constitution, specifically accused the majority rapporteur, Mr Vangelis Venizelos, of blaming their party, who had voted for all such a provision at the time, and said that in each case, which concerns others, Article 86 is an obsolete article, which must be abolished and poorly implemented. As for their own ministers, for offences that had nothing to do with their responsibilities and duties they raised the ministerial status, which prevailed in the capacity of the citizen, and said that they should go with the law on the responsibility of Ministers, but which is the result of the conduct and political proposal by Vangelis Venizelos and PASOK and so on. This was said by the current Chief of Officership and then Prime Minister. But when it was about others who did not belong to their own party, then things took their normal order. And because I am personally concerned with this, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind those who left that, when my case came here, I refused to put forward my rights under Article 62 of the Constitution and I refused, before justice, to plead for lack of competence, proclaiming my ministerial status, and let justice do its job. This is the attitude that characterises someone who says, as I say since 2006, that Article 86 of the Constitution needs to be changed. If it happens and comes up in case of yours, what you say more politically about others, do what you suggest for others and yourself. So these measures and weights, the different - different if they are for us, otherwise if they are for opponents, different for each other - we as PASOK and Change Movement do not respect them. On the contrary, we say that our behaviour must be an attitude which tells the citizen that what applies to him also applies to us, let alone - and I conclude with that, Mr President - when the previous majority, with its lawyers, also invented a special structure that was completely unconstitutional, but which was passed as a decision of the minority and in the process of reviewing the Constitution, that is, they passed it as a proposal. They have invented the fact that there are certain offences that only one Minister can commit, which are not related to his duties, but are carried out when he is in the performance of his duties. And after they made this unconstitutional choice, they don't even see to it for themselves. We therefore have, Mr President, and I conclude with this, a political party which, either as a majority or as a minority, follows the dual data rule: but for themselves, in their own interests, others. This practice is now due to be abolished by the majority of the House. All the rest, Mr President, are reports of ideas, whether or not they mock anyone inconsistent, what I said is not familiar with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u53	Thank you too, Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Viliardos has the floor for five minutes from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I'm only gonna need two minutes. The Greek Solution has immediately been in favour of the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mr. Polakis. That, of course, doesn't mean that we have something against him, or that we believe in his guilt for everything he's accused of. It's not our business anyway. We just think we should all be equal to the law and to the Greek courts without anyone being excluded. If he now has files on other cases, as he claimed, he must make them public immediately by tabling them where they need to. Clearances are not acceptable to someone elected as a Member, let alone a minister. In this respect, we asked for Mr Kotzias to be investigated by the Greek courts on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement, that is, we wanted to investigate exactly what has happened, nothing more and nothing less, considering that it is our obligation to Greek citizens. Unfortunately, no one has supported our proposal, despite the fact that we have asked for it on several occasions, not even the Macedonian Members of the New Democracy who would have to do so and not go away with it, saying publicly that this is an infamous agreement, as Mr Vorides described it, but without doing absolutely anything to cancel it, and despite the fact that forty professors in their letter to the Prime Minister, published by Kathimerini, have confirmed that the agreement can and must be cancelled. Even worse, despite the fact that Skopje has already been violated many times, while these Macedonians - quite rightly - are ashamed to call Skopje "North Macedonia", as I personally found in a TV conversation with Mr Güleka. In conclusion, we will obviously vote in favour of the waiver of Mr Polakis' immunity, believing that he should also ask him if he wants to be truly respected by all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Spilios Lebanese, has last called for the floor. Please, Mr Levane, take the floor too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the move by SYRIZA, with the participation of Mr Tsipras himself, does not listen to the representative today and thus leave Parliament, shows the opinion of all of them on democracy itself. Before anything else and by replying to Mr Varoufakis, let us make this clear. Today we are not here to judge whether our colleague, Mr Paulakis, is innocent or guilty, but to decide whether or not to waive his immunity after the two procedural proceedings which were forwarded to Parliament by the competent prosecutors, Mr Varoufakis, three and a half months ago, not now. We didn't bring them. A case-file relates to the offences of slandering and extinction and another to the offence of Article 370a of the Criminal Code, namely the breach of the confidentiality of telephone communication. These are the issues we have to discuss today. So we must take this decision seriously, objectively and responsibly, without party purposes and micro-political benefits, because it is precisely this attitude that has made many of our fellow citizens no longer trust politics, and that is what we agree with. And that is exactly the attitude that the new Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has undertaken to change. Mr. Paulakis identified himself with Andreas Papandreou, with Konstantinos Mitsotakis and at the end of his speech he told us that he was very - very high. His charge is understandable, it is understandable that his need to apologise from this step to us, but above all to the Greek people. But everything that he told us is not going to be judged today. Open democracy is what we want out there, we can talk about it, we can look into it. However, there is no way that we would accept this current unacceptable behaviour of transforming the Step of the House into a step by the launch of mud and legally unscrupulous so-called scandals. He tried to make it rodeo to cover the substance. I should like to begin, for the substance of the matter now, on a subject that Mr Janakopoulos focused today and the committee yesterday, even though it has already been judged by a majority. Should Article 62 or Article 86 apply here? That's what Mr. Janakopoulos said. The answer is clear. The House is called upon to take a decision under Rule 62 on a request for the withdrawal of a Member and not in accordance with Article 86 on prosecution or not against a Minister, no matter how they request it, in the way they request it. Mr. Janakopoulos spoke of an opinion from the Scientific Council, Mr. Mavria. This is respected, indeed, but it is nothing but one view, when the case-law and theory referred to in Article 86 has to be interpreted closely. So the answer is clear to Mr Janakopoulos and to this point. I would like to mention four objective events that substantiate our position. Firstly, it is demonstrated by the way in which the proceedings have been forwarded to Parliament that these were sent by the appropriate prosecutors to the then Minister of Justice, Mr Kalogerou, and he, in turn, forwarded these motions to the then President of Parliament, under Article 62 of the Constitution. Both of these transmittals can be seen by all colleagues and they respond to what Mr Janakopoulos said before. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanese, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Secondly, in order not only to remain in technical matters, to read what Article 86 says: 'In criminal offences which have been committed in the performance of their duties'. But we are talking here - and we are all talking about it, apart from Mr Polakis himself - about a completely different case. What does the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers have to do with it? Is the illegal recording involved in the exercise of the Minister's duties, slandering, exaltation? I have seen several absences today from the parliamentary group and perhaps they disagree with that logic, those who were not here today. However, we certainly disagree with that logic of irrationality. Thirdly, the same people had brought an application for immunity against a former Minister for the offence of passive bribery in the case of 'NOVARTIS', in Article 62. So, in other words, they announce themselves, wanting to play them single - scalely, all theirs all the time. This is the old-fashioned attitude, which I spoke about before and which the Greek people strongly condemned. I put the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanese, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I have here a place for SYRIZA, which was expressed in the Constitutional Review, which they have hidden under the carpet and forgotten. This reads: "Since the special criminal treatment of ministerial offences is an exception to the common jurisdiction and as such it must be interpreted closely...", "...the scope of Article 86 falls only ministerial offences in the narrow sense of the term..." and continues. I think we all understand that there is just another one of SYRIZA's well-known assholes, where they use those that suit them and the other day, so they can just do their job. I should like to make another formal point, because I have noticed that Mr Janakopoulos - not Mr Paulakis - is very stuck in substance. It was said, therefore, that there has been an infringement of the Rules of Procedure since Rule 83 on a three-day subsidization period was not complied with. First of all, this issue has been decided, and most importantly, Mr Paulakis accepted the procedure, presented himself to the committee and certainly had all the comfort of expressing his views, without interruption and without any restriction on his time. In short, however, I should like to give an answer. This time-limit, which they are discussing, does not, in any event, imply nullity of the procedure if it is not complied with for more important reasons and, in addition, Rule 89(6) of the Rules of Procedure provides precisely for its abbreviation, after consultation with the President of Parliament, as was done. But the "jumi", now, is why this abbreviation has been made. For, if it had not been done, it would have been in the quarter within which the Constitution stipulates that the House has to give its opinion, otherwise the requested permission is not to be granted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] 'And why did we get to this border point?' He could ask the good-faithed man. Because the chairman of the then Committee on Ethics - I say again, then, not today - before the elections in SYRIZA. In short, SYRIZA as a government has blocked the procedures, then SYRIZA as an Opposition calls for it to be kept on three days so that what happens after all? Because that's their main objective. To pass the trimester and go the case of the dear Mr. Polakis to the file. If everything was done as they wanted, and as Mr Janakopoulos has explained in a heavy way, that would be the result. This whole "magia" would end up in the file. So we are really surprised to see that in a case that is actually clear, SYRIZA is forging behind drunkenness, when to go to the file, when to accuse his opponents and when to have more favourable procedures. And what did we see in this process, which, beyond all reasonable sense, would mean that SYRIZA, Mr. Tsipras, who was here today and Mr. Paulakis, should apply? The famous law on the responsibility of the ministers. Just last year they said that the New Democracy was supposed to be trying to escape from the Constitutional Review in order not to vote for the change of the law on the responsibility of Ministers. And now it is shouting that this does not apply exactly, as Mr Loverdos has quite rightly suggested, in the case of Mr Polakis. Watch one more thing now. Mr Paul Paulakis said: 'Chuddash provision' and 'The most dirty law that has been done so that no one is punished for anything'. Today he made all this and he comes and asks to be judged by this law. It is precisely this old-fashioned mentality that we have spoken about and was clearly condemned by the great majority of the Greek people. Take note again: 'The shameful Article 86', 'The notorious law on the responsibility of the ministers and Article 86 is the institutional guarantee of immunity and impunity'. He saw former Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. Today he came here, attended, and forgets all about it. He asks for this article to be followed in unconstitutional terms just to protect his favorite - as it turns out - partner. Of course, this is not the first time Mr. Tsipras has covered Mr. Polakis. It is not the first time that it is shown that Tsipras and Paulakis are identified, that they are the two sides of the same currency. Mr Tsipras did so, and when Mr Paulakis inadmissiblely offended the New Democracy MEP, then Stelios Kymbouropoulos. He did the same every time Mr. Paulakis crossed the line. It showed the authoritarianism and political arrogance condemned by the people. He was testing our democratic tolerances, even when he came to say "we must put some prisoners in order to win the election"! Never did Mr. Tsipras argue with him, never sprayed him for any of this, just like he didn't spray him because he was shooting him, holding double books, canceling contests like that. They're matched. It is the same and that is why today they have not even had the feeling of responsibility to sit down and watch the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Levane, you have to close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u58	Let me close, Mr. President. Let's not answer more. We are therefore aware, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not have any re-emphasism with all of this. We are dealing with them seriously and responsibly and with political culture. The two cases, which we are discussing today, are assumptions that justice has even passed to the House before we become a government, and we simply want and seek the proper application of the Constitution and the laws, with full respect for the presumption of innocence and, of course, the judgment of the Greek courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no right as President of this House to speak on the substance of the case. However, since this case does not concern the government, it concerns only the House and because the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Janakopoulos, left before he heard the representative, charged me with taking part in an unconstitutional management of the matter, I would like to explain for a very few minutes why this whole story has nothing to do with anything, on behalf of the House, the evil or the conspiracy or the appalling. It is a perfectly normal, simple institutional process, which, ladies and gentlemen, is set by two dates and two articles of the Constitution. The two articles of the Constitution, which oblig us to do this, are Article 20, which says that everyone is entitled to legal protection. So everyone is entitled to resign or sue anyone in this country. It's the elementary obligation that the state has to protect this right. And the other article of the Constitution, which brings us here today, is Article 62, which states the following simple thing. If three months have elapsed since the prosecutor submits to the secretariat of the President of Parliament a complaint or a complaint against a Member of Parliament and goes unreasonable - that is, the quarter - it is thought that the House rejected the request for prosecution. We as a parliament and not as a government, which has nothing to do with the matter, were persecuted for two dates, except for these two articles. What are these two dates? The first complaint against the alleged interception - and I stress in particular the 'behavioural' - is a alleged intercept, because, as I said, we are not a court here - was lodged with the Secretariat of the President of the Parliament on 27 March this year. The second lawsuit for exalting and slandering defamation came to the Secretariat on April 9th. If we did not move it, as was moved by the House and by the Ethics Committee, on Friday, on 2 August, it expired in the quarter, when, under the Constitution, it would be considered that Parliament decided in silence, by inactivating a case arising from Article 20 of the Constitution, that everyone is entitled to legal protection. Neither Mr Paulakis - I imagine - nor any of us want to be accused that, because of inertia, a case has been filed in need of examination. Why did we put it today and not tomorrow or tomorrow? We put it today, on the 31st day of the month, because we wanted to have a time of 'cushion' not to do so today, for reasons of force majeure, a postponement. So all dates, before today, the dates when the Ethics Committee was called, when the invitations were sent, were subject to protecting the three months, which had to be avoided by their expiration of placing the case in the file. Indeed, Mr Paulakis was invited to the Ethics Committee one day with a warning. On 24 July the Commission met. On July 23, he was invited. But on 23 July the Commission was set up. On 24 July, I was convened to make it possible to run the later dates and time limits so that - I repeat - we could save the quarter, which was the decisive one. All other dates are indicative. If it was over in the quarter, we could not see those who believe that the House should do everything in its power to respect the principle of legal protection. The House, before the elections, had two and a half months to bring it to an end, as the majority considered right and had more than two months for the other law. If, in other words, anyone were to adopt this House's so-called presence in a clear political persecution by Mr Polakis - which I firmly reject with regard to this House - one could also say, with the same logic, that the previous House, inactivating it, left him exposed and failed to resolve the matter, in accordance with the practice followed for other ministers. I do not, however, go into this debate, because it is deplorable and does not help to make progress. So this is not the government's story. It's neither persecution nor immortal warfare. It is up to the institutions and to protect Parliament's charm from any suspicion that Parliament, by inactivating it, is defending its members against a legitimate claim for protection. Finally, as far as the decision of the Ethics Committee is concerned, I have to tell you that this was not all critical, on which Mr Paulakis today was actually appreciated before the wrong hearing, but was whether the offences of phone intercourse or devotion were committed in the course of his ministerial duties. And it was considered not to be carried out in the exercise of ministerial duties. So, as the Minister of Justice sent, Mr Kallerou, and the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay sent the procedural documents under Article 62, so the Ethics Committee decided. Finally, I say: it is not every crime committed by someone who is acting as Minister, a protection-protected offence which gives him the most mortal, because of the overwhelming majority, calling for his revision, Article 86. The theory that what he commits is part of Article 86 is incorrect. Imagine, in other words, a minister to complain that he is committing the crime of neglecting child supervision. Does that belong to ministerial duties? The House, which is responsible for conducting this case, therefore acted by institutions. It's not about persecution. It is about the application of the Constitution and the laws. Finally, the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, who sends the case and speaks of the application of Article 86, sometimes for the purpose of applying Article 62, does so on the basis of a right conferred by the Rules of Procedure of the House, resulting from the following wording: ‘Article 83 of the Rules of Procedure: The request by the Prosecutor for the authorisation of criminal proceedings against a Member, after being examined by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay...’. So when the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay controls appeals or complaints - and that is in the new Rules of Procedure, he has not had that right in the past - and he tells us about Article 62, and we observe it again, and the Minister of Justice himself says Article 62, that this cannot, respecting this procedure, be charged to the House as allegedly innocuous persecution. That is what we are talking about, and let us go ahead with the process. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the name and assumptions of the colleague on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Each colleague will vote next to the name of the colleague for whom the waiver is requested. That colleague who is voting in favour takes note of his preference by the name of the Member and in the column 'NAH'. In other words, it says "HAI" to the prosecutor's request for the waiver. That colleague, who votes against the withdrawal, takes note of 'OTH' next to the Member's name and to the 'OTH' column respectively. The Member who votes for the 'PPROVAL' will note it in the respective ballot column. Each of his colleagues in the ballot will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs and will sign it, because the vote is roll-call in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. After completing his vote and by saying his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the vote to colleagues Lazaro Tsavdaridis from New Democracy and Apostolo Pana from the Change Movement, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the voting protocol in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u60	The House unanimously agreed. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament are invited on the list. Vasilios Yoyakas from New Democracy and Nadia Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u61	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from the honourable Member. On the first case of Mr Paul Pavlaki, concerning the violation of Article 370a(1) to (3) of the Criminal Code, a total of 176 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 163 MPs. On the question of immunity, 13 Members voted against it. "PARTS" none. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Register the Protocol on page 84 A and the Votes on page 84 B]] On the second case by Mr Paul Pavlaki, on the violation of Articles 363, 362 and 361 of the Criminal Code, a total of 176 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 162 Members voted. On the question of immunity, 13 Members voted against it. ‘PARON’ a Member of Parliament has voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-31-S1-commons.u64	It is with the consent of the House that the sitting is closed. End time 12.40 ́.
