ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Special Session of the House for the Memorandum of Memorial of the Greeks of the Sea. I would like to inform you that events took place throughout the whole territory yesterday on this sad anniversary and colleagues from the region attended the county and, in the absence of legislative work this week, they have not been back in Athens and that is why we are not too many people in the Chamber. At today's sitting, the Minister for Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Gavroglou, and then the fellow Members appointed by the Parliamentary Groups and an Independent MEP, will be present by the Bureau. On behalf of the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Mitsotakis will be speaking on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, who will, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, be speaking immediately after Minister Gavroglou. "Damn all the long things, and go speak, the eartows have slain silver with idleness." Damned the strangers where the voice doesn't go, my eyes are tanned from the nostalgia. On the occasion of this bitter dilemma, I would ask the House today to honour together the victims of yesterday's black anniversary. Yesterday a hundred years were completed by the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus, a hundred years of loneliness for us and our brothers who finally demand recognition and justice. Through a testament that began in 1914, peaks in 1919 and ends in 1923, the Hellenism of the Pontou was tortured, dishonored, slaughtered and finally rooted out of its natural space with hundreds of thousands of victims. At the same time, the landmark of the Genocide for our Hellenism in 1919 is celebrated in the neighboring country as a prank with badly-famous fanatics. May 19 is a supposed day of memory of Mustafa Kemal. With a move of provocative symbolism, Mr. Erdogan celebrated the anniversary in Samsonda, receiving a red festive flag of one thousand nineteen meters long, which they surrounded enthusiastic citizens last day on the streets of the city. Any one of us in the footage that were transmitted saw the image of this flag and did not roll over, has no heart, because, sweated from above, this flag looked like a bloody river, just like the one left behind by the Greeks of the Pontou. Sadly, such sad images and similar disgraceful figures will continue to be seen as long as we remain disobedient to our identity and history. It is this attitude that insults the souls and bones of our ancestors. Because it's rajadism. Ignorantness is sore. It is a prejudicial subjection to the demands of the mighty. And the envy is always followed by the nemesis through misery and disrepute, both within borders and on the global map. If we ourselves do not deal with history, don't expect anyone to do it on our behalf. So let today be not just an anniversary but an opportunity for collective action, a new start of struggle with wisdom, understanding and consensus. Because we must stand up and be proud of ourselves in the face of our history. We owe it to the generations that are gone and to the generations that are coming. The former Presidents of the Parliament, Mr Kaklamanis Apostolos and Mr Polydora Vyras, attend today's event. In addition, all the leaders of the Polish organizations and associations attend: Narozidou Maria, Gregoriadou Helen, Varthythiadis Georgios, Amorian Alexias, Theophilos Kotsidis, Kyriakos Tsilgeridis and, of course, the Chairman of the Scientific Council of the Parliament, Professor Kostas Mavrias. Before we begin the event, I invite you to keep a minute's silence in memory. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity! The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a day of memory today for the Greek Parliament, as established by Law 2193/1994. A hundred years after the Moles genocide, our task is to turn the tragedy into power through the sober reading of the past. As long as historical events are not clear, as long as this clarification is not made of many, the people who suffered and their offspring are not restless. These people do not seek revenge, seek recognition of an undeniable reality, namely the Pontius Genocide. And this recognition is a democratic request. It is for our neighbours to recognise a tragic historical event which no longer disputes. Because democracy, which presupposes the coexistence of diversity, cannot be established as long as silence replaces the calm valuation of the past and peaceful coexistence of countries and peoples is strengthened by such an evaluation of the past. In the Black Sea the Greek presence has been intense since antiquity, such as the testimony of the multitude of Greek cities, Greek colonies founded during the second Greek colony since the 8th century. In this area, an active and discreet presence of a population group closely linked to Hellenism was maintained during all historical periods. Economic growth and reforms in the Ottoman Empire since the mid-19th century have also brought changes in the region of the Pontou, with a more important contribution to the movement of Greek populations from the mountains to the coast, while a demographic increase has been observed. The consequences of this have been the important economic development, the Community organisation and the establishment of schools which have strengthened the national identity of the Greeks of the Pontou. On the acne of Pontian Hellenism at the beginning of the 20th century, the first clouds appeared with the development of Turkish nationalism, after the Youth Movement in 1908, the distrust between the different national and ethnic groups of the Empire, which will end up in oblivious hostility with the outbreak of World War I, and especially during the Greek-Turkish war. There have been absolutely indiscriminate attacks against the Pontians and massacres of populations. These attacks, which were aimed at the Genocide of the Pontius, led to the dissolution of communities and the forced departure of Pontius to Russia and Greece. In Greece they settled almost throughout the territory, but mainly in Macedonia. But very quickly - and so has other refugees - they have developed strong societal action. Reading the three volumes of "Exodus", published by the Centre for Asia Minor Studies in recent years and referring to the Pontian Hellenism, one draws valuable information on life in Pontus, peaceful coexistence with the Turks and Armenians, climate change after 1914, the persecutions suffered, resistance to the paramilitary groups of the nationalist Turks, such as the infamous Topal Osman, the organization of armed bodies, the exit from their homes, the difficult journey and their even more difficult arrival in Greece, with the forced quarantine of Keratsini and Macronis and Karabournos in Thessaloniki. The Pontius refugees transferred their special cultural identity to Greece, a product of a long stay at the birthplace. The special cultural identity of the Pontian refugees remained with variations, consciously or unconsciously, distinguished within the Greek society, even among other refugees from the Ottoman Empire, maintaining the historical continuity of this refugee group. The main feature of identity was the language, the Pontian dialect, orally until recently, either as an expression and communication or as a vehicle for transferring history and culture, but also the particular psycho-composition of the Pontius. Initially it was used exclusively among the Pontians on arrival in Greece. Then, through national homogenisation, with a dominant factor in school, it began limiting its use. Fortunately, over the past few decades, the Pontian dialect has reappeared mainly through efforts by third generation refugees not only to maintain it through art but also through organising learning courses, even using in daily communication with their children. Rehabilitation of refugees during the Middle War did not mean their automatic integration into Greek society. Although their Greekity was not questioned, the equal claim and performance of their position in Greek society was an area of competition with the natives. After the first mobilization to assist the homosexuals, the natives faced them with fear, suspicion, reluctance, protesting the changes that their presence has brought to the pace of their lives and the return of rights to them. In any case, the incorporation of these refugee populations into Greek society is seen as an incision to modern Greek history, the beginning of modern national life and the beginning of the formation of modern Greek identity. With refugees there is a number of developments in Greece: national homogenisation, mainly in sensitive areas, its demographic support, urbanisation, economic growth with main focus on primary sector, the modernisation of institutions and the introduction of young people, the exit of women into the labour market, with subsequent changes in the position of women in claiming their rights. What happened when the Pontius and the other refugees in Asia Minor arrived in Greece is also known. Aretsou in Thessaloniki, the Macronissos, Salamina and the quarantine places that have evolved in death for many of the refugees, the racism that encouraged conservative status in Greece against the Pontius, poverty, discrimination, hunting by the then nationalist forces, the refusal to accept Pontius as equal citizens, equal Greeks, the black pages of the 1920s and 1930s, and we must not forget that yesterday's racism against the Pontius can today be racist against others. This experience, with its negative and positive aspects, inherited the Greek society with the feeling that in the end this Hellenism of Asia Minor, Thrace and the Pontou survived. But it needs to be inherited from dealing with the phenomenon of refugee, a timeless phenomenon - inexhaustible today - a practice of coexistence with the other, the foreigner and the peaceful coexistence with our neighbours, without wars that produce the refugee phenomenon. A prerequisite for peaceful coexistence is, of course, the uptake of history without silence, without prejudice and without outrages. In 1994, the Greek Parliament recognised Genocide and voted for the declaration of 19 May as a day of remembrance for the genocide of the Greeks in the Asia Minor Pontum, while in 1998 the parliament voted unanimously to declare 14 September as a day of national memory of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish state. In school books on Pontian Hellenism there is a reference, either autonomously as it is in the F' Primary School, the Third High School and the Third High School, either in sections referring to the Hellenism of the Ottoman Empire or to the arrival of refugees in Greece. In the new Programme of History, the processing of which has been completed, there will be extensive reference to issues of ethnic cleansing and genocide, including those of the Pontian Genocide. The creation with the sponsorship of the Joint Benefit Foundation by Mr. Savvidis of the Centre for Pontian Research in Aristotle, as well as the transfer of the archive of the Centre for Study and Development of the Hellenic Black Sea Culture at the Central Library of the University of Thessaloniki, is undoubtedly a very positive development. The operation of this centre will seek to become organically integrated into the teaching and research activities of the University of Thessaloniki and the university will proceed with the procedures for the establishment of the university research centre, in which the Centre for Pontian Research will acquire a substantial scientific and research status. Today we are committed to the establishment of the Centre for Mode Studies, that is to say, to place teaching staff after consultation with the relevant scientists. Furthermore, the establishment of the Museum of Refugees has already begun to be planned in the refugee apartments of Alexandra Avenue, following the Government's initiative to rescue these multi-faceted buildings. As the Prime Minister pointed out in his message, such initiatives as the research centre and the creation of the museum will enhance the effort to study the language, culture, customs and traditions of the Greeks of the Pontus, and will make a significant contribution to maintaining the memory of their long history, a rich story that has contributed to the development of Greek culture, as well as a story full of pain for death and the uprooting of hundreds of thousands of people. But let us not forget something particularly important. Neither persecution nor discrimination nor hardship prevented these people, flesh from the flesh of Greece, from provoking uprooting conditions. The Pontius gave Hellenism a new momentum. Greece owes them much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u3	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory forty-three students and students and two fellow teachers from the private high school "George Zoe School". Welcome to Parliament on this important day! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the New Democracy and President of the Party's parliamentary group, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech I would like to condemn with all my strength the murderous attack by a young man yesterday in a commemoration of Pontian Hellenism in Thessaloniki. Today we remember one of the most traumatic events of modern Greek history, the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou, which sealed the lives of our nation. It was a cycle of blood and persecution which, however, became a sign of memory and a debt of action for the following generations and will be a national lighthouse for all of us. The Pontius of the Black Sea coast, for thousands of years, has been the far east end of the Greek world. They survived for centuries under foreign sovereignty and relative geographical isolation. They, however, kept their culture, language, genuine continuity of the ancient Greek, while in the people's soul of Pontou it was always alive, as in all parts of the enslaved Hellenism, the vision of rebirth and the spirit of optimism. Pontian Hellenism met, especially in the 19th century, a great economic bloom that led him to a significant cultural and educational rise. He liked the clearest meaning of the word. Its instructors, the first in the Bank of Greece, were bright centres of education in the wider region. The economic spurious, the spirit of progress, but above all the minds of the Pontius mobilised, financed and supported the rise of Greek education and Greek culture. This very creative mixture of economic and cultural dynamism was that allowed the Pontians to radiate far beyond their own limits. He did not want the Pontian Hellenism to turn against anyone. The right to his national existence has been relied upon. But it was targeted immediately after the Balkan Wars. He suffered from discrimination and extremism during World War I and experienced raw violence, extermination and uprooting in the terrible years from 1919 to 1922. The persecution of the Greeks of the Pontus is reflected in the hundreds of thousands who were lost and tortured and finally culminated in their horrific expulsion from their homes in conditions of real nightmare. This inhumane policy of asymmetrical violence suffered by the Polish Hellenism is one that raises the major issue of genocide, the recognition of which we now have a moral obligation on humanity. I feel the need for an event such as today, to stress that the Greek world at that time has always been the vehicle of an open-minded and liberal perception of the organization of human communities in the wider region. The leader of the nation, Eleftherios Venizelos, also presented this concept to the Conference of Peace and its design for the post-war era. Its aim has always been to survive the various communities and to respect their identity, either in the Great Greece of the two continents and the five seas that he created or outside its own borders. In this respect Greece was based on its policy and its leader was planning for the future of the Pontian Greeks. Hellenism always wanted to see a solution to cohabitation and democracy. He never sought ethnic cleansing. On the contrary, however, his persecutions were imposed. He was their victim with peaks in 1922, their victim in Pontus, their victim in Ionia, their victim in East Thrace and later. The tragedy, however, did not end with the destruction of 1922. Pontius like other Greek refugees from Asia Minor came to Greece after the disaster. There is no doubt and it would not be fair to hide it that they often accepted the distrust and sometimes even the hostility of the native Greeks. Refugee in Greece of the Messopolitan War was not only a humanitarian crisis. It was often an unjust and painful social marginalization case. It is a matter of national consistency for us today to remember it and pay tribute to our grandparents who have experienced the difficult times. In such a memory event, however, we should be able to widen our eyes and give the overall picture. Greece of the four million people destroyed and lost itself, then accepted about three hundred thousand poor refugees. Their rehabilitation seemed impossible, but eventually through a collective over-representation and also with the help of international organisations, the country managed to restore them and integrate them into its society. Let me reiterate the inspired leadership of Eleftherios Venizelos in the years 1928 to 1932. Let me also express an opinion that many historians today share that the integration of refugees into the trunk of Greek society during the Messopolitan War has been one of the greatest successes of the modern Greek state during the two hundred years of its existence. This success was not only part of the state. In Greece, the 1922 refugees, among themselves, and the Pontius, have brought all their strength, creativity and the spirit of progress they have always had. They contributed to her economy, raised her cultural level. They defended it armedly with the other Greeks when they attacked fascism. In short, Pontius as a chosen part of Hellenism honoured the country in every way and continue to do so, keeping alive and developing their tradition everywhere in the world, not forgetting their roots and fairness with which the New Democracy is associated, but also proudly taking the lead in every patriotic struggle. We are next to them and participate fully in the Memory and Honorary Day in Pontian Hellenism, for this is how we honor the Greek nation itself. But this tax due is not exhausted in the anniversaries, nor yet in the most inspired reasons. The tax due shall take full meaning and content of it, when specific action is taken with heart and slogan. And this action is no more than a well-designed, multi-level projection and promotion of efforts to internationally recognize the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou. The start must be made and it will be made in the most democratic institution in the European Parliament. It is my commitment that the Group of the European People's Party will undertake immediately after the election of the well-prepared initiatives to promote this national task at European level. Such action will also be taken by our parliamentarians in the Council of Europe, the most appropriate institution for defending human rights. And today I can announce that the New Democracy has already raised this issue at the highest level in the United Nations. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is personal, paradoxical, I dare say national duty, continue and intensify these efforts. And this debt, this national duty, will not be suspended as much as some until yesterday, insist on an unscrupulous refusal of the tragic events that have stained the history of that time. The recognition of historical reality would also be a brave, liberating act for our neighbours. I am sorry that they are still trapped in a distorted and deformed reading of history. We will do our duty as a minimum tribute to those who have been lost, keeping their homeland, keeping Greece in their hearts until their last breath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory of fifty-eight students and students and three teachers attending the 7th Kifisias Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] MEP I Thessaloniki has the floor of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexandros Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, invited representatives of the Pontius, the reason for the outrage, the reason for the refugee situation, the verbs escaped, the feelings of army inexperienced, the time of nostalgic hostage. Javrum, grandpa bucket, father, memory, and root. Our dream light, Pontou irritation, wounded open voluntarily, unclean fate, memory of brooders. A hundred years after the beginning of the second and most murderous phase of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism. Twenty-five years after the unanimous decision of the Greek Parliament to recognize it, a crack in oblivion. Our history wants united, to participate in the offer competition for the country and not in the downfall competition of the country that unites us. Can we be united with our historical truth guide and router? Do we want to be united with common denominators of action, democracy, justice and national interest? On 19 May 1919 Mustafa Kemal Pasha was deported to Samsunda, Pontus. He is designated by the central Ottoman government and is forming its nationalist troops. Seventy-five years of oblivion and silence by the official Greek state. The memory of the uproot remained seventy-five years in the backyard of the national agenda. On 24 February 1994 the President-in-Office of the Parliament of the Panagiotis Kritikos noted in his conclusion: "So the proposal for a law of jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior, 19 May, was introduced as a day of remembrance of the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou, was accepted in a single debate, in principle, in article and in the whole unanimously.' The memorable decision of the Hellenic Parliament of 1994 was the result of the small circle of enlightened historical Pontian origin since the 1980s, which broke the silence and brought the issue to the forefront of the legislative initiative of twenty-two MPs who signed the proposal of law and the political will of the memorable Andrew Papandreou, who accepted their request that the process of fulfilling the historic debt of the Greek state be started, to recommend to the Greek society that it be able to recognize Genocide and the uprooting of the Greeks of the East as a catalyst of our national course. Historical sources will reveal the substantiated responsibilities and guilt of the Greek state, the government of Protopadaki, which left Hellenism helpless in the worshiped land of Pontus, Ionia, Capadacia, Constantinople and East Thrace, as well as the disinfections - Kalamaria. Instead of a paternal hug, the Greek state reserved disinfection and quarantine for Pontius refugees. The declaration of memory and the building of a monument there in Karabournos, Kalamaria, Aretsou, at the point of landing and temporary installation of thousands of refugees from the unforgettable homelands announced by Alexis Tsipras from Thessaloniki, for the first time the Greek Prime Minister, the stay of the hundred-year anniversary, addressing the administrative councils and three federations of Pontian Hellenism, in order to redeem the souls of twenty-two thousand Pontians of Asia Minor refugees, buried with lime and soil without cross and name. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS MAUROTAS]] On the contrary, the Pontius are grateful for the simple Greek people and the Church that supported us. We will never forget who embraced us, who protected us, who helped us in the difficult years, following the poet's instigation, because people have been there since they find a place in the lives of others or a death for the lives of others. We're no longer talking about genocide. Turkish historians recognize and speak of Genocide in Pontto. On the eve of the newspaper "Electronicity in the East" by the diligence of historian Vlassi Agjidis, fourteen Turkish historians, such as Tanner Aksham, Fuat Dudtar, Ali Said Gentinoglou, speak of the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou, speak of the expulsions and massacres and the rehearsal of the Armenian genocide. They talk, as Dogan Coastal does, which says that pain wouldn't be less if they weren't talking about genocide. They'll complete the planned genocide with an inspiring and co-ordinator of the Nazis the German Colonel Otto Liman Von Sanders. Sanders proposed exterminating nazi conditions in the new Turkish and assured them that for security reasons the removal from the coast of Greeks and other Christian peoples is imperative. His suggestion was: "The ice and winter cold, the diseases and hardships and the ascity will bring the same result as you, with your own plan, that you clean them with slaughter. With the system that I'm proposing to you, their death is certain," Von Sanders told the new Turks. Those who committed the Pontian Genocide have the same ideology as Hitler's children. Historian Stefan Iring in his book entitled 'Atatürk in the Nazi Imagination' explains and fully understands why today the Hungarian extreme right marks her historic heritage ideologically, doing what? Setting up all the busts of Mustafa Kemal. He was the one who completed the genocide of non-Muslim populations of the Ottoman Empire of Greeks, Armenians, Assyroldai, who had begun in 1914. At a party meeting in 1927 Adolf Hitler himself begged the Greeks and Armenians of the Ottoman Empire with the Jews, saying: “They have those specific shameful traits we condemn the Jews.” In this book itself, Heinrich Himmler's reference to a letter sent to his Chinese Turkish friend in 1921 is characteristic. Himmler writes to him: 'I seek Turkish solutions to the German problem'. The German problem was the existence of minorities that had to be destroyed and the Turkish solutions were SS, Auschwitz and the hangars. They wanted to get us out of history. The Pontian Hellenism remained standing and proud, unrepentantly stubborn, a fighter and a foretaste. However, even today our recurring Pontius brothers, the Greek Pontius from the former Soviet Union, not the Russians, not the guests, are on the lips: "In foreigners I am Greek and in Greece I am foreigners." Today we don't weep. We're not doing a memorial. We iron the country with coolness and determination to deal with every foreign challenge, as we have always done, from locusts and from the Disciplinary, to this day, we Pontius. The right to memory was acquired, not the memory of a memorial, but the memory of vigilance, the memory of the active creative forces of the nation. We heard Mr. Erdogan yesterday. We are sending out a message to the perpetrator, Turkey, to change his way, to abandon the challenges and to recognise the multiple crime of genocide against the Christian peoples of the East, Greeks, Armenians and Assyrians themselves. Through the redemption of an apology from Turkey for the crime of genocide, we will be able to design and establish sincere and honest relations in the worshiped land of the Pontus, as Omer Assan describes them and describes them in his book "Pontos Kultu", "Culture of the Pontou", so that Greeks, Armenians, Jews and Turks can fish on the same seas, water and sowing the same balls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. Parliamentary Karditsa and Secretary-General of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Constantine Tsiara, now speaks for seven minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Turkish systematic extermination of the Polish Hellenism and the other Christian populations of the Ottoman Empire from their historic homeland, the territory that is today's Turkey, can be defined by just one word: Genocide. The victims of the Pontian Genocide include people killed in local massacres, but others who died during deportations under conditions of famine, dehydration, exposure and disease. It includes even those who lost their lives in exile and the death battalions in the desert areas in the southern part of the Empire. It includes all those who did not find the land of the promise in the fragmented Greece of the Middle War, but began their own wandering in the land of Caucasus, where other misery and new suffering awaited them. The Greeks of Pontou, the critics of Byzantium, although they were scattered after the uprooting of their thousands of years of age, from the steppes of Kazakhstan to the blue waters of the Ionian Sea, never forgot their land, their historical valley, Pontus and Banking, the plows of the highlands and its main mountains, their history and their culture, which traveled around the world. In the years that the survivors and their descendants have struggled to gain official recognition for the genocide of their people. And when the horrific events are revealed, you can no longer be forgotten, you cannot ask for the historical justice of the victims, you cannot seek the apology of those responsible. It is historically and morally inappropriate to focus on legal details that plunge the concussion on the context within which a mass murder took place. And any speculation about the motives of the victims against the victims or the size of the disaster is heard as cheap, offensive to their memory. The attempt, therefore, to deny the historical reality of the Pontius Genocide goes beyond historical events, leaving an open wound to the thousands of victims and their relatives and distracting them from the role of the neighbouring country, Turkey, in their committing. Ladies and gentlemen, the refusal of a genocide is, in fact, its last stage, because it affects the victims, makes them nonexistent and ultimately condemns them to oblivion. "Even the dead will not be safe from the enemy, if he wins," German philosopher Valer Benyamin once wrote, after the first anti-Semitism pogroms of the 3rd Reich Nazis. Because at the birth of a state - you know how it is - there are only the glorious and inclusive moments of the battlefield, victory or even heroic sacrifice. The historical memory of the states is not usually the place of barbarism and suffering at the expense of the civilians and all those who must sacrifice and prescribe for the prosperity, stability and uniformity of a 'clean' nation - state. It is known that each nation feels its own pain and finds it difficult to feel the same for others. However, the reconciliation of the peoples who are willing to live next to each other in peace will require both acceptance of their common history and the acceptance of their historical differences with a tough, honest look in the past. There are examples of simple recognition and public repentance. It is well known that, after the holocaust, a democratic Germany recognised what the Nazis had done. The history of fascist atrocities - you know - is now being taught in schools and is being mentioned throughout Germany and this painful conflict between German society and its own nazi past is a guarantee that such dark times will not happen again. Because everyone knows now. Everyone knows now. The refusal, therefore, not only perpetuates the injuries of past genocide over time, but is also a horrifying sign that new ones can happen in the past. It takes a great and brave moral exaggeration of the anger of a people to accept their mistakes, to reconcile them with which their dark past is dark. And Turkey's recognition of who set fire and hit civilian populations is part of its own healing historical endoscopy. And the message, ladies and gentlemen, that we must send here today from the Step forward of the Greek Parliament, on the occasion of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism, is only that: Governments and peoples who fail to accept and face the harsh consequences of their historic truth, do nothing but give vital space to the supranational and anti-democratic forces, which are threatening - and we all know it - freedom and democracy in any country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chiara. The speech is made by MP Heraklion and Secretary of the Democratic Integration Parliamentary Group, Vassilis Kegeroglou for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u10	Today, on 19 May, we honour the memory of the appalling genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus. It is a day of respect and honor to the dead, to the tortured, but also to the uprooted refugees from their ancestral homes, Greeks and Christians, victims of the barbaric plan of the new Turkish and kemalists, the organized Turkish state, who was unable to erase culture, spirit, ideals and memory. We do not cultivate hatred with neighbouring peoples and we do not adopt unfaithful views and passions. But we have a debt, we don't forget. We do not forget the millions of innocent civilian victims of the then Ottoman Empire, due to the different origins and religion, including hundreds of thousands of Greeks of Pontus. We do not forget the great effort of the long-standing Greece and the exhausted society to integrate the Pontius, but also all the refugees in society and embrace them. We must serve truth and justice through the full restoration of historical truth. On 19 May it was established by the Greek Parliament as a day of remembrance of the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou with a unanimous vote of the relevant law in 1994 at the initiative of PASOK and then Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou. But today we have to follow up with another big step. Apart from safeguarding national memory, we must spread the truth about the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou to claim its international recognition. The purpose is in no way to perpetuate passions, but to fulfil our obligations to the victims and to create conditions for such practices never to be repeated. The Change Movement is taking initiatives to achieve this international recognition of the Pontian Genocide, starting from the European Union with national understanding and coordination of all and, of course, continuing as Greece to the United Nations, not as parties. That is why our President Fofi Gennimata has tabled a proposal to the President of the Greek Parliament for the creation of a Special Committee of the Parliament on the systematic study and promotion of the Pontius Genocide as an undeniable historical event with international radiation. Expert scientists and representatives of the Polish organisations should be invited to the committee and anyone else deemed to be able to contribute to this effort. However, the representatives of the Pontian organisations must also ensure that organisations are not involved in party competition. Our aim must be to internationalise the Genocide of Hellenism of the Sea. It is our obligation to contribute methodically and consistently to this objective because we owe it to our principles and values, but above all to all proud Pontian Hellenism. This initiative at a time which is unfortunately characterised by the outbreak of extreme xenophobia, hatred and populism in Europe, but also in other parts of the world, aims to preserve and highlight the historical memory and historical truth, to the opposite of the extreme voices and populist pursuits, with the aim of preventing similar phenomena in the future in an international environment free of any form of intolerance that inherited us from the distant but not forgotten past. The future can be built with respect for the universal values, freedom and democracy only if it is based on historical truth. I would like, in order to present, in the Minutes of the House, the proposal put forward on Friday to the President of the Greek Parliament for the creation of the Special Committee in the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. MEP Pellas of the People's League Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Sahinides, speaks for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I want to welcome our guests, the representatives of the Pontian Associations. No matter how many years we've lived, we'll learn stories, narrations, events that we didn't know about. Most of us know about the basic events associated with the uprooting and genocide of the Pontius. Two days ago I was lucky in the city I came from, and we had our own monument to the Pontian Genocide. On this, though, I felt really lucky was about the narrative of the well-known bourgeoisie actor Takis Bambakis about the slaughter of infants in Santa. Those who refuse the Molecular Genocide are good to sit and watch through the Internet and through the events of the Pontians. 1919-2019, an entire century of struggles without justice. A hundred years of struggles from many, hundreds of years of indifference, indifference, indifference and betrayal by others, but always on the back of Pontian and Asia Minor Hellenism, as if it did not spend a single day. Four generations and we go for the fifth generation that grew up with the stories, the narrations, the ears of the pontian lyra, the balance of genocide, the massacres, rapes, plundering and exile from the mouth of our grandparents, gorillas and our pre-parents. So the accounting of all these has remained deeply engraved in the heart, mind and soul of all the generations I mentioned before. The desire to visit and return to the ancestral homes undetermined. The customs and customs of Pontian Hellenism live today as they have ever been, thanks naturally to the people of the arts and letters, thanks to the living cells of Pontian Hellenism throughout the territory, the mouse and cultural clubs. Systemically, however, as often as reference is made to the Pontian Genocide two pieces. One is with the working battalions, not in southern Turkey, but where thousands of Pontius died in the then Soviet Union and a second systematically avoided by all, zero-free, is for the twenty-thousand Pontius rebels who were asking to take part in the Asia Minor Campaign and unfortunately the Greek state did not want to create a second front in order to ensure the liberation of all Greek territories. So the struggle to internationalize the Pontian issue, that of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism, must be for us Pontian purposes of life. And not only for the Pontius, because the danger from the East every day passes gigantic. The Turk, which the Greek governments have repeatedly approached incorrectly, bearing in mind the Greek Turkish friendship, which is always applied unilaterally, unfortunately, and perhaps sometimes on the part of the Greek Government, I would say, and slavely, that it has awakened the Mongols' mountains in our day. Their reference to "blue homeland" is not at all accidental, as is their most fragile move for drilling within the Cypriot EEZ, the ongoing challenges with NAVTEX commitments for the exercises of the Turkish fleet and the daily violations of Greek FIR airspace. That was reasonable at some point we would 'wash' them, since the Prime Minister himself said that there were no sea borders. Greek-Turkish friendship, then, with whom? He was also heard by previous speakers about the statement yesterday in Samsonda, Pasha Erdogan: "We accept no shame in the Pontius, the Genocide took place against us." Unfortunately, today there are Greeks who would tell us to apologize. I mean, they owed us, and we're going out in debt. And do not listen to the fairy tale 'what is the Turkish people to blame?' Don't listen to that story. Slaughters, rapes, pillaging with the 1955 killers in Constantinople, with Attila in 1974. Today the descendants of Topal Osman's pockets. Are we going to be able to make Greek-Turkish friendship with them? But of course the Turkish people took part in all of this. Of course. Because there are too many testimonies to be involved in all these disgraceful things that I mentioned in good Turkish neighbors. But it seems nowadays that we continue to be the same ones. Those who are of the bourgeois origin understand very well what that means. Many believe that, because as a mouse race, we have the courage to sacrifice ourselves with the jokes we make, that we are also naive. This year we had the unfortunate thing to do with the hundred years of memory of the Pontian Genocide in the pre-election period. And my mind, as well as my soul, regrettably, felt the politicians of all kinds raped. I don't know, but maybe these uneducated people think we Pontius, as I mentioned before, naive. I'm angry. I am very angry by seeing and hearing them all say that they are next to the Pontius for the internationalisation of the Pontian issue of Genocide. Who? The supporters of globalisation? So I looked to find and remember what has been said both within Parliament and also by party officials, about how they perceive and how they see the Pontian Genocide. And we'll have a little taste. I shall conclude, Mr President, I shall not be delayed. I would very much like to believe in the speech by the Secretary of the Communist Party two days ago, on Saturday, which said: "We are honouring today the hundredth anniversary of the Greek genocide of the Pontius and we are committed to standing next to the organized Pontian space for the international recognition of the genocide of the Greek Pontians." I'd really like to believe him. Unfortunately, however, 12 July 1935 had declared with the then Secretary of State Zachariadis: "That is why we did not only regret the defeat in Asia Minor, but also sought it." I will submit everything for the Minutes, because today what we say is recorded and will have the history of the future. We continue with the New Democracy. Tatsopoulos: "If I say to you, "all Greeks from Asia Minor have been extinguished", there is a territorial definition and we are talking about ethnic cleansing, as has happened in our day at the Bosnian slaughterhouse. If I say to you, “he has wiped out all the Jews on the face of the earth,” there is no territorial determination and we are talking about genocide. Just stuff. No one denies that in both cases we are talking about mass massacres." I guess no one had said what the term 'genocide' legally means and what 'national cleansing' means. Rejoice him, gentlemen of the New Democracy. We continue with your candidate for the European elections Mr.Cavidis, Professor of International and European Policy of the Panteion University and candidate for the New Democracy, who, in a lecture on "Greece in the world - Myths and truths" had said: "We are Ottoman children". Your right to be whatever you want, but you don't have the right to talk about what today's Pontius descendants are. But it tells us directly that the Pontian Genocide is a myth, which, indirectly but clearly, has also tried to cover it with statements of the same kind. But that's not true, because everything's in the register. "The myth that we have been victims of ethnic cleansing, genocide and generally there is an increase in genocide and genocide...." I mean, we Pontius are genocide. Well, enjoy him, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Continuing, let's go to Mr. Phile, the former Minister of Education. I was privileged to be one of the three Pontian - Asia Minor Members of the Golden Dawn that I had sued the then Minister of Education for the denial of Genocide. The lawsuit was filed at the Arena Ice. When several months later we looked to see with the lawyer what is going on with this lawsuit, they told us he had been sent to Parliament. The file's gone. I'm going to testify this for the Minutes too. We're on. I come in 2014 and in the debate on the anti-racist law, also about the Pontian Genocide. What Catrivanu, Gerovasili, Repusi, said is too much. I can't report them. I'll testify to the Minutes so you can see them. Repussi tried to patch them sometime, too. He said: "Greek refugees from Turkey...", notice, did not even bother saying "Point" or "Small Asia", he says "from Turkey", "...no harm was done. There were a lot of people on the coast. A lot of people are gathered. They didn't fit. It was a crowd of people. We can see it, live it and elsewhere." Of course, he didn't stop there with these. He continued, at some point, on May 30, 2013, which said that Zaloggo's dance is a myth. This unspeakable was proposed by the current government of SYRIZA. Fortunately, he refused to be a candidate. And I continue with a Prime Minister, George Tsipras, who recently, a few months ago, at the 4th Financial Forum in Delphi, asked him a question about the status of the official SYRIZA for the Pontian Genocide. We've been flirted with the Pontius in our lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u13	Finish this, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President. "Our position is in favour of the recognition of the Moles genocide, as was clearly expressed in the recent vote in the European Parliament. The Eurogroup on the Left, in which the SYRIZA MEPs are also involved, voted for the resolution, which was voted against by other Eurogroups.’ He lied, too, as Mr. Tsipras lied to the President before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u15	No, in the European Parliament it was voted differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u16	They have the courage to talk about internationalisation, and out of the twenty-one MEPs they voted in favour of it only seven. They knew 10 days before that a vote was coming from the Independent MEP...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u17	Unfortunately, you're off the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u18	The names are here. Kuneva voted for it by SYRIZA. Papadimoulis and Culloglu did not vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u19	No place he took.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u20	You can take the floor later. No MEP, New Democracy MEP, voted for it. Nobody from PASOK, Elia, did not vote for it. No one from the river voted for it. One of the Communist Party, Papadakis Costas, two of the Golden Dawn and three of the Independent MPs voted. He was twenty-one MEPs and voted in favour of the recognition of the Pontius Genocide only seven. I'll testify to that in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u21	Finish, Mr. Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u22	I shall close, Mr President, by addressing our guests. With them, dear Tradelles, will we fight for our fairness in Europe and the rest of the world? Are we going to fight for honor and memory? How will the souls of the three hundred and fifty - two thousand remain unwise? How are we going to light candles on our parents and grandparents? What kind of face are we going with? Just remember this: we have a duty on our ancestors and our children not to forget and honor. I would also like to make a warm request to this House. And I am closing with that, Mr President: if you are going to help the mouse issue as you have done with Macedonia, please leave us in our pain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u23	You're a foreign body with what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u24	It's you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Shahinides. Members of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Christos Katsotis, speak for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. We are honored today, as every year, to the memory of those who have been lost in the terrible genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus. We are honoured, but we are taught of the circumstances and the causes that led to this disaster a hundred years ago. We are considering those tragic events, not typically, anniversary, museums, but, in fact, joining their history, the political and social context in which they took place and interpret them from the point of view of the workers, the people's interests, so that younger generations of the Pontius can know and learn from them and the whole of youth. This is also a contribution to the battle against historical oblivion, against all those who are trying to make us forget who we are, where we come from and where we have to go. Considering the historical context of that time, one finds, of course, differences with today, but also many proportions. Imperialism in the early 20th century, a young, but unfaithful since then for the markets, led mankind to World War I. At the same time, and in conditions of prolonged decomposition of the Ottoman Empire, the national urban states of the Turks, the Arabs and the Armenians in the Near East, as well as the Southern Slavs in the Balkans, were formed and developed. The historical mixture then was explosive to the peoples of the region and was even more dangerous because of the choice of the Turkish bourgeoisie to progress violently in the process of forming its own nation - state. Thus, the Greeks of Pontou had the Turkish bourgeoisie toward them, which, with the general blood flow, sought to deport before all the competitive capital for it. In that the Turkish bourgeoisie class was, of course, not the exception to the rule, but the rule. Everywhere little - the bourgeois ranks formed the nations - through their own nations through massacres, ethnic cleansings of smaller peoples, violent displacement of entire populations. In his view, however, the Pontian people have unfortunately, as it proved - and that was not very clear about this - and the Greek bourgeoisie, which, with its political staff at the time, ruthlessly used Pontius as a diversion to its pursuits in Asia Minor, which were clearly more profitable to her and as a means of pressure on her own competitive interests, but leaving them at the last crucial moment in their chance. And those who paid her once again were mainly poverty and the people. And when the drama of the Pontian people reached its peak, what did our international allies do with their cranivors and embassies to save them? Absolutely nothing. In contrast, the young Soviet power, for which so much anti-communist poison has been spilled since then, in order to cover the real causes and responsible of genocide, has prompted it to help as it could. It is no coincidence that Metropolitan Banking Chrysanthos himself wrote about "the atheist communists appeared more Christians than Christian English". This was then written by Metropolitan Chrysanthos. In this historical and geographical context, the planned persecutions of national minorities and, of course, the Greek population, as well as other populations, took place in Thrace and Asia Minor. Did these competitions in the urban classes, such as the Greek and Turkish and other powerful in the region today stop today? Not at all. We all see that our region, the Southeastern Mediterranean, is becoming the field of competition and the conflicts of many urban classes with the outbreaks of war devastated countries such as Syria, while peoples are being murdered, such as the state-killer of Israel. And today, like then, the refugee caravans are moving for their long and dangerous journey. And today, like then, their living conditions are terrible. And today, like then, refugees have patriots with patriots, nationalist fascists and Nazis. They are the same who then called the Turk seed refugees who called for the purification of the cities by their unpurpose presence, organizing pogroms in their settlements. And here the Pontius organizations and organizations must not give them any forgiveness or room to drop their poison, because the Pontius lived the refugee on their own flank. A real disguise of the refugees was then the JRC, who took the lead in their struggles and claims, fighting their tactics and divided and ruled the bourgeois order. Since then, the Communist Party has forged deep and strong ties with the refugee element, which have been captured and continue to be reflected in every struggle of the people. "Greek is not divided between locals and refugees," Rizzospastis wrote on 7-9-1929. "Greece is divided into rich and poor, into people who don't work and live and live in people who are working all the time and who can't live. Everyone must choose between the rich refugee, combined with the rich locality, and the poor refugee, who will have the poor local worker or farmer." That's what Rizopasti wrote in 1929. Today, like then, imperialist antagonisms pose deadly dangers to the peoples, which only the people themselves can escape with their struggle. In closing, we want to say once again that the JRC was and is a supporter of the organized mouse movement in every fair claim. The JRC is always on the side of thousands of expatriates from the Soviet Union, who are still facing serious problems. We continue with you to claim from the Greek state the support and promotion of the cultural and intellectual heritage and activity of the Pontius from all generations. We continue everywhere to support the international recognition of the genocide of Pontian Hellenism. We will always remember and always honor the Pontius and the Pontius, who have even given their lives for their high ideals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki of the Potamian Parliamentary Group, Mr Nikolaos Nyfoudis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Year 1461: After the dissolution of the Byzantine Empire a selective part of Hellenism lives in the region of Pontou. Although they live cut off the national cord and form a minority, they quickly manage to dominate the economic life of the region, they magnify and develop economic, demographic and spiritually. They set up a thousand four hundred schools, including the famous Banking Center, churches, theatres, newspapers, which proves their high spirituality. Year 1908: Timely landmark for the Ottoman Empire. The New Turks movement prevails and makes the sultan side of the sultan. Very soon the new regime reveals its hard, nationalistic face, putting the region's extremism project into practice. And this is how the radical extermination of Greek Christians begins now. The Turks, under the pretext of state security, are deporting a large part of the Greek population in the inhospitable inland. Men are killed in the notorious "blue taboo", the well-known work classes, in which they are forced to work under inhuman conditions, with the sole aim of eliminating them from hunger, hardship and illness, while women and children are murdered under the process of "white death", that is, forced and violent, endless deaths to the inland. We arrive in 1919. On 19 May 1919 it dawns a cursed day for Pontian Hellenism. It is the day Mustafa Kemal is deported to Samsonda to allegedly peace the area, but in reality he is disembarked to complete the plan of the extinction of the Greek element in Pontto. It thus begins the second and most ferocious phase of the Pontian Genocide with the slogan "Turkey in Turks". The Greek populations are not just killed with knives and guns. They die after terrible suffering, unprecedented in human history. The atrocities and barbarity of the Turks are unspeakable and unsympathetic to the human mind. Whole towns were burned, young men, old people were slaughtered, women were dishonest, children were murdered. Many of the testimony of the time that reveal atrocity. It is characteristic that the speech extract is a Member from the seat of the Greek Parliament. On April 8, 1921, he mentions attributes "The tigers and the old men were then scattered in the deserts, where naked, homeless, and savage, were killed. An unfortunate mother, stirred with other women on a wagon, seeing the danger of her child being suffocated, dared to seek help. Paradoxically, the Turkish countryguard, taking out of the gallow of the mother, her child, slew it out of the window into the void, while the train went on to the vast wilderness." Such descriptions are made in parliaments of foreign states. British Prime Minister George Lloyd, in his public statements in the House of Commons, states: “...the tens of thousands of Greeks - men, women and children - were deported and dying. It was a clean, deliberate extermination. ‘Scrumb’, he said attributes, ‘it is not my word. It is the word used by the American mission." American Major Yowell carries the image of the Asia Minor Sea in 1921. It states: "Feeds, bodies throughout the course of the displaced persons. Horror and corpses". Three hundred and fifty-three thousand Greek souls were murdered. Everything that didn't succeed in a sultan in five centuries, Kemal did it in five years. He wiped out the Hellenism of the Pontus, implementing a horrific plan of genocide. Genocide, therefore, and not crime against humanity or war crime. Genocide: Primary crime committed through methodical extermination, total or partial, of a national, racial or religious group. Because the genocide does not exterminate a group for something it has done, but for something that is also in the case of the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus, our ancestors were slaughtered because they were Greeks and Christians. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament recognized the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou, just in 1994, at the recommendation of the then Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou. He voted unanimously to declare 19 May as the Memorial Day for the Genocide of the Greeks in the Asia Minor Pond. Apart from the Greek state, however, the persecution of the Pontius is officially recognised as genocide by other countries, but unfortunately, even without international recognition, even though the International Association of Genocide Studyers officially recognised it in 2007. And we come to today, a hundred years after 19 May 1919. What have we, as a Greek state, done as a Greek Parliament for the memory of the Greeks of the Pontou? The international recognition of the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus must be an objective that all governments should aim for priority, because it is not just a matter of remembrance. Recognizing history, its acceptance, our reconciliation with the past is essential so that we can move safely into the future. Because denial of a genocide is the last stage of genocide, which ensures impunity for its perpetrators and prepares the ground for future genocide. It is our national duty, therefore, to do everything possible for the international recognition of the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus, for the international recognition of the crime of genocide and for its condemnation, as was done with the holocaust of the Jews and the Armenian genocide. Our national duty, as recognition and vindication of the Greeks of the Pontou who survived and fought hard to salvage everything they could. And when the end came, they took the way of refugee, uprooted from their homes, with their unique luggage and inheritance their memories and the pain of their hearts. They settled in Greece, but mainly in regions of Macedonia and Thrace, strengthening their Greekity, where, although they were mocked by the native population and remained helpless by the Greek state, with the elements that characterize them, their workability, their pride and their persistence, they managed not only to integrate themselves into the Greek society, but also to advance and distinguish themselves, helping to restore the modern Greek state, where they did miracles, such as the Pontius refugees who arrived first in Thessaloniki and settled in Oraiokastro, Panorama, then still deserted and watery areas, which, with labor and much work, turned into the most beautiful suburbs of Thessaloniki, but also into the coastal and licensed area of Kalamaria, then full of mudlands and handed over to the most beautiful areas of Thessaloniki. Personal debt, therefore, to all of us of the Members who represent the entire Greeks, the international recognition of the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus, and if we do not do it as a moral reward for the descendants of the Greeks of the Black Sea, if we do not do it for the preservation of our national memory and the preservation of our history, let us do it as a minimum tribute to the dead, as a minimum tribute to the memory of the three hundred and three thousand born ancestors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Nyfoudis. The floor is now given by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP of the First Athens District of the Parliamentary Group of the Union of Centres Mr Marios Georgiadis for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a hundred years ago, a national memory of the Genocide of the Pontians was completed, a hundred years after Kemal was disembarked into the martyrdom of Axe and completed the crime plan of the New Turks, which was no more than the extermination of the Christian populations of Anatolia. It has been a hundred years since the free mouse spirit, fear and terror in Kemal's plans against the entire Greek Army on the front of Asia Minor, drowned in blood and the lamentation. A hundred years have passed since the Genocide suffered three hundred and fifty - three thousand Greeks, who continued for so many others with their uprooting from their homeland Greeks of the Pontus. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from the side of my mother Anastasia Mendesidou from the Bank of the Testament and I am directly linked to the pain and blood of the historic Pontou. No matter how many years it passes, the memories don't fade. We Pontius do not forget the uprooting of our ancestors. We don't forget that they were tortured and the hardships they experienced. We don't forget and we haven't stopped mourning our dead. That's how we grew up in our families, and that's how we raise our children. The last thing I want to stress again. That's how we raise our children. For us, their upbringing is based on values that are dyed with blood, pain and grief. Above all, it is based on faith in these values, love for our country and hope for a better tomorrow. May 19 is not just a day of memory. It's a deeply mourning date. It is a date when we all put together our voices and send everywhere the message that humanity cannot relive such atrocities. It's not a day of vengeance. But it's a day of vigilance. "Whoever does not remember his story is obliged to relive it," that is what I read at the entrance of Auschwitz when I had the honour of visiting with the mission of the Parliament on May 2, that place for another day of memory, the Holocaust of a historical also people, the Hebrew. We remember it, ladies and gentlemen, our history, because these things our ancestors taught us with their livelihood, these values, they gave us, this way, they showed us not the sighs on which some of the government walk along with others who agree by signing treaties, such as the one of the Prespecies, which our Macedonia gives, is the entire people who disagrees and protests. Anyone who does not remember his story is obliged to live it again and this is why it is more timely than ever, when today all the absurd voices on the other side of the Aegean are raised, both threatening our Cyprus and its oil, as well as us, our islands, our Thrace. If the rulers in neighbouring Turkey got out of their way, we are obliged to remind them that dates like yesterday's are days of remembrance and vigilance in order not to be repeated for any reason. They are days of mourning, of pain, of tears, of mourning. It is not a day of celebration, as they see it and celebrate it, because we on the graves of our own ancestors do not negotiate, deliver land and water, we do not stop trying to keep humanity from living such tragedies as that of the Pontius. I send the message to every corner of the earth, condemning these crimes against humanity. That is why we are striving to recognise everywhere the Moles genocide, so that similar crimes against human beings do not happen again, similar crime against innocent victims. Let their memory be eternity! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much Mr. Georgiadis. We will proceed to the last speaker on today's special session, the independent MP from the second of Athens Mr. Stathia Panagoulis, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, the Moles genocide has been classified - and fair - National Memorial Day. I would venture to say that it is, first of all, a national debt day, a debt we have not forgotten against the glorious Pontian Hellenism. The suffering our Pontius brothers suffered, not for something they did, but only for what they were. Their origins, pride and unscrupulous hearts were the ones who were convicted of them as crimes. I will not tire you with things that are known to all of us. I am not the one who will tell you what to date is spoken orally to the Pontius families. We all know that the Turks systematically submitted the Pontian people into unacceptable living conditions, with the aim of altering their identity and breaking up their unity, and they did not succeed. We are all in pain whenever we remind ourselves of the events of the dramatic period of persecution, genocide and uprooting, the premeditated and premeditated events that have resulted in a genocide policy. The state did not stand as it should be in the Polish Hellenism. I would remind you that, in the early 1990s, the PASOK Parliamentary Group unanimously accepted the proposal by President Andreas Papandreou, following a letter from the Pontian Members of the movement, to table a proposal for a law on the official recognition by the Greek Parliament of the three hundred and three thousand Pontians, which was made by the Turks between 1916 and 1923, and that 19 May was established as the Memorandum of Memorial of the Pontian Genocide. Ladies and gentlemen, we must cover the lost time and make our daily assumption of bailing on the one hand and spreading on the other of historical truth, of learning the history of the Pontians and the to date unpunished crimes of the Turks. Together we have to show that Pontius sacrifices for the country have never stopped. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say again that I have a firm belief that the fight of our Pontian brothers for justice will be a winner because it is fair. For centuries the memory of the three hundred and fifty - three thousand victims of the Genocide of the Pontius. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Panagoulis. Ladies and gentlemen, the Special Meeting on the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greeks of the Sea has been completed here. The Minutes of Wednesday 6 March 2019, Friday 8 March 2019, Thursday 14 March 2019, Friday 15 March 2019, Monday 18 March 2019, Monday 18 March 2019, Tuesday 19 March 2019, have been distributed and the House is asked if it validates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u34	The minutes of Wednesday 6 March 2019, Friday 8 March 2019, Thursday 14 March 2019, Friday 15 March 2019, Monday 18 March 2019, Tuesday 19 March 2019, were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-20-S1-commons.u35	With the consent of this House at 13.55' the sitting is closed for Monday 3 June 2019 at 18.00" on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
