ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 23 September 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 10/17-9-2019 by the Deputy of State of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilios Vassiliou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "National Book Policy". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 16/17-9-2019 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Maria Konnaka to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Let the Municipal Library of Rhodes continue to function through its staff". 3. The Question No 4/11-9-2019 by the President of the Parliamentary Group Greek Solution and MP Larissa Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: 'Definition of the Exclusive Economic Zone (AOZ)'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 17/17-9-2019, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To implement the bathing programme implemented in primary education, in a way that meets the needs of students as a whole". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 5/11-9-2019 by the President of the Parliamentary Group Greek Solution and MP Larissa Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: 'Press Agreement'. 3. The 19/17-9-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "For the problem of housing and the construction of new outbreaks". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the third with No 15/17-9-2019, the first-round question of the Piraeus II piraeus k.Fotinis Bakadamma of Mera25 to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Statement of archives of patients of General Nice". This timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr Kontozamanis. Mrs. Bakada, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, no one disputes that the health sector, especially public primary and secondary care in our country, is suffering and that many structural changes must be made. Every day we all see that thousands of our fellow citizens are called upon to face a monster of bureaucracy and a lack of organization that, together with the shortcomings in medical and nursing staff, makes the situation even worse. As far as the miserable situation in which thousands of patients are kept in the State General Nice is concerned, everyone knows that it is not something new or that we are the only ones to understand. According to images that once again saw the light of publicity, the unacceptable storage conditions of thousands of hospital patients allowed to rot in containers and warehouses continue. So, despite the recent privacy law and while we all know that the individual health file has already been legislated and implemented for thousands of patients, numerous files are still stacked in boxes, which are exposed to all sorts of disasters. Given that the files and personal data of thousands of our fellow citizens are unambiguous, while many useful information is at risk of being lost by making it difficult to keep a complete medical history of many patients, we would therefore like to be informed, as we know that as the head of the Ministry of Health you have knowledge of the issue, which initiatives will be taken on your part to resolve the issue and on what timetable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the topical question and the issue of the thousands of patient files in the State General Nice is concerned, we have to say: First of all, as regards the journalistic receipt of images of the space that they have baptized as a'registration', it is an area that is closed and unaccessable to citizens. It is not an escape point or corridor, for example, an emergency exit. This space is made exclusively for use in storage of all kinds of material. It should be noted that accessibility to this space is only granted to the person concerned. On the substance of the problem now, this hospital situation certainly does not provide a price, but it is not the only hospital in this situation, nor is the record storage conditions a new phenomenon. We need a comprehensive solution in this direction. Firstly, with regard to the individual electronic health file established by Law 4238/2014 and amended by Law 4600 in order to adapt the patient's electronic file to the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation, we must say that he is in progress and is not a dossier that is completed from one day to the next. In the context of the digital strategy, which both the government and the Ministry of Health implements, it is our priority to complete the electronic file in order to be for the benefit of both patients who have access to their own data and the medical community, in order to provide better health services. Already in late 2018, the Ministry of Health issued a detailed circular on the guide for the preparation of hospitals and the main guidelines for compliance with the General Protection Regulation. Feature I should like to tell you that this circular mentions, among other things, the essential priority requirements on the part of health service providers and providers, how task assignments are commissioned, how the archives are organised. Of course, there are also answers to normal questions and concerns that have already been raised with the data protection officer of the Ministry of Health. I must say that, in essence, in the context of the Government's digital strategy, our goal is to complete the digitisation of all files so that we have the history of every citizen who has been hospitalized in public nursing establishments. Therefore, in answer to the essence of your question, we are telling you that the complete digitisation of the carnival records of the hospitals in the country is our priority, with a view to the effective functioning of patient registers, the reduction of the operating costs of health establishments, the safeguarding of personal data, the development of an effective public health policy and compliance with the provisions of the General Privacy Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the Minister's position and heard it with great interest. You mentioned that it is a direct objective to complete digitisation. So I would like to use my time to ask you one or two more things on this. We all understand what we mean by 'vote'. But who does the Ministry have in mind to make the digitisation? Is there going to be a competition to hire new people? Is there going to be a recycling with the benefit of the unemployed? We'd like, if you could, to give us some information on it. You also said that it is a closed space, unaccessable and that accessibility to it is limited. I think it is clear that not everyone would have access, even to patients' visitors in this area, but they still risk losing too much information until digitisation is completed. And the second question I would like you to answer, Mr Minister, is whether there is a timetable. You said that since 2018 a driver of compliance has come out and already the online folder has been established since 2014. Is there a timeframe on your part when the e-card will now be ready to remove all the files and thousands of documents that the doctors need to have to have a complete medical history of the patient? Of course, we do not expect you to have all the answers today. I know, however, that this is a matter that you and the Minister have seen, and that is why we have chosen this to be our first topical question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, digitisation is not a simple process, many factors are involved, mainly technological, and it is not just a matter of a few days. A concrete strategy needs to be developed within the framework of the overall development we are preparing and the roadmap, both in hospitals and in health regions and in general in health institutions in the country, we will soon have the roadmap in order to go to full digitisation. I would like to stress once again that the strategy of the government is the health system to reach a point where there is no paper at all, because this is a problem both for the citizens and for the workers and for the health system. I also told you that we recognise the problem with the files, and I believe, I am sure, from previous experience in the health field, that there are surely other hospitals where the situation with the files is not what one would like. And it's not something that changes from one day to the next. In a short time you will see our complete proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. We will now continue with our second question with number 14/17-9-2019. Acharon.’ In this timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos. Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, according to the officials of the DUA Acharnon, the Independent Public Revenue Authority is attempting to close the DU Acharnon and transfer its activities to Saint Anargyros and elsewhere. Is that true, Minister? If so, what are the reasons for this closure of the DUA Acharnon? Can it be suspended?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u11	We thank both Parliaments for their prompt and rapid placement. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that from the government and from my side, there is and will continue to be respect for the parliamentary control procedure. I, too, put myself on the tables of the opposition, exercising parliamentary control, and I cannot say that there was such respect in Parliament and in this institutional process by the ministers of the previous government. I would therefore like to reply to my colleague on the substance. First of all, at the core of your question, for the suspension of activities at the DU Acharnon, I would like to make it clear that there is no such decision at present. Of course, our aim is in no way to create service problems for taxpayers, businesses and productive potential in the region, otherwise. Not only for this region but also for the whole country, our aim is to upgrade the services of the tax authorities. With the establishment and operation of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, the Greek State took a step forward and emancipated the authority responsible for the public revenue and operating model of the services concerned, including the DUs. The main thing, however, is that everything is now in a continuous phase of evaluation and update with regard to actions, performance of services and strategic choices. Given that the DUs are the key mechanism for establishing and collecting public revenue, the assessment and continuous monitoring of their performance, functioning and improvement of their services to citizens are necessary. Within this framework of constant monitoring and evaluation, organisational interventions are carried out if it is deemed necessary in order to ensure the proper and effective functioning of the DUI and therefore the AUDM, which we want to be a modern and effective body to safeguard public revenue and to control tax evasion, with the ultimate aim of becoming a lever for growth and consolidation of the economy. Most of all, however, we want a model of operation that builds relationships with the citizen and strengthens the idea of tax compliance. As you can see, at this time we are in a process of overall evaluation, as far as the structure and operation of services is concerned. Any decision taken will be based on a comprehensive study and will constitute a rational duplication of needs in view of the maximum effectiveness of services, but above all on better service for citizens. In this direction, we want to activate a new grid of innovations, with online and electronic services, which will not make the frequent presence of citizens in the DUs necessary and necessary. I shall refer to these innovations in my dentistry. I think, however, that these actions concerning the provision of electronic services by the tax authority to the citizens must be a broad consensus and agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u14	Thank you for the clarifications, Minister. It is indeed important that the DUA Acharon is not closed. We must bear in mind that the municipality of Acharnon is the fourth largest municipality in Attica. It is the twelfth largest municipality of all Greece with a population of about seven thousand in 2011 and more than a hundred fifty thousand today. It gathers about fifty thousand craft and industrial enterprises and the stay of the DU in Acharnes will facilitate all professionals in the direction of the development of this historic municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis sees tomorrow, designs and implements actions with a reference point in the future. Our aim is to change the philosophy of the operation of the tax services, particularly with regard to the citizen, to reduce the frequency and the need for taxpayers to be present in the tax. The question is not the quantitative dimension of the WIPO, but what is the service indicator for the citizen and the efficiency of the tax services. In this direction we want to proceed with a comprehensive digitisation of the procedures and the infrastructures of the tax services so that the public can also be electronically served by the public for all public service services that are currently carried out in taxes and the self-representative presence can only be required for the purposes of tax control, and it must be planned and in line with its needs. Our aim is also to transfer real estate, without having to be represented in the tax office, and this objective goes through the digitisation of the tax chapters. That is to say, automated and electronically, a number of procedures such as the submission of declarations of transfer of property and parental benefits by electronic means. The same direction includes actions such as the automatic updating and interconnection of the Tax Office with other public administration registers, the interconnection and cross-checking, information between the Tax Register and the General Commercial Register, in order to directly record changes in legal persons, the development of an information system for the automated proof of late submission of VAT returns and other taxes, the interconnection with the "VATCHOLOGY S.A." in order to make the necessary cross-checks. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the issues that should concern us, these are the major challenges for the future, these are our priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would like to inform you that the first question under number 11/17-9-2019, first question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Integration of Metro of Thessaloniki directly", will not be discussed as a result of an obstruction of the relevant Minister. Also, the first question under number 12/17-9-2019 of the second-cycle question of the Radical Left coalition Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Following the work of the Giannitsa and Chalkidona bypasses" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. It has been sent by the Secretariat-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, by the Secretary-General, saying: “We are telling you, in this letter, about the discussion of the topical questions in the context of the parliamentary scrutiny of Friday 20 September 2019, that it is impossible to present the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos - Achilleas Karamanlis, to whom the two topical questions are addressed, due to his absence for service reasons, participate in the work of the European Union Transport Council which takes place on the same day in Brussels.” Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we are going to have a little break and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The second question under number 8/16-9-2019 of the first question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "To give the Region of Crete responsibility and funding (EUR 25 million) for road safety on the Northern Axis of Crete (BOAK)" The Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Ioannis Kefalonianis, will respond. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know firsthand and because of your status as a member of the Rethymnon of Crete, that there have been mistakes and omissions on the subject of the BOAK, but there has also been a real task. By 2012, some fifty to sixty kilometers have been auctioned and then implemented, by a design that had been in previous years. Of course there was also a cancellation of a auction section concerning Rethymnon Law, the Panormo - Exanti, by the SYRIZA Government. The money intended for this sub-project, as well as the other money at the service in question for the implementation of part of the rest of the project, was transferred to other roads in the country and, in particular, covered the increase requested by the concessionaires in large roads. We therefore have a real problem with a period of four to seven years - depending on where you will start - which has not been carried out as a project. The previous government rocked four and a half years and left a stubborn design and some actions on the primary level. He left something. I have asked Mr Karamanlis and the Ministry as a whole to look at how the project will go ahead, to use what has been done, even the opposing actions, the duplex design, so that we do not come back again. Our position as a Change Movement and my personal position, having all the experience of previous years, is that if it is not given to Crete in the Region of Crete, all the responsibility for the North Axis road and all the road system of the island will not proceed. And I say this with the experience of all previous years, mistakes and omissions. Of course, I should like to say that this requires legislation and, of course, has to do with the different approach required by the Constitution to the islands. In Crete it is very difficult to put the toll system and at a high price. It's an island, it's a closed road system. It is not the intercontinental or interregional routes that exist around the world. It's an island, a closed system. In this sense, then, you must examine very quickly, so that no more time is lost, what you will do and let us know about the design. As a first step in this direction, I think you should go ahead with the 15 million already approved - for a long time, rather - for rehabilitation on the North Road in specific areas of landslides and, of course, the 25 million designated for road safety to be given to the Region of Crete, also to the restoration work, which has been pending for a long time - must be three years that have caused these damages - and the work of improving road safety must go ahead. I would like your answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u20	The State Secretary, Mr Kefalayannis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u21	Mr Colleague and abbreviation, you have opened a number of issues beyond the question, and I will speak very briefly, because it concerns all those who live and visit Crete. Indeed, there have also been mistakes and omissions over the past few years, and I think there is no doubt about it. It's something that's self-proof. I will certainly agree with you that, unfortunately, four and a half years have been lost by the previous political leadership of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, because there have been recurrings in the original designs. I remind you of statements by the top ministers of the then government that there is no need for a North Axis, because it will ruin the natural landscape. Then we went to a second design in terms of the strategic study, then recurring, and unfortunately we arrived in 2019 and the only thing that exists and that's what we all have to understand, is a competition in terms of expression of interest. Let me tell you just Greek, in fact who you are interested in dealing with the project, when the studies are done and when it is auctioned. So, in essence, we are at a point of zero, if I add what you quite rightly mentioned about Panormos - Exanti, a project that had been auctioned, there has been a contractor, and I, too, as a Rethymno MEP with at least four parliamentary questions, erupted the risk bell to the political leadership at the time, and unfortunately this project has been cancelled. And you quite rightly said that there was a certain moderation to cancel the project. I, too, realise that we need to speak very specifically from now on and I think we should also address the world to Crete to know what to expect from us and not leave general announcements that do not actually correspond to the reality. I come a little bit and the particulars you have asked me about. With regard to the first amount of 15 million for the restoration of the landslides at the BOAK, Mr Kegeroglu, there was a document from the Region of Crete, which actually declared inability to study and carry out the restoration work. I am telling you this because you said that this amount must be allocated to the region, and indeed the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport did the work and this sum of 15 million was secured. What does that amount include? The study was commissioned by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in accordance with the urgent procedure laid down in Article 32 of Law 4412. In fact, these studies will be completed in a month and a half from now on in November 2019. At the same time, however, some interventions were made directly by the Ministry, with regard to the positions of Great Chorafia, Stalos and Galatas Chania, which resulted in full and safe restoration of traffic, at least in the normal section of the road and, after the studies, in November, with the urgent procedure, the completion of the studies is the restoration of these phenomena. Of course, you should know that the aim is for these work to be carried out during the winter season, which you know very well that traffic burdens are being considerably reduced, so that there is less suffering and burden on the users of the BOAK. So, as far as the first amount you mention is concerned, the 15 million study in November is that recovery work will take place during the winter season. On the basis of the regional document that there is a weakness, you realise that they will be executed by the Ministry. Now, as far as the amount you mention about road safety, Mr Kegeroglu, at least as far as I am concerned, from my services, is about 19.5 million - it is not 25 - and it concerns two parts. It is the Department of Georgioupolis - Kavos - Petres and the second division is Fodele - Linopera. With regard to the first section, to inform you, there was a study on the upgrading of road safety in the section, which I described, namely Georgioupolis - Kavos - Petres. In fact, it had been prepared, with care of the Development Agency of Crete and had been forwarded to the relevant department of the Ministry. From the assessment of the maturity of this study, it was unfortunately found that it did not fulfil the elements of Article 49 of Law 4412, in particular in the study forwarded by the OAS. In fact, the static studies of hiking and crossings were lacking, and this is therefore necessary for geotechnical research. And because there was this shortage, since, in fact, this project is co-financed by the European Union, there was no condition of eligibility. What have we done right now as a ministry? The Ministry's Directorate D14, in essence, has followed the procedure laid down in Article 128 of Law 4412 for the recruitment of a technical consultant, which is directly signed and we will proceed to the maturation of the study. As regards the road safety of Fodele-Linoperamas, approved studies are expected by the OAS in order for the service to proceed to a tender. I told you that for these two projects totalled 19.5 million. Therefore, not 25 million. Finally, I would like to say that as far as the maintenance of the BOAK was concerned - because there was a division of responsibility - it has always been in the Region of Crete, but now there is the unanimous decision - opinion of the Legal Council of the State by Article 105/2019, which has been accepted by the previous political leadership by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. It has now been decided, let's say, irrevocably, that it is responsible for maintenance of the BOAK, since it is not a closed highway, at the moment it is the Region of Crete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, on the design of a modern highway, the North Axis road, I have to tell you two elements. For the answer given to me by the D16, the Ministry, in relation to what has been done, included six awards of four proletarians and two studies on specific issues of the BOC, and in this sense, something has gone on. I would say that these things will not come back, that they will be exploited so that the process can be speeded up. Keep in mind that the Greek State, the Greek state, owes Crete, which had accepted that the largest axes of the mainland are prioritised, but wants the state to fulfil its obligation and put the corresponding funds for the creation of the BOAK. When the state puts the corresponding money to implement this road axis, there will be no horror tolls, even if they exist. I mean, what we saw on a front page in the past few days, that Crete does not want to toll, is the result of the perception that, to go from Athens to Thessaloniki, you want EUR 60 to 70 and to go from Heraklion to Rethymnon with three tolls, you will only want EUR 12 for the tolls. So the key is what money will put the public and not what system will be applied for its implementation. We shall now proceed to implementation. I referred to a radical incision that can be done. The answer itself shows that we've lost the booze. There is a special agency of the BOAK, which was previously in the Ministry, then transferred it to the Development Agency of Crete, when OANAK and OADYK were unified, in order for BOAK to be responsible. Mr. Spirjis came and actually took her back. Today the service is suspended. So what do I say? Simple: The special service of the BOAK - let the Dodecanese and the others, which Spirtz is stuck to blur water - go to the Region of Crete together with D16, as a technical consultant of the Ministry, which is a very good service indeed, has very good executives. The Region of Crete is the appropriate instrument. Of course, the region said and rightly so, 'I cannot bear the burden on the existing structure'. If the special service goes, you may have to. Don't make the mistake of taking her back to OAS. The OPC is not the political, developmental organ, which is the Region of Crete. He is a technical consultant very good and as such can work, but not as a decisive body, who can walk a project intactly. I have also been the President of the OANAK for ten months, and I am very well aware of their potential. They are huge, but not at the political level and at the level of the management of a planning and implementation. I think that the three-year delay from a Ministry itself, which wants to carry out a project to tackle landslides in Crete, shows that things cannot function in Athens. Decentralize. The request is to transfer, as I have said, the EEAS - BOAK to the Region of Crete and the corresponding responsibility for the implementation of the project. I consider this to be the best solution. For road safety, I have not only referred to the money that has been named for the BOAK, which is very well mentioned what it is - which even the study sees as confusing, with Athens dealing with a project of the Region of Crete exclusively - but also to the possibility that you have as Ministry, through the wider line available to you, to provide money for the road safety of the whole island. Because we have seen that the Prime Minister was also interested in BOAK, interest should not be just formal and nominal. Please check this possibility, I am telling you about the Region of Crete and give you the money needed for road safety - and not only Georgioupolis - Chania and Fodele - Linoprams - the money necessary to strengthen road safety until the Cretans see the new, modern highway for which, as I said, there must be no other mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u25	Mr Colleague, I told you beforehand that we must speak here in particular, so that our fellow citizens also know what to expect. There is no specific allocation at this time of 25 million, a tank that we can make available to the Ministry as we want on road safety issues. These are two projects, which are part of the road safety section, specifically concerning the BOAK. I told you what the timetable is and what the problems are, and I believe that at least these two projects which, in fact, are very important in order to make these speeches which, on some points, are also independent of the final design and tendering and implementation of the BOC. It's something that needs to be done. Moreover, you are well aware that such interventions are already being carried out at the node of Agia Pelagia, for example. Now, as far as we have opened a more general debate, in addition to the close question, on the BOAK issue, I told you earlier that we as a government have no reason to go back. If there are some, as you said, premeditated projects or some advances - which have been made - we have no intention of canceling them and going back some years, but as you quite rightly said, they are premeditated. At the moment, unfortunately, there is something specific. We are going to run the whole process and, in fact, as a ministry in the next few months, we will be ready to say to the Cretans what we are waiting for, and we expect this timetable for the implementation of the project. I think that there will also be appropriate answers to what has happened, to know what has happened and, of course, what is going to happen. Now, as far as toll tolls are concerned: I think you too, in your reply and your position, are perceived, as the previous administration, which said that tolls should be tolled, but not paid by the inhabitants of Crete, but by visitors, and they too accepted the concept of tolls.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u26	Falsely.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u27	What we have said is that no question should be a taboo in order to have a modern highway soon which will also have a developmental character, but, of course, it will also be a tool to prevent the fatal accidents that are, unfortunately, happening on our island. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would also like to say something at this point, because we often give a dimension greater than that which is the reality. Unfortunately, most of the deaths, the fatal accidents in Crete are not happening in the BOAK, unfortunately occur on the provincial network and, above all, take place within towns. So, apart from the part of the infrastructure that I agree is a very big basic tool in order to prevent and reduce deaths, we need to look at the whole question of driving behaviour, and that is where I think at least we can agree and contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-20-S1-commons.u29	With the consent of the House at 10.49p. the sitting on Monday, 23 September 2019, at 18.00, on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
