ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 16-5-2019 authorisation, PKST's minutes at its meeting of Thursday, 16 May 2019, with regard to: (a) the election of the Z' Vice-President of Parliament and (b) the vote in the entire draft law: "Structuring the donation contract between the Greek State, the Children's General Hospital of Pentelis and the contributors of Elizabeth Papagiannopoulou's covenant and other provisions".]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First, let me inform you of the timely questions that will not be discussed. The first under number 520/14-5-2019 topical question by MP I of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Protection of citizens and borrowers from the abuse of legal offices as collector companies", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Economy and Development, due to unsuccessful obligations. Likewise, the first question under number 521/14-5-2019 by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Antonio Balomenakis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The need to regulate franchising contracts", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Pitsirla, due to a government mission in Thessaloniki. The second question under number 516/14-5-2019 of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of Attica, Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The development of a specific plan and timetable to address the problems of the Eastern Attica affected by the fire of 23 and 24 July", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Stathakis, due to a workload. The first, with number 498/2-5-2019, top-cycle question (B) by MP Achaias of Democratic Incorporation Mr.Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, on the subject: "New unanswered and unanswered questions about the Greek School of Munich", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to a workload. Finally, the first question under number 501/3-5-2019 from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “Talk through works at Rhodes Airport,” will not be discussed due to the lack of responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Development. The Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure is responsible. In a corresponding question, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure had said it was responsible for the Ministry of Finance. Perhaps we should clarify which ministry, in the end, has competence. We shall now proceed to the only timely question to be discussed. It is the second first question by number 515/14-5-2019 (A) by the Member of the Republic of Attica Mr. Athanasios Bourras to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Pressuring Municipalities of Megaron". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Dimitras. Please, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President, and because it is the only one, the time will not work. It is also a question which has no opposition at all. It has a constructive character, which is only to help complete the realisation and finally to facilitate the Greek citizens, where they are unresolved. I have to say from the outset that since the first moment the Minister took up these duties and, on my own initiative, after the separation of the regions, I am now a member of the West Attica, and I will be a candidate again, I did indeed have very good cooperation with the Minister present, Mr Diaras, who also on account of specialty - because he is also an engineer - understood everything. I kept annoying him about the course of the realisation of a major municipality, such as the Municipality of Megarion. As the old lawyers, Minister, and Mr President, have said, this municipality is one of the largest - if not the largest - municipalities in the country. I mean on a geographical scale, but now it's very large municipality and population. I have to say to you - and the Minister remembers - that since the first moment, which was not a good time to start stockpiling, on 12 December, namely on the eve of Christmas and New Year's festivities, where the Grands, in particular, who are involved in the primary sector - because they have a significant agricultural, livestock, poultry, fisheries and more generally primary sector - were in a state of preparation in order to meet the needs of the holiday market. Because they too have been waiting for the year to come, Minister. Then, in fact, the Minister was constantly accepted throughout the period that we would run out in the quarter provided for by the law, that the extensions would be given - and indeed were given in two stages. Now, in fact, we are also at the end of the last extension, that is, about fifteen days ago. It shall expire on 12 June. I, Mr Minister, have said as I have said - and I think we are still having a chance here today - have been visiting the Greater Manuscript Offices on a very regular basis. I visited them recently. My findings were, as well as my information from the competent authorities, that the realisation so far reaches about 12%. And that is not the main reason for this. It refers to areas such as Kineta, Aleppohori and other settlements, which are inhabited by selected residents, but settlements, which only had one right. In other words, they did not have the many rights of the locals, who have a large number of rights, from parcels, for example, because of many covenants, legacy legacy, etc. As you can see, the register is also the basis for all this to be settled throughout Greece. So, Minister, for the locals, it is not measurable for the percentage of landmarks and applications. They have a lot of rights. Honestly, I was bothering you. I have seen the amendment which has actually been passed. The amendments are always the prerogative of the government majority. But it is also the right of opposition to provoke them. But I also have to say for myself that I was him, who I have been talking to you all this time. In fact, a solution was reached yesterday with an amendment so that six months could be extended when the whole procedure is not completed. In fact, this possibility is being given. I imagine that this right to the Grands will be given to the whole of it, that is, in semester. The amendment has been put forward for up to six months. But I have to say - as we have already discussed, Minister - that there are other things that need to be done. It should be possible for you, for the House to trust you, and for you to be able by ministerial decision - alas - to simplify procedures. Because at the moment there are many obstacles, many obstacles. And, Minister, I don't know if it'll be enough for the next semester. I am sure it will not be enough. I wish I didn't. Last time, however, I verified. I think it needs to be completed so that the procedure can be simplified. And you know that. I too am willing to recommend to you measures to simplify the procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I thank you for your great tolerance, but we say useful things I believe. One last thing, Minister. The Megarites have many rights. As you know, only in the parcels, if there are ten, fifteen, twenty parcels of a man, when we speak of lots of small lots, because they come from multitude - it pays 35 euros for the first two. But that only applies to the parcels. For all the other rights that are many, one room, one sack, for all the others that are not agricultural parcels, it pays each 35 euros. The difficult economic situation in the world faces problems. I would at least say that what it gives for the parcels is the possibility for someone with ten such small rights not to pay all ten out of 35 euros, that is a great deal of money. One is this, to reduce the way it is for the parcels and the rest. Secondly, Minister, on the basis of the fact that many do not have the opportunity to pay a single payment to exercise the right to register, they can be settled with a number of doses. Of course these are not for the moment, they are not for the moment. I, however, believe that with the will you have and the pressure I am going to exert on you, we will move forward in order to facilitate the completion of the holding, to eliminate the margins and all this next semester to do well, so that we can try to complete this realisation. Thank you, Mr President, for your great tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President, and I would also like to thank Mr Bourrai, not only because he is doing his duty, Parliament's control, transferring the problems of his region and the problems of the inhabitants of the region, the owners, but a little - it gives a lot of stimulus to solve problems in the whole of our country. Well, it's an opportunity today, Mr. Bourrai, with your question, to inform the Greek people where we are, because the case of the Land register is a very serious case, combined with our country's productive reconstruction plan. It's combined with the economy. It combines with the citizens' facilities to do their job with the fight against bureaucracy. It combines with everything in relation to the protection of the environment, to record what public land is, what the land of private individuals is. It is now an opportunity, especially for rural areas, for people who have so far been unable to settle the titles, settle them and register them in the register. It should be noted that if property is not recorded in the register, it will be lost. And within the specific time that we give the citizens, and which we understand, we need to give the necessary extensions, not those that are not necessary, and I will explain why big extensions are not so easy. I say to the Greek people today that he must move, complete the documentation he needs and declare the properties. Because property that will not be declared at this time, then to be declared within the seven years that the law gives, they will have to record, put lawyer and topographer engineers and have a lot of expenses. They must therefore go to say within the deadlines, and we all want the Greeks to declare their property. We do not want ownership to be taken over by the Greek State. What can the Greek State do with them? We want, especially for rural areas, the land to be cultivated and the country's agricultural production to be increased. Where were we in 2015, Mr. Comrade? At 25.3% in 'rights', not to an extent of the country. The country was under 7%. In other words, from 1995 the law was passed by 2015 only 25.3% was in operation. It was, of course, also 22.3% in progress. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like a little tolerance, Mr President. Today, in this period and with a Memorandum of Understanding - we must say this, because many times the Memorandumary Obligations are in a positive direction and the things that we must have done on our own, now we are obliged to do so with commitments to the institutions - are being recorded almost all over the country. 60.3% is in progress. This is a positive development. We know, however, the difficulties we have in carrying out this realisation, especially in rural areas, because, when we said until 2015, real estate reached 25%, this was mainly in urban areas, where people have registered titles, they have entered the contracts into the mortgages. Farmers, however, carried their estates from grandparents to son and grandchildren on account. So there are no titles there. They have great difficulties, and we understand that. And what was not done in the twenty-two years since 1997, could indeed not be done in six months' time in the margins given by the law as a whole, that is, three months and three months. So this has led us there, understanding the difficulty of the Greek people, sympathizing with it, knowing that today in this tension it does not find a recorder, because everyone has a job, does not find a lawyer, the services from which a certificate is being delayed. For example, for a certificate of non-publishing parental will, the courts now state dates for delivery to applications made on 20-25 July. I have examples of these. So we understand the problems. We're with the Greek people. But on the other hand, we must also be with our duty to finish the register. We cannot be so tolerant that the citizen thinks 'all right, relax, what will happen, I will once go'. Oh, no. As you have seen, today we have moved forward, as in your own region. Last week I visited the Nafpaktos Stock Office, which has a good percentage there, is 19% more than the Megaras area. But we know that the average in the country is 15% right now. Finally, about half of the 1995 law is about 15% on average. So we understand the problem and there was no way that we could not deal with the matter and not change the law, because the Minister could not extend the legislation in force. This was the case on the occasion of an amendment tabled by colleagues at the initiative of Mr Kamateros, Mr Aryrotis, Mr Bardakis, Mr Gilolas, Mr Emmanoulidis, Mrs Tyleritis, Mr Thrafaniotis, Mr Michalis, Mr Syrmalenes - I do not mention them all - Mr Tsirkas, Mr Tsironis, Mr Chogas and Mr Psychogios. They therefore tabled an amendment enabling the Minister to extend up to six months. Mr President, because of the fact that the papers were written'refresh, six months and so on', we have to clarify that this is possible for the Minister to extend up to six months. No extension of six months has been granted. It will be given, on a case-by-case basis, by assessing the circumstances, that extension that does not prevent the citizen from leaving it to the end of the six months, but which will allow him to gather the documents and to do this. In view of that, therefore, this amendment was accepted last night, and I too, Mr Bourrai, have to say, on my part, that I take very much into account your remarks and your nuisances, because you are bringing problems for the Greek people to the Ministry and I appreciate your contribution to solving problems with the information you bring. It should therefore be explained by this step today and the Greek people should understand that there was no general extension of six months. With the amendment the Minister was given the opportunity to extend up to six months by appreciating the conditions. The extensions that will be given will not be so long, because they should not be. Because there is another dimension, Mr Bourrai, that there are contracts with the realisation offices which expire at a specific time. So don't think we can get another extension after six months. Not even in the semester, we're gonna run out of it. The extensions will be made, by monitoring the declarations made, that is, the percentages of declarations and 'rights', by encouraging the citizens, by informing them and by facilitating them with many things. Because, so far, this is the case for anyone who does not have all the supporting documents, who submits what he has, takes a deadline and submits the rest. I'll fill in, Mr. Bourra, then in my dentistry, and everything else is missing. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would point out again that since Mr Dimitras took office there has been a different approach to the issue of ownership. I have no picture for all of Greece, but I have the picture of this very sensitive region of Western Attica, which I represent. I must tell him that at least I am - not to say on a daily basis - in very frequent contact with him and always inclined them - to stress this - and also because of his speciality as a fighter. Indeed, I must say that as many times as we have been in a panel of controversy, we have never been confronted with other things, but with politics. To say something, Minister, and not to misunderstand me: I must say to myself that from the Attica Region - because the names of the Members you have read are from other regions - I am the only one who is bothering you on this issue. Again, I'm the only one, and that's what I have to say, because I also have to project myself in the good sense of the term. Minister, I will again stress: I wish it would end June! I wish! I would wish it and wish it all the world, which creates tails. In particular, for this area of the Megaron - I do not know - the entire six-month period has to be given, and I would say it from the outset. Now I do not know how you will operate with the ministerial decision and how - and that is your right - you will deal with the matter of extensions. I would point out that I want to see - and I will press the Treasury if it is there, or if it is yours - the matter of costs. And as far as costs are concerned, they cannot give EUR 35 for every small 'right'. Do you know that there are fifty rights to poor people who cannot afford to pay them? Don't think they're rich and have properties. Nothing can do with it. Secondly, they should be given the opportunity not to pay a single payment, but to make an advance and then pay back on the basis of their possibilities. I will make a very constructive proposal to you, Minister, and I will read it out. Citizens are not informed, and that is the first thing. Of course, I have to say something you said at the beginning of the development of the register. Many governments have passed, many parties. Every start and difficulty - it is a given one - and every next year it is also the one that improves things. Woe not to improve function! Otherwise it started, with too much difficulty, I remember them. The Land register has gone through phases and will constantly complete its capacity to improve. So this is a normal development. Minister, I will propose that the cemetery offices - from the beginning - which you choose - not you, the Stock Exchange and are contractors - should first of all be obliged to send to the landlord a note in detail what he can and can't do. I'll tell you there are things people don't know, torture and wait, and maybe they don't... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It's useful, Mr. President, listen. Firstly, contracts are received without the certificate of registration - people do not know that - provided that they are presented in addition during the course of their realisation. I can go without having a registration certificate and deposit them. Secondly, judicial decisions and contracts adopted after the expiry of the time limit shall be deposited in due course. I mean, he doesn't know, and he runs for these certificates, and he's in the short term, and he doesn't know it, in the vet's office, within a month of his transfer to the mortgage office. He's in the short term, but not take it and put it in the drawer. Third, the conditions for which a penalty has been set, after the expiry of the period, shall be deposited with the Certification Office within one month of the publication of the minutes. The world is waiting for it to be published to go all the other papers. It's not like that, but people don't know it, Mr. President. Fourthly, the rights of citizens may be lodged in part. I'm going today, I'm laying down all the rights I have, and I can be consistent, I'm opening my tab - Athanasios Bouras, etc. - and then I'll be back in. Fifth, I'm stressing this again, Minister. The cost of EUR 35 is heavy on other rights. The world does not even know that in the parcels it only pays the two and does not pay the rest. But it is a heavy cost, because we have a lot of rights here. Not much in size, a lot in number, which means for 35 euros. Sixth and it is very important, with regard to inherited fruits, that is to say in terminology - a certificate of non-publishment of a covenant, a registration act of death, etc., which must be presented in cases where there is no acceptance of an inheritance, the declaration may be lodged and without the submission of all the documents required, provided that it is produced in addition when they are issued. People don't know that and they can't find out. It can't be done. We must make it easier for the citizen, Minister. And how do we make it easier for him? Even now, as well as in cases open from now on, or you are still pending, and at the moment I am talking about the Grands, you can get a letter to every citizen who can inform him that he can submit his papers with what I have said and with any other information. I can't claim to know everything. What I am going to say, however, is this: I too, as a representative of the region, think it is a good thing - and I thank the Minister in particular - that everything that is stated in the amendment we have discussed together and said that this extension should be granted, etc. I say this again: Legislative initiative - whether laws or amendments accepted - is, of course, the majority government. However, as a Member of Parliament I will always be interested in my region and in this particular issue which I consider to be a key to development, a key to an area that significantly supports the primary sector in its entirety, in all its individual areas. I would therefore like to ask you to take advantage of the extension limit and see together the possibility of the economic aspect of realisation in order to facilitate fellow citizens. In some ways, even now, this office, which has taken over the realisation - I don't know who - sends home information with letters, addresses. I can't imagine it being costly in relation to the big cost of real estate. It can be done by sending letters or by sharing written communications in all areas, in all homes, even in the way that we as citizens often share our brochures and see our positions. I think that's gonna make it easier. Here we are watching the issues. I'll keep an eye on them, and I'll keep an eye on you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very warmly for the time to come on such a great subject for the Great, which I have already raised, but which is mentioned throughout Greece, either in unprecedented cedars or in anticipated ones. Why, we have said, we have a long way to go to these tools called the 'Bustoms', 'Customs', etc. to complete and form the key to our country's development for the good of all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. You have the floor, Minister, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u8	I would also ask for a relative tolerance, Mr President, because this really is a very serious matter and it is an opportunity today for the Greek people to be informed. This issue concerns the vast majority of the Greeks. After all, you would see today that almost all the newspapers are talking about the opportunity given to the Minister to extend. Mr Bourraud, thank you again for the cooperation I would say that I have with you, but also for the creative, positive and well-meaning proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u9	I'll give it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u10	Yeah, give it to me. It is true that there are particular weaknesses, particularly in rural areas. It's easy in urban areas, very difficult in rural areas, because we don't have titles. One is that. Also, many people do not know where the lands they have inherited are. In other cases there are many heirs and they are indifferent. So I think that we will never have 100% of 'rights', because some people are indifferent, they don't even want to say that. For what I commit, which I care and fight with the citizen, it is for people who want to declare their property - not those who do not want - to be given the opportunity and the time, however, in real dimensions - and not the well-known negligence of the Greeks at the last minute - to be able to declare their property. That's my care. Because I know the great importance of the Land register and beyond my other responsibilities - I deal with urban regenerations and we almost have a bill that is very important for towns to green up - I am very concerned about the Land register. I have the impression - and they call it the same people in the register - that he has not dealt with the register so much in the past. On a regular basis, almost every week, I have a joint meeting with the Bureau, meetings, cooperation with the Registry. I live the agony of the Greeks and try to solve a great problem, which is the foundation for the productive reconstruction of our country. So let us make this clear to the Greek people. On the other hand, it is not that easy, as I said, to give extensions. Because the Greek Stock Exchange has made a deal with the contractors. Within 40 months of the start, they should not only receive the statements, but they should process the data and cross-check the data, as far as securities are concerned, so that they can make the updates, postings, corrections and deliver them. You understand, therefore, that we cannot give any more extensions beyond these twelve months in total. The semester is enough. And I'm saying it won't be given directly for a semester. It will be given, if necessary, because it is costly. Each extension is costly because the operation of these offices is extended. People work in these offices. If the Greek is now going to the end of a quarter, of an extension of six months or two, what is given, these offices are not working. People must be fired. There's no object. We therefore take into account all matters with absolute responsibility: on the one hand, the interest of the State, on the other, that this procedure should be completed for the Greeks, because it is very important to declare the property. We want all the property to be declared. We do not want them to come to the state after seven years. That's something that's going to cost. And we will also ensure information. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u11	Minister, I'll interrupt to make an announcement, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty students and students and three teachers from the 4th Grade Vyron. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Our dear children, you see that there is only one MEP, Mr. Bouras and the Minister, Mr. Diaras, and there is a debate. If there were three, five, ten MPs there would be three, five, ten ministers. This process that we are now doing is called parliamentary scrutiny, in which Members come, those who want, and call the ministers and ask them, and they answer various issues of Greek society. This is called parliamentary control. The other main procedure of the House is the legislative work, where the parliament legislates, the ministers along with the MPs, on various issues that concern the country. So today we are seeing a Member of Parliament and a Minister, because a Member of Parliament has asked that the Minister, Mr Dimitras, should come in to answer his question. I'm explaining it to you so you don't wonder where only one Member is. Minister, you have the floor before to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u12	Welcome to Parliament, dear children. You didn't come to a day with many MPs and ministers. Once again, however, it will be useful to follow a timely question and the Minister's reply. This is the parliamentary control, an element of Parliament's democratic culture and good functioning. So I was saying, Mr Bourrai, that there was a failure in the information. There was a competition from the Land register that had been opened before me, who was barren, because there were few companies at that level. From there, through very few instruments, the register is moving forward - and it will go ahead - into a briefing. He's taken off these newsletters that are available in all the offices. It is right that your proposals must be found a way of informing every citizen. These forms, however, exist and are detailed about the obligations, the stages of citizens, etc. These forms are available at all offices. I have asked the Bureau, firstly, to have a detailed circular to all the contractors for the procedure and reach the citizens. It will be defined what we accept with the statements, what can we get, in terms of supporting documents, after the statements of ownership and 'rights' have been lodged. There must also be more detailed information like the one you are asking for and more detailed than the one in these forms that have come out, which will reach the citizens. There will also be a campaign for this. I repeat, however, that there is no misunderstanding: in yesterday's amendment to the law there was no six-month extension. The extensions given will be given by ministerial decisions of mine. We will have the first decision on the Dodecanese and so on, which ends. In your area, as in many other regions, such as Ioannina, the extension expires on 10 June. It will be the same there, taking into account all the issues. Because, as I have said, the extensions are costly and we do not want the Greek to come back to run for the last minute. Because another extension due to contracts by contractors will no longer be possible. And then there will be difficulties for the owners to go and claim their property in the courts. There's a lot of cost. And if this court proceedings go through, they are now losing their property. In other words, what was called the Tritsis era: "Speak it to save it." We also want to declare the property and to activate them, because we care for the increase in agricultural production and also for the registration of all Greek property. Thank you very much for the question. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I would like to make a statement. These are the six points I mentioned and have practicality. Let me say something, Minister, you will forgive me. When he sees complex brochures and multipages, people do not read them. The people want 'one - two - three'. A piece of paper, if he took it, he'd read it. And I'll give it to you with the rest of the procedures you're doing, do that as well. I repeat it must be simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u14	Submission of the document because it is not a trilogy provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u15	I'll testify to the Minutes, although I mentioned it. It's just written, it's nothing more. It is what I said in my denture, but it is written here in order to facilitate the Minister, who is the performer and I thank him. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u16	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-17-S1-commons.u17	With the consent of the House at 10.56 ́ the sitting for the next Monday, May 20, 2019, at 12.00, on the subject of the House's work: a special plenary session on the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greeks of the Sea, in accordance with the special agenda.
