ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Directives 2016/797, 2016/798 and 2016/2370 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents, on 4 October 2019, decided to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform, in principle, of articles and of the amendment. There is no Ministerial Amendment. However, there is a parliamentary amendment tabled by colleagues from the Change Movement, which the Minister will say whether or not he accepts. I therefore think that we agree on a procedure. The Minister has some legislative improvements to testify. That is why we will give him the floor to present them so that the rapporteurs and colleagues want to speak, take them into account. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, thank you. I'm going to submit three legislative improvements. As regards the first, in Article 26(5), the number 71 is replaced by the number 70. The second legislative improvement concerns the period (d) of Article 61(6). In particular, the word ‘Safety Regulations’ shall be deleted after the words ‘Safety’. The third legal improvement relates to paragraph 31(2) of Article 82, which deletes the phrase ‘(i.e. the tasks of an infrastructure manager)’. I'm tabling them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the first rapporteur, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of forty-six students and apprentices and four educational attendants from the 5th General Lyon High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please open the registration system for those colleagues who want to register. The system will close when Mrs Perka comes down from the Step, the SYRIZA rapporteur. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas, Member of the New Democracy and rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out from this point of view that the directives that we are discussing in our national law are being transposed late, since the previous government has not complied with the deadlines, so that we are in a difficult position with the Commission. The three directives are part of a wider legislative initiative aimed at completing the European Railway Area, the single market, that is, the internal market in rail services. Directives 2016/797 on the interoperability of the rail system and 2016/798 on rail safety are included in the technical pillar of a legislative package at Community level, called the ‘fourth railway package’. The market pillar of this package includes Directive 2016/2370 on the opening up of domestic passenger transport services by train and railway infrastructure management. With the technical pillar directives it is attempting to stimulate the competitiveness of rail transport by reducing financial and administrative burdens on railway undertakings that want to operate in Europe, reducing the volume of national regulations that may make it difficult for railway undertakings to operate in the European Union. In order to facilitate these undertakings, common rules on operation and safety are laid down on the one hand and new and simpler licensing procedures on the other. Responsibilities are transferred by the national authorities to the European Union Agency for Railways, which are related to the issue of safety certificates and the approval of vehicles and systems of the European rail traffic management system. Directive 2016/797 on interoperability introduces for the first time a two-tier railway vehicle authorisation procedure. Vehicles intended for cross-border activities shall be approved by a European Agency Service, while for vehicles only carrying out domestic movements an application for approval may be submitted either to the European Agency or to the National Security Authority. In the same logic, the European Agency shall issue safety certificates for railway undertakings in different countries, while domestic carriers may choose between the Agency and the National Security Authority for the issue of the certificate. Directive 2016/2370 on the establishment of a single European railway area attempts to improve the infrastructure management system and to liberalise the domestic passenger transport market by rail. I would like to stress here two elements concerning the OSE as an infrastructure manager: The first is that it ensures its independence in relation to undertakings providing transport services. The OSE may give access to the rail network and manage the planning of traffic and maintenance with impartiality and autonomy in order to properly operate competition between different providers. The second one, which the Minister also made clear in the committee responsible, is that the OSE remains the main infrastructure manager and therefore the infrastructure remains under the control of the Greek public. It is also important that the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure can grant exclusive rights to a public service contract or, even more importantly, restrict the possibility of railway undertakings from other Member States to offer transport services, to offer - where possible - the best possible - to the passenger public and, if the Regulatory Authority considers that the implementation and financing of public service contracts are threatened. The regulator's jurisdiction is also strengthened, particularly in the sensitive areas of infringements of legislation and unfair competition. Ladies and gentlemen, as the debate in the Commission has shown, most of us agree that upgrading rail transport in our country is necessary in order to have an essential role in the National Combined Transport Strategy. We see the new institutional framework as part of a number of priorities, such as improving railway infrastructure, linking the network with ports in our country, investment in freight centres. We believe, in short, that our country should become an even more powerful transit centre on the great trade road that unites Southeast Asia with Europe. In this possibility, we believe that further market liberalisation and the transfer of European know-how, objectives which are undoubtedly promoted by these three Directives, which we are voting in favour of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u5	I invite the general rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Perka, to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I see I'm probably going to talk a little more than the previous rapporteur. I also received a criticism in committee, because I said, 'My joy is not hiding'. But why? Because we really think rail. Anything that strengthens rail and promotes combined transport, we will be in agreement and you will also have our vote in favour. In other words, we will change the traditional transport model, which is based on the fragmentation of infrastructure and the priority development of road corridors, what we call'monodimensional transport', with another model that is environmentally friendly. This new model is managed by a complex, integrated and technologically interconnected system. I will not go too far on the directives. First of all, we must say about the technical pillar, which concerns the interoperability and safety of the railways. Here I would like to highlight a few points, such as the interest in interoperability. You know, many countries have different technical characteristics, such as signalling or the range of rails. Therefore, interoperability is a very important element in achieving economic efficiency and environmentally sustainable mobility. The other point, which I would like to point out, is the reduction of the costs and time for vehicle approval and the ERTMS systems, which is the European rail traffic management system. Here, let us say that the two elements of communication, namely GMS, and signalling, namely ETCS, have gone worldwide. The third system, which is fleet management, is the challenge for the next century. The third point is that the National Security Authority is designated. But let's go better to the so-called 'political package', which raises more discussion. This is about opening up the market for inland rail transport services and the governance of railway infrastructure and following the 2016/2338 Regulation. Here I will dwell on some of the positive points: The first is that there is a liberalisation by rules, which we hope will make rail transport more competitive and quality. Secondly, the social nature of the railway is maintained through public service contracts, where the possibility of restricting access to railway undertakings is provided for if they jeopardise the economic equilibrium of the contracts. The powers of the Regulatory Authority for Railways are, of course, strengthened. I will also make a point here: the RAS takes on crucial roles, such as the opinion of a number of critical issues and general control over the whole railway operation, and also takes over the role of the National Security Authority. We therefore need to take care of it, because as far as we know it is incomplete. There are, of course, some exceptions concerning urban, peri-urban, suburban, metro, tram, etc. A high-speed system of non-binding services is also recognised. It is the common system of information and the issue of a single ticket. Of course - I say this last, but perhaps it is the most crucial one - there is an important reform of the governance of infrastructure managers, with the aim of ensuring equal access to infrastructure and services for railway undertakings. The independence of the infrastructure manager shall also be ensured. Additional safeguards and non-discrimination requirements are required here, which must apply and document. At this point, in the committee, the Minister has already made a correction. We have made a comment on the responsibility of the infrastructure manager. It was stated that PPPs could also be given the functions of the manager to other undertakings without even regulating that relationship. We think it should be removed. We have also found it in Article 82(4), paragraph 7c. In other words, we believe that this possibility should be removed and it should be clear that the infrastructure manager is the OSE. At this point, I would like to give some explanation, because I understood from the debate in the committee that some things have not been understood. Firstly, the infrastructure continues to be public. These directives have nothing to do with the infrastructure issue. When we talk about liberation, then, we're talking about transport. I say this because speeches about the 'Theacher system' have been heard. For the record, Thatcher had launched a partial privatisation of the railways, while in 1993, Major fully privatised the railway - infrastructure and transport work - resulting in an increase in maintenance equipment accidents and a sharp deterioration in the state of the network and the quality of service. If that was the policy of the 4th Rail Package, you can be sure that we would disagree vertically. In our country, however, today we have only the participation of TRAINOSE in passenger and rail transport. In other words, we are dealing with a domestic monopoly, the Italian 'FERROVIE'. Do we have to protect that? That's the question. Nor do I understand the objection, as far as technically speaking, to the technical pillar, which focuses on resolving technical and regulatory obstacles, namely having a uniform and interoperable rail transport at European Union level. You will allow me to make a little report to prevent some inaccuracies that may be heard. The OSE from 1970 to 2005 was an infrastructure manager and the only transport project provider. With the bad management, over time, of the governments at that time, it has come to owe 14.6 billion, without ever having quality rail transport. The debt has been cancelled in the state budget and you understand what has happened. In 2005, the Separation of TRAINOSE began. In 2006 this was actually completed, it became a separate group, free of weight. From 2007 to 2011, TRAINOSE was again charged EUR 800,000, which was due by DGCom as State aid. When we took over, we had to deal with the following problem: if TRAINOSE were not privatised, we would have to return to the European Union EUR 800,000, which was the state aid charged. That's it for the story. Given that rail transport - I am returning - is a long way from sustainable transport, we hope that the fourth railway package will make this means of transport more attractive to passengers and contribute to the shift to less polluting modes of transport. That is, after all, the goal at European Union level, carbon discharge, which is even more essential today because of climate change. We therefore welcome the new data set out in the 4th Rail Package and hope that it will be another step towards the further development of the Greek rail system, which started five years ago, when we were in a borderline with the railways in the country, with deinvestment characteristic of what was happening in the road transport sector. Finally, the train from depreciation took life again, so that we can now talk about a modern electrified railway, safely and at high speeds in passenger and goods transport. The completion of the electrification on the Athens-Thessaloniki line, the arrival of the train in Agios, but also international connections with neighbouring Balkan countries, are some of the interventions of the SYRIZA Government, which demonstrate that the upgrading of the rail network was for us a priority, with further aiming to develop a strong Balkan group at the southeastern end of Europe. This is where I'm going to make a little report. Recently approved by the CEF the financing of the study and construction of the Alexandroupolis - Ormene project, because we really used all the financial instruments that existed as a government. We expect other projects to be approved by the CEF. But all this was not fragmentary policies. They were implemented as part of a national strategic transport plan with a final aim in 2037. On the basis of this plan, for the first time projects are not designed on the basis of personal and political criteria, but on the basis of criteria to serve the transport project, environmentally and socially. In this project, too, each instrument operates complementaryly rather than competitively with the other, with the aim of creating a single transport network, where combined transport will be facilitated. I hope that the current government, as continued our work in the 4th Rail Package, also continues to plan projects on the basis of this national strategic transport plan, in order to disprove our doubts and concerns about its abandonment. We will be here, we will monitor the work of the Government, and you will be sure that when drafts of legislation come towards an integrated intermodal transport system, where reliable, efficient and environmentally friendly transport are promoted, we will of course vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u7	The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Christos Gokas, is called in Stepma. Mr Goka, if you wish, ending your suggestion to support your party's amendment, you can do so so that the Minister can answer when he is given the floor. Please close the registration system. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to begin with the amendment, since you have given me the opportunity to refer to it in my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled - Members of the Change Movement - a long-term amendment to extend the deadlines for setting a hundred and twenty instalments to the social security institutions and tax administration. We believe that this extension is necessary, given that the time was short and problems, especially with social security institutions, because of the lack of dose determination, have already led to an extension for the deadlines up to 31 December. Already yesterday the system closed down and was chaos in the effort of accountants and citizens to join the regulation. There are many difficulties and problems in professionals and businesses, particularly in legal persons, to prepare for early integration into the regulation. We believe that the extension will be in the interests of both the public and the insurance sector, it will give the market, the professionals, the businesses - all the operators are asking for it - and it will enable the debtors to continue their activities. The situation in the real economy has not changed. Everything still moves between deterioration and incorporation. Anything that gives oxygen, we must not deprive it of anyone who wants and tries to survive the harsh conditions that remain. I would therefore ask the Minister responsible and the amendment to be informed so that, until 31 December, everyone who wishes to do so can take part in these favourable regulations can be informed. We believe that there is no point in rigidity in this case. And I would like to take this opportunity to put another proposal for thought, or even debate, on which we will be returning to a next amendment if there is no progress. We would like the Minister of Finance, in particular, to see the possibility of permanent regulation of twelve or twenty-four instalments, as well as the tax administration and the current insurance contributions, so that the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments can be supported, enabling the debtors to meet both obligations - that is, old and current debts - and to organise the effort to recover their activities for the benefit of all: both the Funds and the professionals and the business and, of course, the overall support for the recovery of the economy. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is so far no visible readiness on the crucial issue of development. In the economy, in essence, we see the continuation of SYRIZA policy, with the surpluses of 3.5% remaining, with the same tax contributions and Mr Katrugalos's pension insurance law as to keeping well, without essential care to protect the first home, with inability to finance the economy from the banks and the unsolved problem with the loans. It is not enough, Minister, only a few large investments - although they come - to boost the economy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall now come to the bill. We are discussing today a bill incorporating European Union directives into Greek legislation, namely the legislative framework on rail networks and the railway market. Our country after the ten-year crisis, indeed, as I said before, needs initiatives and actions that support the effort to develop. The rail network sector is important and, if appropriate policies are implemented, it can strengthen and exploit our country's comparative advantages in the field of transport with interconnection with other networks, such as ports, motorways, airports and integrated trans-European networks. Greece can be established as a trade and transport hub of Europe with Asian countries, while at the same time strengthening its geopolitical position. The consolidation of interoperability and safety rules, the creation of economies of scale and simplifications in approvals result in the cooperation of systems and subsystems and the improvement of interconnections between national rail networks. Improving transport within Europe and with third countries is a factor of development and concerns many sectors for each country: support for trade, production, exports, supply chain, energy, rolling stock, signalling systems. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on rail networks, which is also related to today's bill of incorporation of the three directives, began in the European Union about twenty years ago. In 2010, the then PASOK government, with its initiator and initiatives, had taken Law.3891, where along with the OSE’s restructuring and resolution plan, included several parts of the consolidation framework, establishing the Regulatory Authority for Railways. In 2012, we managed and completed the relevant directive, which had to be incorporated at the end of 2014. This Directive, 2012/34, was incorporated in 2016. It was prepared, as I said, since 2012 with the participation of the Greek Government at the Council of Ministers level and was incorporated without any modification despite SYRIZA's previous reactions as opposition. Directives 797 and 798 provide for new tasks by the European Union Agency for Railways in the areas of interoperability, vehicle approval, pre-authorisation of European Traffic Regulatory System, the known ERTMS, which concerns track-side equipment, and railway safety by issuing safety certificates. In particular, the single safety certificate shall be provided. These are the responsibilities of the independent authorities of the Member States of the RAS Member States for Greece, but from a level upwards to the European Union Railway Agency. Directive 2016/2370 concerns the strengthening of the competitiveness of rail transport in relation to other instruments, the completion of the internal market in railways and the creation of conditions of competition in the internal market with transparency. The first directive is a development of Directive 2008/57 which had previously been incorporated into PASOK governments. The second and third Directive is a development of the 2014 Directives and, more specifically, of No.4313/2014, the directive on the investigation of railway accidents, which is a precursor to the second directive today, was incorporated. In the 2014 directive, the Rail and Incidents Investigation Committee was set up, the EESC is an independent special authority, and for this principle there were reactions at the time when it had come to debate. SYRIZA then considered that the independent authorities in our country had neither operated independently nor in the public interest, and, of course, disputed that it would function and disagree radically with this choice, namely the establishment of this independent administrative authority. But, ladies and gentlemen, in today's directive, as has been tabled, the ETUC exists and operates just the same way back then. By extension, these three directives which had been posted on the Ministry's website since 21 June, having the stamp of SYRIZA, which were then government, also succeed in the press - for example, the functioning of the EDPS - and in fact the directives that he condemned before as opposition, and indeed many times too. Now, in this debate, in the committee debate, we have seen reactionaries. We appeared to be a Movement of Change because we asked for the hearing to be held by experts and representatives of bodies, agencies and workers to discuss the major issues raised and the obligations of our country since the implementation of these directives. We, ladies and gentlemen, have made the proposal to listen to bodies because we believe that we can formulate a better, clear and up-to-date view of all these issues relating to the framework for the operation of transport and, in particular, of railway networks. The Government and Census in this bill, unlike hydrocarbons, have easily agreed. But what did they agree with, ladies and gentlemen? I am referring to the official page of the Ministry of Information on the bill dated 21 June 2019, which highlights, among other things, a few proposals and phrases, such as: The adoption of the national market liberalisation policies in the past twenty years has caused an incalculable blow to the railway transport sector. Also, contrary to the lack of planning of previous governments, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has prepared and deposited an integrated plan ready for discussion, which is an incorporation of three directives into national law, which is more widely known as the fourth railway package. Other reference: This project is not an interoperable legal obligation. "We also note that our country has been a co-formulator of the fourth railway package and for the first time has managed to remove comprehensive liberalisation from the model of governance of the railway infrastructure. In addition, 'we want to stress that the final formation took place after a long period of consultation with all the parties involved' - obviously in the Ministry. So, does the House not have the right to dialogue and hearing of bodies? Something, of course, also happened in the oil bill on the part of the government. On this, then, the bill agreed that the New Democracy would be ready. According to the post, these directives were made in accordance with rules. So the previous directives weren't made by rules? Then how were they voted in 2016 by SYRIZA, as they were already ready? So, in the bill, it is clear that chaos, insolence and backwardness have been solved by SYRIZA and saved the country from unrelenting liberalisation of the rail market, Minister, and all this together with a successful consultation. Now, obviously, there are different reasons each time to agree, and in this case we have an agreement with great abrasion. But we, Minister, would like your answer because you did not answer the committee. I hope that today you will give us answers to issues relating to the implementation of these directives. What is the readiness of the political leadership and stakeholders to implement the directives? Is there a general adjustment plan with specific actions? What cost of modernising required structures and infrastructures, both in material and human capital, and how will the necessary investments be covered? Will there be losses in receipt of the Greek railway operators from the opening of the market and, if so, how will they be recovered or restricted? There are consequences for the organisations involved and how do we manage them? Do we have investments from the new private companies that entered the market to modernise the systems and rolling stock? Does the image of the rail network change? Also, rail is the most environmentally friendly means of transport. With the aid of electromobilization, its environmental footprint is greatly improved. You have expressed, Minister, in your speech to the committee your strong will to use European funds and funds to strengthen rail power. Do you have any plans to tell us whether or not the country, as you said, has remained far behind in the field of rail power? Finally, in addition, you assured us in your speech in the committee that the infrastructure of OSE will remain in the hands and control of the state and that you committed yourself to discussing in plenary, after you have been informed in detail by the relevant departments, the question of the ownership of the infrastructure, together with the implementation of private partnerships, the well-known PPPs, in the areas of maintenance and construction. We would therefore ask that you also inform us on this matter, because the memories of the sales of TRAINOSE by SYRIZA with EUR 45 million, when, of course, the EUR 300 million appeared to be little in SYRIZA when it was opposition. In addition to all this, however, there are other reasons for this bill which we are debating and which we shall vote on in this way. For example, we have the handbrake trains on 'on' today, regardless of whether the courts have canceled the strike, not why the few are strikeing at the expense of many, as you say, Minister. Although many are afflicted, few do not strike at the expense of many. They are afflicted because you are continuing with SYRIZA's policy of mocking workers when their collective agreement has not gone ahead last March. At this time we invite you to speak with the bodies and authorities involved to analyse the gaps and risks, to co-ordinate with the help and commitment of the involved a smooth transition to the new directives that we incorporate and in this direction we will be positive to participate and contribute and be with you in general on the basis of proposals that we have for the crucial transport sector, especially... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will take one or two minutes because I have used enough time for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u9	Keep going, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u10	In particular - these are elements of our proposals - for rail transport: extension of the high-speed rail network, for passengers and for goods, with a view to saving resources. Ensure interoperability and combined transport through the connection with other transport infrastructures and in particular with the largest ports in Piraeus, Thessaloniki, Patras and Igoumenitsa as a prospect. Critical is the promotion of combined transport through the functional interconnection of the high-speed rail network with these ports. Both questions and issues for discussion: Minister, would you like to tell us where the network is to be completed by Patras? I would also like to put it today in plenary - and I have put it in committee - the question of the railway link between Epirus and the integration into the trans-European networks of the Patras - Agrini - Arta - Yannina, as well as the connection of the port of Igoumenitsa with Volos and the rest of the rail network. These sections were incorporated before 2004 into the trans-European networks and were then dedicated. This design, Minister, must go ahead because it creates an integrated, combined network with the port of Igoumenitsa, the Egnatia Road and the Ionian Road, with significant positive effects on production, trade and transport and also on the local, regional and national economy. The achievement of these objectives obviously requires specific commitments and answers that I hope you will give us today, Minister, since you have avoided responding to the committee. Finally, we are voting on this draft law on the incorporation of the three directives and the other provisions. But the problems are ahead of us for the internal networks, the means and the technologies they need, for the accidents which are unfortunately many and serious. All of this must be addressed with comprehensive planning and the implementation of the necessary projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u11	The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the House has debated many times and has decided to incorporate a number of European Union directives that serve to shape these new areas of profitability for monopolistic groups and for transport. In recent decades throughout the capitalist world, this trend has emerged in the gradual dismantling of any state monopolistic enterprises, such as energy, communications, transport and elsewhere, by privatising any business. This came as a result of the huge capital overcompensation and the need to find new profitable outlets for capital. The main aim of the policy of the European Union and of the railways is that of complete liberalisation through the body of directives on the creation of a single market for railways, to which the monopolistic groups of the European Union can unnecessarily invest. In this choice of the European Union and the bourgeoisie of our country, all governments are helping to facilitate multi-faceted capitalist development in the transport sector, including the railways, which is the main factor in creating the model of Greece - a transit centre. What is going to be a solution to the transposition of the three Directives of the European Union? Does it come to facilitate the development of railway infrastructure and rail transport to meet the needs of our people? The aim is to eliminate any obstacles to the complete concession of rail transport under the terms and rules of the monopoly groups. The liberalisation of rail transport has been promoted by a wide range of European directives and railway policy packages aimed at gradually separating infrastructure and use and gradually removing all barriers to the implementation of the single rail market. Initially, Directive 440/1991 was promoted, as we said in the committee, which spoke about the accounting separation between infrastructure and exploitation, which at first instance was based on the main objective of liberalisation. Next essential step were the directives, known as the European Union's first rail package, which liberated cross-border freight transport into a part of the transport network, known as the trans-European freight network, which represents 50% of the European Union's rail networks and 80% of the total traffic. It follows a set of directives, known as the European Commission's second railway package, which introduces full liberalisation of all freight transport in the European Union from the beginning of 2007. Next step, the third railway package, where the liberalisation of international passenger transport has been introduced since 2010. Now we have the fourth package. These are the directives on the creation of a single European railway area, which in essence integrate all the previous directives. Interoperability conditions are laid down, technical harmonisation, with certain exceptions, in general compliance with those Directives. The liberalization policy recommends the creation of a single market for railway activities to which the monopolistic groups of the European Union can unnecessarily invest. At European Union level, rail is controlled by a small group of monopolist groups. Among them are the former German and French State monopolies, which, after the liberalisation of the railways, play a dominant role in European transport at European Union level. It is a myth that liberation creates great advantages for the public and the people. The evolution of rail tariffs in various countries of the European Union in relation to the position of allegedly reducing prices for ticket due to competition in a liberalised market is quite contrary. Invoice increases in EU countries are between 15% and 40%. This development clearly illustrates the absolute inability of the system to satisfy the people's needs. As a JRC, we have indicated that, even when they operate under a monopoly regime, they do not offer services at a low price, because they actually exist to ensure the needs of business groups. In addition, state property smashed employees' wages and rights, increased far-reachingly. And, of course, the situation will deteriorate further with the complete liberalisation you are legislating on. The remaining working and wage rights of workers on the railways enter the Protestant of competition, guaranteeing the profits of business groups, with a sharp fall in the price of the labour force. We asked the Minister on several occasions what his position is for the signing of the collective agreement of workers and we did not get a reply - nor now, of course, he is on the phone - and we did not receive a reply as well to the fairness of the workers who were retired from 2011 to 2014, despite the judicial decisions to which the amount of compensation has not been paid, which has been properly paid since 2014. This, of course, was not accepted by SYRIZA either. Transport liberalisation policy, European Union policy, both for the New Democracy and for SYRIZA, for PASOK and for the other forces that are with the European Union. Yes, gentlemen, you want to hide, but joy doesn't leave you! Because you have a common strategy, this capitalist development, which you all invest in in a very good way. Besides, that's why you get the credit. It is a real scandal to grant the monopoly capital to exploit these colossal investments paid by the Greek people, either through direct public spending or through the divestment of the assets of the OSE, which in the end is popular property. The directives promote the strategy of the European Union and the ruling class of our country for the liberalisation of rail transport. They increase the operational capacity of companies to operate in Greece and reduce costs for them, such as single standards, certifications and others. The goal is to transfer goods on the axis of Patras - Athens - Thessaloniki - Idomeni. These will be the subject of competition for large groups to promote the single rail network. The network constructed by resources from the Greek people will be used and designed in principle for the returning freight movements from ports to Europe. That is why the OSCE is still in the public interest to meet these needs. The network, which will be maintained and expanded, exploited by business groups, will be used by the network. In the case of rolling stock, it is once again facilitated to use it on networks other than national networks, so as to facilitate groups in the European Union. The transport project is fragmented in many different companies on the income lines. There will be no improvement for the people from the liberalisation of the railways. Everywhere there will be an increase in tickets and, of course, in hours of no peak, we will have a reduction in routes, because most of all it will be the profit. As we have said in committee, even on the subway, despite the commitment that it will be every four minutes, we see in the hours of no peak eight, nine and ten more minutes. Winning from the incorporation of these directives will be the groups that will invest in rail transport, the transport chains and, of course, all those who want Greece as a transport hub. They will be the workers in the industry and the Greek people who will see the price rise in tickets. The combined fulfilment of the transport needs of the workers cannot go hand in hand with the safeguarding of capitalist profits and the Euromono street, as the ruling class itself has chosen. In capitalism fast transport burdens the worker as a passenger and as a taxpayer. They are based on the intensity of the exploitation of workers and operate often only where monopolies are beneficial. In its proposal, the JRC notes that the coverage of combined people's needs for universal, cheap, quality, safe movements and transport requires infrastructures and means that operate in general with social property, with centralised design and labour control. Transport can only function as a whole with the parallel ownership of the social property of central planning and labour control as a whole of the aggregated means of production. The central planning of the economy, supported by the JRC, prioritises mass transport, in relation to atomic, land fixed tracks for the continental part of the country. It designs transport on the basis of the combined and complementary action of all forms of transport, aimed at the rapid and cheap movement of persons and products, energy savings and environmental protection, the planned development to eliminate regional imbalances, the full control of the defence and security of the State itself. A prerequisite for achieving the objectives for the development of transport is the design of the infrastructure concerned - ports, airports, railway stations, roads - and the transport industry. Only in this way can the satisfaction of the ever-expanded social needs and the liberation of the productive forces of society, which are now narrowing under these production relationships, which is, above all, the profit of the business group. The JRC notes that the issue is not only an economic one but also a socio-political one. In other words, it requires a break in power and overthrow in order to impose the abolition of monopolies and large capitalist property. And this bill shows the two strategies - and here it appeared the full agreement with the bill of the rest of the forces - one of the JRC, as we briefly presented it, which aims to satisfy the needs of our people for rapid, safe, cheap transport, with full rights of workers and, on the other, capitalist development, this common strategy, which connects you all, despite any individual differences, that is, the profit of business groups. We are voting against the bill and on the principle and on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u13	We continue with the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Col. Vasiliardos Villardos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Greek Solution in the House is not to judge the government, the opposition or the other parties. Its aim is to provide its services to the citizens of the country, protecting their interests as best they can. All of us are aware of the common sense and, in no case, conflicts with the aim of projecting or voting. We know, of course, that the draft laws tabled are only debated in detail in committee and in plenary, since these are usually from outside, just as they have been ratified by Parliament, without changing a single phrase. However, when the government with its hundred and fifty - eight seats, is able to vote whatever it wants, without asking anyone. However, it is our duty to be responsible, however much as you do not pay attention to our opinions, comments and proposals. The three European directives now, which have come for ratification in Parliament today, are part of the fourth railway package, with the aim of removing the obstacles to the completion of the single European railway area. Their theoretical aim is to make rail transport more competitive and interoperable, i.e. compatible with each other at European Union level, with common rules, quality of services and safety for all countries. They are therefore transferring the responsibilities of the national states to the European Union Agency for Interoperability, namely the approval of vehicles and train traffic control systems - known as ERTMS - and safety by issuing certificates. However, the directives also introduce two major changes, which are the following: firstly, the passenger market is liberalised, which means that it will no longer be a monopoly. What this means to small countries with weak businesses is not difficult to understand. Secondly, the independence of the manager's core tasks is ensured and infrastructural governance rules are put in place, so as to establish strong competition in the sector. In the Committee on Trade we analysed as many articles as we could by asking the relevant Minister questions. So there is no reason to repeat them, how much more so when we are sure that we will not get an answer, and not a single party will change, since colonies never ask their metropolitans. We will therefore refer here to the structure of the Greek market, as far as the railways are concerned, which has changed with the coming of our memorials at the expense of almost everything in our country. In simple terms, the memorials that will continue to exist until Greece's ownership regime changes, usually impose on us the fragmentation of public enterprises and then their sale at degrading prices. The use of the word "privateisation" by invoking the so-called liberal ideology, since what is happening mainly in Greece is the state-runisation of public enterprises by other states. For example, OTE acquired by the State German ‘TELEKOM’, the fourteen profitable airports by the State-owned German ‘FRAPORT’ with an incredibly scandalous colonial contract, the port of Piraeus by the Chinese ‘COSCO’ and the ‘TRAINOSE’ by the Italian State ‘FSI’. Starting with the RAS, as regards the rail network structure in Greece, it was established in 2010 with the FEK from 4-10-2010 on the restructuring, resolution and development of the OSE Group and TRINOSE, when the Memorandums began. They are no longer controlled by the government or by any other Greek administrative authority but by the European Union. I'm filing the first four pages of the FEK in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The companies that were the subject of the FEK arrangement were OSE and ‘TRAINOSE’. The OSE, the manager of the national railway infrastructure along with the following subsidiaries: First, with GEOSE, which holds the fixed and rolling stock, and went to the public and there in the Supreme Court. Secondly, with the "ERGOSE" which manages construction projects and, thirdly, with the EDPS, the railway infrastructure manager. Furthermore, the ‘TRAINOSE’, which rents a thousand hundred and sixty units of rolling stock, i.e. machines, wagons, platforms, etc. by GIAOSE, paying it annually for EUR 4 billion, sold off on the Italian railways, FSI, in September 2017, compared with EUR 45 million. In fact, Greece was forced to sell ‘TRAINOSE’ to close the European Commission’s investigation into State aid started in 2011 for memoranda. The investigation concerned the debt of TRAINOSE to OSE of EUR 692 million, which was considered State aid. In order to sell, therefore, ‘TRAINOSE’ has removed the OSE’s claim against it by charging the OSE’s own funds, thus the Greek taxpayers and adding to the capital of ‘TRAINOSE’ as a special reserve. I'm filing the confirmation in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, in 2013, the Railway Safety Company, the SCISY, owned by the Ultrasurfactor, was founded. This company, which is the sole accredited body by the RA for the maintenance of railway equipment with eleven repair bases, was sold in April 2019 to the Italian now ‘TRAINOSE’ compared with 22 million euros with the approval of the Competition Committee. How it is possible for the Competition Committee to approve a monopoly is something that we cannot answer. We apologise for the above complexity, but we thought it necessary to understand how the OSE, such as "Olympian" recently or PPC, has been dissolved in one of them, apparently to be looted by those who claim to have saved us by safeguarding what we have and do not have. An Italian State company, therefore, ‘TRAINOSE’, having been effectively subsidised with the EUR 692 million due to the OSE and cancelled against only EUR 45 million granted for the acquisition, has the monopoly on the provision of railway services in Greece with the wishes of the Competition Committee. In addition, it is subsidized with 50 million per year by the State to serve the barren lines, when something like this was never approved in Greece, but instead the European Union was accused of state aid from the OSE. These 50 million are given to a 'TRAINOSE' covering a much smaller rail network, i.e. without the Peloponnese network which has been inactive in recent years. To compare, the much larger OSE had to cover a larger network without grants, but with losses, the coverage of which by the state was considered by our European friends and partners to be a contributory subsidy, while the EUR 50 million for Italians was not. Therefore, Italy ‘TRAINOSE’ has operated since the beginning, i.e. with a net profit of EUR 3,3 million and a equity of EUR 566,51 million, which only cost EUR 45 million. He paid, in other words, for the 1 euro that he won 15 cents from the first day, apparently in the health of the sucklers, as one would simply say, how much more so when the services currently provided by the Italians are even worse. I'm filing the confirmation in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we are sure that any future investments will be made with the European packages that Greece is entitled to, as is the case with the "FRAPORT" regarding Thessaloniki airport. Regarding what is happening internationally now, in England, state rails have been broken down in the past after the adoption of extreme neoliberalism and then sold. However, the ‘TRAINOSE’, the ‘RAIL TRACK’, went bankrupt and re-stated. It was judged on the safety it provided, or rather on the grounds that it did not provide. In its communication in 2001, she apologied for accidents that had cost the lives of fifty two people between 1997 and 2001. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The infrastructure in England has now been transferred to a state-owned company, NETWORK RAIL, the customers of which are the various private passenger companies. In complete contrast, however, Mr Karamanlis in the Committee on Trade last week referred to PPPs, that is, in cooperation with the private sector, with the public sector, in the infrastructure. In other words, to affect the infrastructure, while with the other problematic arrangements we have already mentioned, the manager, who is independent of the State, on his own responsibility for deciding - Article 21(8) - on the appropriateness of the structural subsystem - Article 16 - to charge the criterion on what the market can withstand in Article 82, what market truth? The monopoly? - impose very low fines, Article 79 of Directive 2016/798 and so on. We hope not to get out real, but all that sounds like the right recipe for a future tragedy. In America now, the main company, ‘AMTRACK’, is public, while private companies are active on limited and fragmented routes. The state is all the advanced railways around the world, such as the very good French 'SNCF', the Italian 'FSI', the German 'DEUTSCHE BAHN', the Japanese 'JAPAN RAILWAYS GROUP' and all the others. In Luxembourg, in the capital of tax evasion, rail is free of charge, so there is no question of privatisation. So we wonder where the various probable reformers in Greece learn from. Finally, we do not see why FSI would invest in transport and serve Chinese companies in Greece and not in its own port of Trieste where COSCO is also present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u15	We are closing the speeches with Mr. George Logiadis from the Mera25 party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, thank you. Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what trains are we talking about in Greece? The trains that pass and leave? The trains we can't get on? For all these opportunities we're given and we're losing them? Which networks to compare? The Greek networks with the "TGV" or the magnetic trains that develop up to five hundred kilometres of speed? I wonder, therefore, how many of us here in the Chamber have used a train in Greece, while when we go abroad it is the easiest, most direct, most environmentally friendly means of transport. All the previous governments have unfortunately enjoyed and sold to the bankrupt Italian railway agency 'TRAINOSE' for only EUR 43 million, which even the rails are worthless. We in Greece built a bridge in Rio - Antirio in order to unite Western Greece. Why didn't we anticipate a rail line - since the port of Patras is next door - which would help to further the economy of western Greece and the interoperability that we are discussing today and the interconnectivity and all that? But let us now talk about the law we are called upon to incorporate into Greek legislation, which includes four parts, as we know, concerning interoperability, security, the opening up of the internal market and the fourth part of other general provisions. However, first of all, I would like to see the development of rail deregulation and their privatization, so that we can see where this harmonisation we are talking about and what we are about to decide today: In 1991 we had the first railway package, which was the break-up of national railways in parts. In 2004, we had the second rail package, which was the steps towards rail interoperability within the European Union. And 2010 was the third railway package, which essentially introduced the opening up of international markets to competition, including the opening up of internal transport within a European Union country on international lines. In 2016 the fourth railway package, the directive we are now called upon to incorporate into Greek law, the main points that it brings are two: First, the creation of a central body that will be the direct regulator within the European Union of the European Union Agency for Railways. Upgrading this organization to a direct regulator of the technical and safety standards in each country - a member of the European Union - two tasks which have been carried out so far by the national services of the Member States. The European Union Agency for Railways is invited to ensure the interoperability of the European rail network and material. We are impressed by the reasons for this and make it necessary to interoperability of railways within the European Union, as set out in the directive, to open up the market and to create economies of scale for railway undertakings. We, as a PART25, stand by the fact that the interoperability and safety of European railways are a positive step in our fight for European and European union. On the second point, the opening up of the commercial exploitation of infrastructure to other companies is now being liberalised and other companies from the European Union will be able to exploit the network in any country - member of the European Union. We stress here that the European Union directive provides for the possibility of a vertical or horizontal model, the first meaning that the company managing the infrastructure will have the exploitation, and the second refers to distinct companies. The Greek Government proposes in the draft law the horizontal model, supporting private individuals. The international experience, however, has shown - in the United Kingdom, Australia, America and even Belgium - the disastrous consequences for railways and for society when they are privatised. So we see in this historical development that the principle governing these directives over time is not, above all, the further consolidation that will bring about a pan-European network, nor the protection of the environment through the reinforcement of railways, particularly the delivery of railways to the European Union, to individuals. We, as Mera25, DiEM25, as an integral part of the first European Diem25 movement, have tabled to the public debate and, of course, to the recent European elections to the new green agreement on Europe. This distinguishes us from all other sides in here. One of the main policies proposed by the new green agreement for Europe is the investment programme in the green transition, amounting to EUR 500 billion a year for five years. This investment programme will finance the green transition to energy, transport, industry, agriculture and, in this regard, the interoperability of the European rail network, our pan-European proposal for a green transition to transport includes upgrading of railways to a peak. The railway is one of the safest, economically and mainly environmentally friendly means of transport for passengers and goods. The overall social benefit from the operation of the railways is much greater than any operating cost, as rail is an entirely means of transport that is dispersing external economies throughout society. We believe that large-scale investments must be made on the rail network and material, but not with a stated aim of opening up the market, that is to say, to goods, which will eliminate external economies by incorporating them into the profits of private enterprises, such as the spirit, that is to say, the principle of this directive which we are calling on to vote on today. Therefore, as MARA25, as a DiEM25, we are voting against at first, but we are positive about the parties on interoperability and common security rules, even if they are for wrong reasons. In principle, therefore, we say 'no'. In Articles 1 to 52 we say 'yes', in Articles 53 to 81 we say 'yes', in the third part of Article 82 we say 'no', of course, and in Article 83 we say 'yes'. I would like to stress here, since the Ministry of Transport is here, that I as a Cretan I would like to have had in Crete and a railroad which, as they have shown, would help very much in the development of my island. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Well, the process will go as follows: I will give the floor to the Minister to say about some legislative improvements and to testify. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos has then asked for the floor. Mr. Varoufakis, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u18	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u19	Do you want Mr. Velopoulos to talk to the four Members and then talk to him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u20	After the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u21	Okay. In the end, therefore. So we will then go to the four colleagues - Mr Simopoulos, Mr Famelos, Mr Arsenis and Mr Kotsos - and then the Minister will speak and we will enter the circle of parliamentary representatives with intervention and the Deputy Minister Kefaloyannis. Well, Mr. Karamanlis, you have the floor for the legislature.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. After Mrs Perka's good remark we are making a legislative improvement: in point B, paragraph 4 of Article 82, in internal paragraph 2 of Article 7c, the words ‘different infrastructure managers, including parties’ are replaced by the words ‘Contracting Parties’. I think that this way, Mrs Perka - and we will agree - is quite clear that the infrastructure remains, that is, the OSE under state control.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u23	The President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. You know, this morning, I was with New Democracy colleagues at the airport flying on the plane. I was trying to explain to them that in the end privatisations are not for any disease and all bullshit. They have made their reform policy, privatizations. You made a big mistake, because as a businessman I know very well that privatisation does not cure the problem. The problem of Greek railways is not a narrow Greek problem and what concerns me, Mr Ministers, is that you do not see it as a wider problem. The trade war and economic war are taking place for the control of transport. And for him. You forget that you are talking about rail in our country, when you forget about the 'travel of silk', for example, which is a freight rail road to Greece. We're a gateway. So when you hand over the keys to the Italians, it means losing a devastating geostrategic, geo-economic advantage. And, of course, because I have always been trying with arguments to speak, at some point in the Greek Parliament we have to learn to say what really happened over the last hundred years. Since Trikoupi’s time, unfortunately, the Greek railroad has remained the same. Why'd he stay the same? I wish I had a predecessor to prove to New Democracy why he remained the same. Because the distance from Suez to get the goods by boat to Hamburg or Rotterdam was about twenty-one days in the past. The distance from Piraeus or Thessaloniki is one day. This had to make the New Democracy and the PASOK, which ruled thirty years, understood that rail and commercial means of transport had to be Greece's number one gun from the trade gate, China. Who didn't allow us to? Why don't you tell the truth? But when they win 200 billion and 300 billion from the containers and containers, the Germans and the Dutch slowly failed to let Greece make a railroad. That's your problem, that you don't understand why these things happen. And because I'm at least clear about what I'm saying, I'm gonna say something very simple. Ask a shipowner - who is doing well with the shipowners here, you have Mr. Marinakis your friend - how much is the journey from Suez to Rotterdam, how long it's been. Now the boats are faster. In the past it was much slower. So imagine, Greece would control the port of Piraeus, the port of Thessaloniki and come to and collaps the ships, ships and transport and take the goods by train to ten hours in Munich, Berlin, Central Europe, Eastern Europe. So I don't understand that you didn't realize that you even went bankrupt with this big gun. It's a very big, huge weapon, transport in the global economy. And I start like this because the antiquated railroad shows something. It shows there was a lukewarm. In my view, I cannot know that, others know and not know it, you or the PASOK or the others who have ruled that the railroad was antiquated, so that at some point, after it went bankrupt - otherwise, I will tell you how it went - the OSE would be sold against a lentil to the Italians. What's the worst? The JRC, like our rapporteur, said very clearly: all serious countries have state transport companies. All of them! Even the Austrian company, which you handed over the traffic from the Triumph, is a state-owned company. What are you coming here saying that the state cannot be an entrepreneur? Who told you that the state can't be an entrepreneur? Indirectly or directly, it may be, as long as there are brains and not politics and policies that are slave to orders. That's the reality. To want to serve the Germans, the Italians, the French, to tell us. You can tell us that we serve the international interests and not the interests of the Greek citizen. Let's talk about this, too. As to how the OSCE was charged, we should talk a little bit about what happened. 70% of the 11 billion debts were created by the Greek governments themselves. So listen to the numbers that are relentless. I got them from the OSCE reports, not from anywhere else. Search and find them! For decades, it has not been the state - in other words, you, who ruled the state, the PASOK and the New Democracy - the money they had to pay and were about: When there were elections, you ran the world with the planes and the trains to vote. But you never paid the state or your party the trains you used to carry your passengers, your fans. And that's not all. Money on the basis of agreements with the European Union, co-financing the modernisation and infrastructure of the OSE, has never been given. But you immediately gave it to the 'FRAPORT'. In Thessaloniki, the "FRAPORT" today builds either from the over-profits it has made or from the co-financed projects of the European Union. Couldn't Greece do that? Couldn't we do that as a country? Don't we have the right technocrats? Anybody you can put, if you give him 10 euros, he can build an airport. And I hear the neo-democratics at the airport of Thessaloniki say: 'Oh, what a good thing the 'FRAPORT' has done. The 'FRAPORT', gentlemen, did not do so. You did so, with your failure you practically went bankrupt at airports and sold fictitiously. And SYRIZA did it. That's the truth. Money for investments in rolling stock for the OSE, for which they had signed programme agreements, was never given! The OSE report says so. Money due under the obligations arises for a public service, i.e. the subsidisation of horticultural lines, reduced or free tickets for specific categories of citizens, has never been given. Let me give you an example. The good colleague from Mera25 said about the connection from the western Peloponnese to the continent. So, what's simpler than that? You did a work in Rio - Antirio, you gave it to a French company, - the French are exploiting it, over 1 billion profits have been made by people for so many years who use it - and you did not make a railroad. I don't understand your logic. You know, the Abdirites had done that, if you went a little bit into history, with the waters they carried, but they didn't have the taps. In the end they made the taps, they didn't have the water. You did a bridge and you didn't make a railroad. Not to mention Florina, our Macedonia, our Macedonia, Thrace, who have no serious railway. That's the reality, and it's been a decades ago. The Italian State railways therefore, SPI, a State holding company managing the infrastructure and services on the Italian rail network. We couldn't make a state-owned N.W. company. - SYRIZA - I don't know, all together - to manage the railroad in Greece. So, are the Italians smarter? Are the Germans smarter? Are the Austrians smarter? Are all smarter? Hey, it's not! OSE just had to go bankrupt, to come the Chinese to the port, to Piraeus, to come the Italians, to come the Austrians and all the super-profit to fruit them and not the Greek state. That's your crime. In other words, what is privatized is good. It's not like that! It can't be like that! Not everyone else can have state-owned companies and we can't have state-owned companies. It can't be done! Good containers: ‘RAIL CARGO LOGISTICS’, ‘GOLD AIR’. A consortium of Greek ‘GOLD AIR’ with a State-owned company of Austria. I'm talking about the one in the cargo boxes on the Triumph. It's a state-owned Austrian company. You handed over the transport keys to an Austrian state company. These are incredible things from a government that wants to make money for the benefit of the Greek people. I won't say the other thing. Two Romanian companies, indirectly funded by the state of Romania, want to take pieces from Greece. The Romanians, guys! Colleagues, the Romanians, you understand? Romania which, twenty-five years ago, had Chuchescu and hunger, poverty, and I don't know what else. And now all of a sudden we have come to the point of buying off the Greek railways indirectly state-owned Romanian companies. And we're not ashamed! And that's not all. It is also the 'COSCO' at the port of Piraeus. Do you know why the 'COSCO' came to the port of Piraeus? Has anyone said that in here why he came here? Because the Italians kicked them out of there! Because then all the branded Italian companies, who have a heavy industry, reacted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u25	Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u26	Yeah, and that's why it happened. Prosecutor intervened. I have the forensics in my hands, Mr. Russopoulou. I'll get her to your office. There's a case-file. Loss of billions of smuggled goods revenues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u27	They claimed three companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u28	I'm telling you one more thing. The Italians reacted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u29	They were begged by the Italians to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u30	Yeah, yeah, I know. You're kneeling.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u31	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u32	Listen a little. I don't know if the Italians were begging, but today the Italians buy through a state-owned company our OSE who went bankrupt. I agree that the Italians were begging them for their knees, for their knees, for their children, for their vows in the Virgin Mary the Great. Then why are you selling to the Italians, to the state of Italy, our OSE? What for? Let me get this straight. Who bankrupt OSE? Are you going to say it in here? I agree that the OSE cannot. OSE went bankrupt. Who has been ruling Greece for decades now? They ruled New Democracy and PASOK. That's the truth! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's the truth. You bankrupt him and you're selling him now! That's what you're telling me. To accept what you're saying. You're right. The Italians were begging. The Italians, however, have heavy industry and take state subsidies and do not close their companies, such as the Scaramaga Shipyards. This is how it is done, Mr President-in-Office. When you're subsidising a state-owned company that's strategic, you're doing everything you can to keep strangers from getting it from you. We gave it all up. The Italians receive an indirect state grant, as did the Germans with "THOMAS COOK", they retained the "CONDOR". Who's gonna pay the money? As far as we are concerned, the European Union will pay for it. The paper 'HANDELSBLATT' had the whole article that indirectly they will take funds from the European Union to pay the state company theirs. You don't dare do that. Once you're pressed a little, you say: we're selling. Why sell? Let's go to the rest. Five million containers each year are moved from Greece. Five million containers! Do you know how much money it is? Fifteen billion euros. Who's gonna take it? Not Greece. The Italian, the Austrian, their state. Not us! Fifteen billion euros! Conservative report by experts who made it and delivered it to us. It's 15 billion. How much do we get with what you did? Nobody knows. We don't know how much we're going to get - we might not get anything - and we're giving them 15 billion from the first year. What a business demon that is! Awesome business demon in New Democracy, PASOK and the others. If you had your own business, you'd have shut it down by the first day. Lucetto, they'd be bored. Reduction of freight work of Thessaloniki - Identified. Listen to the other request SYRIZA made. For two months, Minister, some of the people you want to take to mainland Greece - the poachers - had shut down the railroad in northern Greece. Do you know what happened to the carriage of goods? So suddenly imagine, because you're transferring them to Kilkis, you're transferring them to the Euzoons, to Larissa to close roads, railroads, the poachers, which you so much love, because you're multicultural, as the Prime Minister of the country says, you're against Nativism, suicide, that is, the Greeks, Mr. Simopoulos, who you want to talk later. That's what the Prime Minister said here in a speech against Nativism. I can also give you his speech. So if they shut down transport, what loss of revenue will we have? Huge. There are a number of issues, therefore, which we need to see a little seriously. We're going to the bill now, which is on paper. It is a Community directive of the European Union. We are afraid that our European friends will not punish us. They love us so much that when they want to take something, they say "we will punish you, we will take your head". And here all of a sudden, instead of just taking our head, they take our body together. Listen: the right of a railway company based in a Member State to offer services anywhere in the European Union is guaranteed. Full release of freight transport. Here I would like to ask all of you: If I, the state of Austria or China or Italy, control the containers, another state controls the port - there is Marinakis Mayor, it is probably a substitute, is not his presence there - is the 'COSCO' state, who tells me that this whole route is not at the expense of my national interests? Who tells me I'm not losing money? How do we control all trade coming or leaving? It's not checked. Hence the "monkey" products that the government finds recently and very well make the Ministry and collects them all to finish this story. But you're making a mistake. You, the tooth hurts, I cut my head! Instead of going to the source, to the port, my Minister, to open the containers, why don't you have no employees there, see what smuggling and trade is going on in there, what are you doing? Take the poor guy down there in the street and sells the shoes - badly sells them - instead of going to the source, the big smuggler, hitting the containers. The 15 billion euros from the embargo there are coming, not from the one or the two or the five you're under arrest. That's what you need to do if you want to hit the problem at its root. It also says the bill that groups can invest. Let's say, Minister, that you've heard it since the First Serres, and it says: 'Groups! A, investment!’. But they're not investments, they're state-owned groups. It's Germany, it's France, it's Italy, it's state monopolies. State monopolies! Greece cannot have a state monopoly. It can't be done. The only monopoly Greece can have, Minister, is to have a New Democracy and a PASOK for fifty years. The country's governance is monopolistic. Unfortunately, it's not your fault, it's your voter. What can we do, though? Progressive freight lines in Patras, Athens, Thessaloniki. The object, he says, of competition for large groups. In Article 7.1.e, you are essentially telling us that we must ask the European Union to make a network of Peloponnese or a new connection between Epirus or Crete. I should like to ask the European Union if it allows me to network the Peloponnese or whether the Volos port connection will be relaunched, for example. What are these things? It's written 7.1.e. Can the plans be blocked, Minister? Let me tell you something, Minister, to connect the first thing I said, that you didn't do all of this accidentally? You charged the OSCE to lose a gun. Tell me a port worldwide - because Mr Russopoulos responded, which I very much appreciate - which did not have a railway, such as the port of Piraeus. The largest port in the country never had a railroad, it had no rail link. And that was random, wasn't it? The biggest port! Why should the Greeks not wake up. In Africa every port has rail connections. We never had in Piraeus, in the largest port in the country! That was a failure - I know, brain? - someone who's been ruling for a hundred years. They never realized that the railroad must go to the ship. They didn't get it. Fortunately you, New Democracy, and you did the work in the Triumph, as you did, slutty, that is. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] Mr President, I ask for a little more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u33	Not an unlimited time. I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I now come to statements by Greek politicians from the United States of Greeks. Pappa Declarations in New York in 2016. Metarakis statements next year. They are talking about large investment from the United States: 'the money comes'. Adonis Georgiadis: “Many investments come from the USA in 2019.” But not even one has been done so far, because all of America's investments are sinking in the Atlantic! Until they come, they sink! Not one euro, not one dollar. What's the worst? The only investment that has been made - and I say it here - was the secret meeting of a New Democracy Minister for the two casinos American companies took. And that's not an investment, gentlemen. Casinos are not an investment in Greece. I'm telling you this because Pompeo has come here and I see us scapegoats of our Greek residents. Mr. Russoul, you're laughing. It seemed the next day. Turks enter Syria. They're going to invade Syria. This is our country's big problem. We don't understand what toys are playing. We're out of place and time. We expect America to solve the Cyprus issue, from the Germans to solve the refugee problem, from the Americans to protect the Aegean. Then what are you doin', gentlemen? Leave the keys of the government to America and Germany and end the story. This can't go on. As for your German friends, "BMW" invests one billion dollars last month and "AIRBUS" further $2.5 billion. So if you wait from German, French, English and Portuguese to save you, I fear that some of you may be rescued by taking off helicopters or planes in Paris and London, as most of us have done in the past, but we who stay here to fight, will be slaughtered like lambs. So I say we wake up, see what's coming, because it's been a long time, and you all know it. You're thinking about it, you're afraid, but you don't act, you don't work. There's no action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u35	We are entering the four fellow speakers. Mr Simopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was on the plane with some political leader. I don't have to say his name. When our debate on the plane stopped, I thought that I did not mention to him that since the elections began to take place by universal suffrage, the dream of prevalence, according to the Marxist theory, towards which I see to be inclined, of the popular revolution, fade away. Because I see that with a storm, essentially, against the free economy and the way the economy has been moving for decades around the world, it is trying to create impressions mainly against the New Democracy. I now come to the main issue. The time before we had agriculture as our priority has passed. We've been through tourism. Then came our energy, our energy reserves and mild forms of energy. And now is the time to move on to combined transport. All four previous areas that I mentioned to you have to do with our country's position are to do with what we used to call 'the best plot on earth'. This process started just before 2004 with the Ennaia Road mainly. Since 2004, intensifiedly, it has continued with our roads, with our ports, with airports, with projects of extremely important importance, with projects which, because of the economic crisis, were stopping and reopening, with projects which in one way or another have been completed. Along with these plays a major role of natural and privatization, the concession of the ports to 'COSCO' and of course Thessaloniki, where we know the reactions of the then opposition. It is time, indeed, to move on to the development of the railways. Indeed, as was said before in this Chamber, we were very far behind. The Partnership Agreement which is running now and certainly also the next European corresponding programme will include the possibility of integrating many railway projects. Efforts can be made. And this effort is about connecting our ports and it is an effort that will bring about the linking of, for example, the commercial port of Kavala with the Toxites, the port of Thessaloniki, obviously, with the railway axis of Athens - Thessaloniki - Alexandroupolis and many other similar projects. If we do not liberalise rail transport, however, we will in no way be able to take advantage of this whole framework which we have fortunately created, despite the uncertainness, over the last few years, all the governments. At the same time, we must quickly modernise our framework for combined transport. Our country, with the liberalisation of rail transport as well as a completely modern framework for combined transport, the famous logos, can create tens of thousands of good new jobs. As far as northern Greece is concerned, its role can be more important than all of Greece. Northern Greece can play the role for south-eastern Europe played by the Netherlands for the north-west. With its ports, the vertical axes of Ennatia and Ennatia, it can carry goods even up to the Baltic Sea. There is no alternative but to liberalise rail transport. That's what today's bill does. It takes other steps. I am sure that today's government of Mitsotakis will proceed in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u37	Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of combined transport and the means of fixed track is the fact that it has more than twenty years of European policy, but also the change of economic and social functions. Of course, in our country - previous speakers have said so - the issues of fixed tracks and railways have deteriorated. And, indeed, it is strange, Minister, that the followers of the 'Mixed Europe' s motto, on railways, have taken a completely anti-European policy and have dismantled the railways. Because the country was probably making rail lines out the years of the New Democracy and PASOK governments, rather than putting them on. And that is a reality and you must admit it and tell the Greek citizens sometime too. In fact, the interesting thing is that the railways and the means of fixed tracks were degraded before the memorandum, so that when both the memorandum came and the bankruptcy you created, there was nothing left. The reality, however, is not only about European, if you want, regularity, but also about the great needs of climate change now in the issues of our lives, which let me tell you that the government is good for slogans - defoliation - from New York, but we hear nothing about politics. I am also obliged to put that in today's debate. Climate change, then, and the great change that we need to make in energy issues, obliges us to make such major changes to increase, namely, transport work, transport and freight work, by means of fixed tracks, by means of electricity and by rail. The SYRIZA proposal and the previous government's proposal were, therefore, a nearly tripling of the transport project from the means of fixed track, which represented the national energy and climate plan, an increase of the two hundred ninety million tonne-kilometres we had in 2015 in about sixteen million tonne-kilometres of fixed track work. This has also led to the strengthening of urban public transport, as well as rail transport and freight transport. You understand that these changes modulate the country's energy balance, they greatly improve climate-related issues, while at the same time they also give a very large rate of service and social and commercial operation. We, for our part, had made great changes in the sector, such as the expansion of the suburban, such as the electrical movement of the line Athens - Thessaloniki - Idomeni. Of course, what we need to see is what we do from now on. That's why I took the floor. So in your governance, Minister, we see that, contrary to both the climate need and the environment, but also with the need for productive reconstruction in our country, the plans of the fixed tracks have been stopped and nothing is heard. Nor did the Prime Minister hear anything at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. And this is a great question of Thessaloniki and northern Greece and Macedonia. What happened, for example, to the plan of the Balkan connections in northern Greece? We hear too much, which we do not understand exactly. Will it go on - and you must expressly say this here in the Chamber - the plan of the Egnatia railway? Will Thessaloniki, Kavala and Alexandroupolis connect with the ports to the Danube? Is there this plan on your own agenda? Will the Balkan connections proceed, which if I'm not mistaken, had it started to grow with our own government? The question arises from Western Macedonia as well as from the Balkan connections and we want answers. At the same time, we want you to answer whether Greece will be a node for both energy and transport and trade. Because the unilateral foreign policy, which you have taken the initiative to implement, amend the country's geopolitical alliances and weakens the country in both energy and transport issues. Will Greece be node on the road of silk? What position do you take against Mr Pompeo's negative position, which he has made here in Greece and the Balkans on this issue with regard to Chinese trade? You need to get in position. And that position cannot be unilateral. Because, in fact, I too plead that our country's unilateral position opens up for the first time not only in Syria, it also opens up to the Aegean, it also opens up to the Mediterranean. These are important issues too. And you're playing because resentment must not be an element of foreign policy. Thessaloniki also has another question regarding transport: what about combined transport and logistics? We have heard the Prime Minister from the footstep of the House saying that a free trade area will be in the area of the 'Gonnos' camp. And I ask the relevant Minister, who is also head of GAIAOSE: will the logistics centre, i.e. the centre of freight transit trade in Thessaloniki, which will make Thessaloniki and the port of the Balkans trade centre? Because if there is a free industrial area, then there will be no logistics, which has already taken place in the first competition, there is already an expression of interest and studies on the final tender have already been prepared. So are you going through the combined transport issues or are you putting on a bomb and blowing up both the port of Thessaloniki and the trade and the Balkan outlet of our country? You need to get in place on all this. Of course, the most important issue to which you need to take a position is what you will eventually do by subway. Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that at the beginning of April 2015 the Thessaloniki City Council, at a meeting that we had the honour of participating in a number of SYRIZA Members, decided to take the sheet out of the Egnatia Street, to open the metro project, to unravel a project that the previous government - had significant responsibilities for the Samara - Venizelos government - had closed in December 2014, filling the plateaus in Thessaloniki and accumulating the demands of the contractors against the country that exceeded a billion. I am referring to a project that for ten years had been implemented and reached 30%. From 2006 to 2015 the project had reached 30% and within two years, from 2016 to 2018, the project reached 75%, the twelve of the thirteen stations and all the line to Kalamaria were built. The metropolitans left Thessaloniki, because the tunnels, the ones that the previous government failed to do, with many New Democracy officials in the previous government, and the CEO of "AKOOR" in February 2019 said the project progressed normally and there is no problem. And it comes from the step of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, the Prime Minister, declaring ignorance of the subject, goes beyond any institutional process and any European regularity, violates the functions of all the institutions, giving a political press order to the Central Archaeological Council, the head of department, the engineers to state what he said, which does not, however, support science or the archaeological law with them. In other words, the Prime Minister will tell engineers what to sign and not what technical science says, which was finalised in previous years with the rules of Europe and science. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] So there is a government which declares European and liberal to completely decouple European regularity and technical science, giving the Prime Minister, on the one hand, anti-institutional mandate to the services to implement things against the public interest. In fact, it is tragic that the Prime Minister's slip has given the contractor rights to claim compensation, to claim price increases only, to claim extraordinary work to the detriment of the public interest. He's never made a political face that big a slip! And it is a very serious political problem for Thessaloniki. And while in Athens, Monastiraki was delayed to save the ancients, in Thessaloniki, we come to fragment its historical memory, to lift the ancients while the Central Archaeological Council has said that they can stay - and left a corresponding section in Agia Sophia - to do what? The aftermath of some ideological officials of the New Democracy, a possible litigation of former and current mayor and above all of the interests of the contractor. Because these interests are served by this great change you have made, Minister. So, what are we going to do from now on? New studies, new archaeological research, new delays, new courts, new project postponement, new compensation, new pay prices. And what is it that turns out? That for this government the interests are above the institutions, above science, above social function and above all, it is above the public interest. It is not only the government that was "wrapping" because it condemned Thessaloniki for ten years on the rave, because these officials had filled Thessaloniki sheet, but now they come to rebuild the center of Thessaloniki, dynamise the world of goods and create costs against the public. I remind you that 1.2 billion was the contractor's objections during the previous period. And we'll have at least three years of suffering again. We don't know what archaeological research will find. I assure you that the courts will not proceed with this procedure. We'll lose part of the city's history. Be careful, the late Macedonians want to degrade, fragment the Byzantine history of Thessaloniki, which is a living monument inside Thessaloniki. This is their love for Macedonia, which was practically a tiny, virtual iconoclasty, which they did. At the same time, there is also a serious attack on the self-government bodies. Is it possible, Mr President - because you are self-government too, I do not say this personally, do you understand, transportingly, I am referring to you - that the self-government bodies are being offended and are being asked to give an opinion on something that the Prime Minister announced as a given by the Step of the House? It is possible to come up with a series of political officials and play a theatre, defending what was not on the political agenda so many years ago - because four years did not exist - just to prevent a Prime Minister from being disproved, who, over and above institutional procedures at the expense of the public interest, announced a change of work, which he states and ignorance? This is the culmination: It declares and ignorance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u39	The Bureau has changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u40	Minister, the only solution that can go to Thessaloniki technical, social, economic, environmental is both metro and ancient. Any other choice you know will strengthen the future of Thessaloniki will cause serious problems in the city's economy. So I'm telling you clearly and cooperatively, because we've been in a lot of time and we've both talked together, this: you'll be personally responsible. And beyond the issue of a political choice, you will be responsible - as government - for losing public interest and resources and connected with new sheet in the center of Thessaloniki. You will have connected your political history with an anti-institutional decision to the detriment of all the rules of science, but at the expense of all the rules on safeguarding the public interest and the historical memory of Thessaloniki, the capital of Macedonia. This decision will come after you, Minister. And you must now make the decision to continue the project and Thessaloniki must have 12 stations in operation at the end of 2020 and in 2021 have the Kalamaria line. This is the solution for Thessaloniki. That's why we worked. And that's what our city deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Felle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u43	For just a minute, Mr Simopoulos has asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. The staff consist of the fact that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u45	Do you know the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President? There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u46	Do you not first want to hear what the staff are composed of?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u47	Do you not call me "The Rules of Procedure Do you know him?" I wasn't here to hear what he said. He asked me for the floor for a minute. We'll give it a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u48	Let me tell you about the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u49	Keep the procedure down, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u50	Mr. President, he photographed me. In this Chamber, a member of the previous government was just me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u51	But he photographed you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u52	You don't have to. He photographed me. This is therefore a personal matter. I am coming to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u53	He photographed you. But it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u54	Why do you give him the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u55	You're right. I didn't hear it. I'm sorry. I thought his name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u56	I now come to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u57	Does it now take the floor on the substance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u58	Please. We know each other. You know I'm doing it kindly. Don't start looking for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u59	You know, Mr. Famele, why, for three years, was there no tension?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Simopole, it didn't refer to your name, as far as I understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u61	But he photographed me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u62	You say he photographed you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u63	You're not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u64	It would have been over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u65	I'd be done already. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u66	You're right. But I was not in the Bureau and I did not hear it. I'm sorry. He says you photographed him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u67	He mentioned the word 'interest'. He photographed me. What do you think? He spoke for his own interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u68	Mr Simopoulos, however, he didn't say your name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u69	Is that a personal insult?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u70	Please for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u71	Two minutes to fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u72	For three years there has been no problem, because we all thought there was a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I too am going to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u74	We'll ask after the speech, because he'll photograph us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u75	You're right. We have to balance it. Mr. Simopoulos, you'll take the floor for a minute, but I'll give the floor for a minute to Mr. Femello. It happened on the change.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u76	Wait a minute. Let him talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u77	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u78	The people who found it on the autopilot can't discuss the Thessaloniki subway! All the problems of the project were solved when the SYRIZA government took over! Secondly, if the procedure were not there - and the Antonis Samaras government did not exist - for referral to arbitration, it would still not go ahead with the work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Simopoulos, finish because this is not on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u80	Thirdly and above all, we cannot be spoken of by the people who have been inaugurated in mushrooms. It's a disgrace! They're making fun of the Greek people. The project would not be ready in 2023.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Simopoulos, please. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for a minute, because I would be unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I think we all understood in this Chamber what the anxiety of the officials of the New Democracy is. Without a personal insult, no one has been troubled, they have anguish to defend their work. You know Mr Simopoulos was, if I am not mistaken, Secretary General of a government, to which I have actually criticised. And I repeat it, Mr President. The New Democracy and the Government of Samara - Venizelos left in 2015, going bankrupt Greece, leaving Thessaloniki full of sheet and work officially stopped in December 2014. I don't know which political official may rejoice and dare take the floor because he left his city with a stop to the work full of sheet. Because it is a given fact that the project stopped in December 2014 while no elections had yet been opened. So those who brought us into bankruptcy and brought the metro to bankruptcy, all they can do is follow the path of virtue and metro to continue a project that now has a route, because otherwise they will connect their name to a second bankruptcy, and this city will never forgive it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u85	There is no more staff, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u86	But he mentioned me again!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u87	No, Mr. Simopoulos. You have no right to speak under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u88	The executives of SYRIZA will be hiding in Thessaloniki shortly!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u89	You have a parliamentary representative! For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u90	Please! Mr Kriton - Ilias Arseni from Mera 25 for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. I think what has been extremely disturbing is the references to the Thessaloniki metro which are really a crime that the government is going to do and a terrible feat, to delay a project by stopping the maintenance of antiquities. So long it was that the ancients were delaying the subway. Now we're going to take out the ancients and delay the subway. It's really an achievement! Nevertheless, you should know that you will not find archaeologists doing the secondment and these ancients will be very difficult to remove. This story of Thessaloniki you will find it very difficult to take it out. Now we are talking about the OSE, it is theoretically incorporating three directives. But practically it is a political choice. The European Commission gives governments a choice to choose the horizontal or vertical methodology. We choose the horizontal that means not control by the state OSE, not the ability of the state OSE to provide work, so only the operation of the network and of the passenger project in practice is for private individuals. And badly there has been no consultation, it is not just incorporation of directives. There is a political choice. The institutions were not badly invited, they were not discussed more widely in society. But all these privatizations - and this is, in fact, the basis of the successful OTE example. Whenever someone in Greece goes to discuss the issue of privatisation, telecommunications and OTE are mentioned. Really, almost ten years after OTE was privatized, what has happened? Where are these investments committed by OTE to doing? I will not talk to you about redundancies, the renting of workers, the minimum wages, the 200% increase in occupational accidents, and so on, because these will only be left-handed arguments. Let's go a little bit to the economics section. What does OTE do, what does DEUTSCHE TELECOM do? He sells the gold. It is 190 million from the sale in Northern Macedonia of OTE subsidiaries, 380 million from the sale of OTE subsidiaries to Serbia, 717 million from the sale of OTE subsidiaries to Bulgaria, 208 million from the sale of ELSTAT satellite. DEUTSCHE TELECOM has made 1.5 billion simply by selling the gold and where are the investments? This is the successful example of OTE. As far as the telecommunications sector is concerned, it is clear that there is now a trust. Anyone who goes to move from one company to another will see that the prices are all the same. Where's the competition exactly? But let's see the part of the airports. The airports, even during the crisis, gave us the EUR 200 million budget a year, 150 directly in the budget and 50 more from subsidisation of the barren lines. These were sold for 1.2 billion, i.e. a six-year advance, and then forever theirs! I'm sorry, but this doesn't even happen in pawn shops. It's a black market reminiscent of it! Are these the standard investments? Other colleagues have mentioned this. Are the model privatisations and investments to sell everything that is a permanent and basic lever of development, that is, the networks of the country's gateway to public companies from other countries? Who's in public with the companies? And that's important, because so long you've been telling us that you're against being the public businessman. The other public can be businessmen? Shouldn't ours be just? Not to say about the airport that the acquisition was made with a loan from the Greek banks guaranteeing the Greek State. As far as TRAINOSE is concerned, the public company, which took over it, promised that it would invest EUR 500 million. The periphery train that would come to make the quick line still await it. We're waiting. As we know, it's twenty-five years old. It, of course, replaces trains that are still older, but with a twenty-five-year train. That is why the UN and the Secretary-General of the UN in particular - I would mention this because you spoke very much as a government about the importance of the Secretary-General's speech to the UN on climate, so in the same forum a year ago, the Secretary-General of the United Nations pointed out with report 73396 that a brake should be placed on privatisations because they are turning against the poor and reducing the rights of the weak. And that's because they're out of control all over the world. But there is another movement, the movement of republics. Eight hundred and thirty-five cases in a thousand six hundred cities and forty-five countries around the world and increasing this number, returned to public control. And in transport, 20 privatisations in transport in France, returned to public control, in the United Kingdom seven, in Austria three, Germany two, Portugal, Canada, the Czech Republic, India and Turkey. And that's what we're gonna do on the first chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Mr. George Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was convinced that the government's perception of economic development belongs to the left wing. Today I discovered that others are joining this logic. And while SYRIZA has now adapted to political reality, some attempt to leap in the past and in the background by discovering the statistics. And you know, when we were students, we had the luxury of saying aloud in fact if he didn't agree with us. But today, looking at the reality in the face, we are obliged to make the jump faster than the wearout, as Elytes says. And that is what the Government of New Democracy and the Lord Mitsotakis is trying to do. With regard to this draft law, it contains four parts: the first concerns the interoperability of the rail system in the European Union. The second relates to the harmonisation of Greek legislation on rail safety. The third is the opening up of the market for domestic rail passenger services and railway infrastructure governance, and the fourth is about safety certification and certificates. The new institutional framework aims to make rail transport more competitive and interoperable, to provide a high level of safety for passengers and to exploit the advantages of rail. Involved services here are OSE, ERGOSE, GAIOSE and all stakeholders around this process, such as railway contractors, railway and rolling stock manufacturers. In my opinion, it is necessary to upgrade the operation of the rail system in order to achieve the competitiveness of the Union railway industry and to promote international rail transport within the European Union, but also in relation to third countries. The Safety Directive includes arrangements for the approval of safety certificates at European Union level in order to reduce the costs and duration of the approval of safety certificates and strengthen the scale economy for railway undertakings. Here again, OSE and ERGOSE are involved, as are the construction and transport companies, recipients, collapsing payers, loaders, unloaders, etc. The third part aims to ensure a safe and quality service to citizens - railway users and to enhance the competitiveness of European railways. The suitability of vehicles, infrastructures and rules on driving and rest periods for drivers must be taken into account. In general, the remaining national monopolies in the field of inland passenger transport are abolished and existing technical and administrative restrictions are eliminated. Increased competition will improve their quality and operational efficiency in order to improve competitiveness and attractiveness in the rail transport sector against other modes of transport. Improving the institutional framework and simplifying administrative procedures and reducing bureaucracy for issuing safety certificates will enable the regulatory framework to strengthen entrepreneurship and competitiveness, and this in turn to improve business competitiveness. The state budget will not be charged by changes. On the other hand, it will have a positive impact on its tax revenues and will reduce social costs because the market will be liberalised and new businesses will enter related sectors and employment will increase in this sector. In the national economy there will be implications for improving the interconnection and interoperability of national rail networks and promoting international rail transport both within the European Union and in third countries. There will also be positive effects on the manufacturing and railway industry. Citizens and railway users will now enjoy high-efficiency transport services, good infrastructure and have access to the data needed to plan travel and book tickets. Rail development is within the framework of sustainable development, as the train is the most environmentally friendly means of transport. At this point I would like to call on you, Minister, to speed up the procedures for the electrification of the Palaiofarsalo-Kalabakas rail lines, which concerns Thessaly, but also Larissa-Volos, which has to do with the interconnection of the port of Volos with the central point of Larissa, which is the capital of our region. The construction of these projects, which are part of the trans-European rail transport network, will create a fully-enabled network, including modern signalling and telecommunications systems and automatic protection of ETCS trains and will lead to an increase in the level of safety and comfort of travellers along the railway line, an increase in traffic speed and a minimisation of delays, making the rail section a parallel to other European rail networks. The completion of the project of electrification throughout the Thessaloniki network will change the data and create new services beneficial to citizens, to tourist development and to the local economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. Mr. Bored by SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that there has been a timeless entrepreneur of the governments who have had this place for decades to come to the railroad and it has not just been a historical unorthodox, an abstract that was accompanied by the modern Greek state. This was a premeditated crime and a mismatch towards what was happening in Europe and further in this area. Top fact - mentioned here - is that it was not predicted in the construction of the Rios Antirios bridge - not it was built, but it was not even predicted if in the future some wanted to revise - the construction of a railway line on the Rios Antirios bridge. Is it understood? No, it wasn't built. It was not planned - so it was excluded - the construction of a railway line! And do you know what the irony is? That this bridge is called "Harilaos Trikoupis". The one who first built a railroad in Greece bears his name. Since then, the network has been unconscious - since the era of Charilaos Trikoupi - and construction has been excluded. And should I say something else about the honourable Members of the New Democracy and KINAL? Mr Simitis was given EUR 15 million for the reconstruction of the line in Itolo-Carnania. So the 15 million were given when the reconstructed was found, they brought the then Prime Minister, went for a walk from Agrini to Mesolongi and the line was abandoned since then. With repeated questions in this House, I have once received an answer - I do not remember from the Minister of New Democracy - that there are failed investments! That's what they called the 15 million who threw them on a barracks to build a line that ended up stinking! And in my insistence on the reopening of the line, some whispered to me "Don't get involved in it. There are certain..." - the CBEL said to me, for example - "...responsive to the operation of the line." And I said, "If there are some who have these quarrelings, come and share in a shape of line collapsing." So nothing on that. However, because some people appear in here with unscrupulous rhetoric and generalities, we have to say that the SYRIZA government has tried and put into practice a visionary plan that has in its heart the operation of the railroad. There is the power line in Athens - Thessaloniki. Also, the train went to the saint. I don't know if the current government will do something - if he heard anything - about subjugating the line in Patras and the port there. I really don't know if he's heard anything or if he's predicted to do something about it. The strategic transport plan with landmark in 2037 was prepared by SYRIZA. SYRIZA in his programme had not only been worked out, but was going to orbit Egnatia, in collaboration with neighbouring states. Does that mean anything to you? Does that mean anything to the so-called Macedonians? What vision do they have for Macedonia? Did they hear something? Today I don't think this is going to prevent them from thinking! You took the thoughts off. I don't know where you deposited them. However, what is your real plan for Thessaloniki and Macedonia, for the Macedonians and those who attended the rallys? What do they have to say about it? What is their vision for Greece, for northern Greece, for Macedonia in the Balkans and further? Zoran Zaev, please, said - and I don't know if the so-called Macedonians heard him - that Greece must play a leading role in the Balkans. Did anyone hear him? Does the current government have a position on this and what is it? Just to manipulate the inner-party reactions around the abnormal landing actually today? I hope that the government will bring about a vote on what SYRIZA had started on this issue, not as a formal parliamentary obligation, but on the assumption that this will be an opportunity not only for reflection but also for reconversion to the issue of the role that the railway can play in today's international transport. If this is to be done on the part of the current government, it could also be seen as a historic "forgiveness" of what happened on the railroad in Greece. It could be seen as a historic 'I'm sorry'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has the floor, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin my speech with the amendment tabled by KINAL. We must say that we will not make it acceptable, as we have said in committee, for two reasons basically, a formal one and I will tell you, if you will, and the essential one. The formal reason for this is that we do not accept amendments to such bills. This is a practice that we will try to follow as a government and it is a practice that has been done more generally in Parliament in most cases. As you know, the extension for the hundred twenty doses ended last night. According to the information I have from the Secretary of State for Finance, they have been included - validated and unreasonable applications - about seven hundred thousand of our fellow citizens who have taken advantage of this opportunity. We had already given an extension of one week. I think you will agree with us that we cannot function by extension. It was very clear that the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister committed themselves to this last extension. After all, a serious state, in our view, cannot prolong situations, because this creates enormous problems on the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u98	But you didn't try to get into the system to see how it worked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u99	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u100	I answered you. From there on, I think that, for reasons of impression, I understand your policy, but I think that the impression in politics also has a limit. Let's go to the bill. I think we have had an excellent exchange of views both today and in the committee, with which it has emerged - I would dare say - a consensus on the present draft law. I think that most of the parties within Parliament have understood that our national law needs the incorporation of these very important European Union directives. These are European directives which, in our view, will contribute very positively to building a single rail network in Europe. The rapporteur of the New Democracy quite rightly said that these directives - indeed, we accepted the SYRIZA rapporteur's comments - should have started to consult and had been voted on for some time last December. The truth is that we have received repeated and justified complaints from the European Commission, because it was indeed a delay without any justification. So today we are putting an end to this delay and operating in a fast way and making it clear that no government should delay the transposition of European directives, but it must make them part of its own law. But here, you will also allow me to address a number of issues relating to various misunderstandings which, unfortunately, we are listening to in this Chamber. To be clear, OSE is under state control. The OSE shall be responsible for the management of the infrastructure. It gives access to the network and he is responsible for traffic management. The 'TRAINOSE', which I am passing away you privatised with 45m euros when, as a opposition, you moved the finger to the then government and said that it should have been sold at least at 300m euros, today it is the provider. It is he, that is, who does, so that we all can understand the transport project. Today, TRAINOSE is a private monopoly. With this directive, therefore, and with the incorporation of the European Union directives, what I think most of them will agree in this Chamber is that this monopoly must be broken. So that is the logic of this bill and of broader policy. And I agree, because SYRIZA has made a huge shift from what he said years ago. And today we hear the rapporteur and other honourable Members talking about the European railway. But you were talking about state railroads until you came to power and saw, in short, that this is something completely anachronistic. With this bill, then, the question is whether we are bringing other providers and other companies to use the infrastructure, whether this is in the cargo or this is in the passenger, so that we also increase transport and revenue to the OSE. I should like to respond to a number of the comments made about the strikes in public transport. Firstly, the strike mobilisation that was cancelled yesterday was a strike mobilisation linked to the "TRAINOSE" on the substance. In other words, it was about the fact that in the ETSC, which has been sold to TRAINOSE, some negotiations should be held on collective agreements. As you know, this strike has been abusive from the court and from the point of view of today - and I think this is for the benefit of the passenger public - we have no strikes on the railroad, we have no strikes in the suburban that would specifically affect the Doucisssis Plaentia - Airport, so it would affect the metro. But let's see where we are, because we see SYRIZA's coming and he moves the finger to the government for collective agreements. It is a shame, for a party that wants to say it belongs to the Left, for a party that wants to convince the Greek people that it wants to protect the rights of the workers for four and a half years to have made the most incredible political intrusion on those who are supposed to be supporting you. I'm explaining. The previous Minister for Transport approved the collective agreement. But you forgot to tell us that while some of them were uploaded to "ERGANI", the Deputy Minister for Finance had not signed them and had not approved them. Who, then, are we mocking in this Chamber? That's what happened. And the feeling remains for the workers - and here is the impending - that collective labour agreements had finally been signed and that the New Democracy is blocking its progress. The political lies also have a limit. Let's tell you what we've been doing for three months now. We're in a constant negotiation. We are on a very good path. Yesterday there was an enlarged government meeting on this issue and we are trying to close your own holes and your own problematic policies that do not honor the political world more widely, not just your world. So what we want to do and we will do is get into a negotiation very soon to end this issue. I think that we are on a very good path from now on, from 2020 onwards, we will see in a rational way and without mocking, without mocking the workers. We are talking here about the OSCE group, we are talking about seven thousand eight hundred workers, and we are talking about non-wage benefits that are currently touching 8.3 million euros for the current year. There have been several Members and colleagues who have heard them. I understand that this bill enables us to refer to broader concepts. I hear many times from SYRIZA officials swing the finger to the entire political world and say "What were you doing about the railroad?", "What are you going to do about the Egnatia?" What I have to say is that you four and a half years have created a virtual reality. You made deals without any reflection. I'm explaining. No one's against the Egnatia railroad. But you will allow me to say that what matters is the Egnatia rail link to the eastern ports of Thessaloniki, Kavala and Alexandroupolis. That's the logic. Because logic says that to help the logistics industry, you need to connect the railroad to the port. It is of great interest that all the wards of Anti-Population today, when in 2008 you were all on the streets when the investment "COSCO" came, swinging the finger on the only part that actually brought one of the largest foreign investments in Greece. And even while you were in this choice, what did the Ministry of Culture do a few days before the European elections to wake up the left reflexes of your voters? You say your voters did not understand that you had made a big turn towards another policy. You created stumblings with ESAL and went to preach all Piraeus as an archaeological site. You finally went to freeze an investment of over 1 billion, which the place so much needs. I therefore have the impression that those who are following these matters seriously understand that these drawbacks which you have made over the years have led to the absolute stagnation. Virtual reality everywhere. That's what SYRIZA did. You're swinging our finger for the subway of Thessaloniki. We had the opportunity to ask a timely question from a good colleague who belongs to our area to have a very constructive dialogue. And I think this controversy really does not help the project in general. We are saying things in this Chamber that - I am sorry to say it - do not really respond. The reality is that I, too, have admitted this to the committee and in front of Mr Spirtzi - to some extent, the metro of Thessaloniki has proceeded with very rapid steps. As Mr Simopoulos quite rightly said, however, this has been because the arbitration has ended. You have given the 200 million to the contractors, to your governments, and the project has indeed been undone. The project was stuck with an appeal that they had made to the CI in 2013. You say things and sometimes I wonder if you know the procedures. When someone goes and appeals to the C.E., the play sticks. Unfortunately, we did not discuss these issues in the Constitutional Review. We were talking about the direct-democratic election process of the President of the Republic. We were not discussing what the responsibilities of the ETUC should be. We did not discuss the main problems we have to face. Therefore, an incredible myth was created. Let's go to Venizelos Station. Indeed, the work on the rest of the Thessaloniki railroad was a success, because the process was simply undone. You didn't do anything terrible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u101	That's great. You guys do it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u102	I'll tell you what we're doing. Don't worry. Do you know what you're doing? You are talking about the classic argument that is the abstraction of populism. Because you're saying things that don't apply. Firstly, the CEO who left a few weeks ago and had been appointed by you, had himself returned and said that with the solution at the Venizelos station - I have submitted his statement in the minutes - the metro would be ready in 2025. He had said that himself, no executive had said it. Mr. Tachiaos didn't say so, Mr. Kuretas didn't say so. Mr. Kefaliannis didn't say so. The contractor himself said that for the Venizelos station you have not given a study. I told you in committee something we can't testify to. We have spent over 135 million euros on archaeological excavations in Thessaloniki. The Acropolis Museum cost less. Politicians must therefore find solutions. And the solution we choose is appropriate for a simple reason. Because it's going to be cheaper. Because technically for the solution you have proposed you do not have a study and it is technically impossible, with the risk that the project will not end and that the European Union which finances these projects will come and ask for all the money back. So we come back to the wall to say something that CSR has approved in 2014. There is a decision by the KAS, which says that the secondment and relocation did not cause any problem in the emergence of antiquities, because in any case the secondment took place at the station "Agia Sophia", you also made the secondment of antiquities at the station "Agia Sophia" and on the basis of all the archaeological experts at the station "Agia Sophia" have even greater importance than those at the "Venizelos" station and I would remind you that the whole metro was done in Athens by this process. So you're coming now and you're swinging our fingers. I do not want to go into such a controversy, but quite rightly the New Democracy MPs have told you that this is the first time in our country that we have seen a measure of mustamads and wagons that do not exist. There is also a limit to politics - if you want - to defraud voters. There's a limit! And I think you have understood very well that once lies are over, because with your own political choice we would have a coliform, we would have a measure without the main station, which is the "Venizelos" station, and when the "Venizelos" station was given to the operation, three central stations would stop operating from eight to sixteen months. At St.A., and I'm closing this for the Thessaloniki subway, Mr. Boutaris' appeal was not justified, to know what we're saying. The KAS and what he did in 2014 was to say that the solution to the secondment and relocation was archaeologically legitimate. So I think the tons should drop a bit for the Thessaloniki metro. To tell the truth, to say that at the Venizelos station you have not presented a study. It hasn't started completely...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u103	There are studies. We've told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u104	There are no studies, don't be exposed. There are no studies and we'll see about that. If you want to ask me a question, I'll bring you everything to see that studies have never been presented and have never been. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like you to have a little tolerance, Mr President, because a lot of things have been put forward. I will conclude by saying this: because these issues, particularly railway and road projects, I understand that these are issues which need to be escaped from political confrontation for only one reason, I have the impression that we must follow the veiled Europe. What is going on in Europe? Ladies and gentlemen, in Europe it is not every time that the Minister or politicians decide what work must be done or what work must be done. Those who decide it, especially since 2015, are feasibility and sustainability studies. We are talking about rail projects and we hear incredible things. We hear: “Why did you respond to this work? Why is it not to be subjugated to Patras or to be done?’ The subjugation in Patras we've been discussing it for twenty years. There has been absolutely nothing, there is no study. Do you know why? Because in fact it is a project which we all understand will not find funding. Mr. Velopoulos came in here and said incredible things. He said: 'Why should Europe allow us?' Europe does not allow us. Europe tells us something very simple to understand: 'After 2015, if you want to get money to do a great national project from Europe, these are the rules'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u105	What's your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u106	Don't interrupt me. I'm telling you. You know, the political reason once has to start, half and end. So listen to me, and your parliamentary representative can answer. So Europe comes and says: 'If a state wants to fund a project, I must see a feasibility and sustainability study', the so-called 'feasibility plan'. You did this in 2015. You accepted it as government, and you did well. And you know what that says? It says that in order to finance the project, this study must not be done by the Ministry, not by the "ERGOSE", but must be done by an independent body to see what the environmental impacts are, what the impact of the project on local GDP will be. So that's what we've never done and thrown money away, the truth is, in a dumpster all these years. So today, if we want to have any national work, we must have the Jaspers seal, which are the technical advisers of Europe. So it is not enough to have a desire, it is not enough to have mature studies, it is not enough to be able to auction. What is necessary is to have funding, because I hear you say: "It is mature to study. Why has it not gone ahead?’ Once these projects are not financed by the PPP, i.e. only from national resources, and you come and ask for PPPs or you come and ask for financial support from Europe, you have to follow the rules. This is how Europe works. It'll take you a while to understand it. And in 2015 it took you a while. I understand that. Because we are the true Europeanists, we will tell you and we will explain them to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u107	Thank you. We pass to the Parliamentary Representatives and we begin with Mr Karathanasopoulos of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman for her position. If there was one question: 'Tell us an example which highlights the enormous supremacy of socialism towards capitalism', I would say to you that transport is one of the best examples of the enormous supremacy of socialism we have known and built at that time, not today, with today's data. And that is exactly what illustrates the example of transport: the enormous importance of social ownership and central scientific planning in the means of production, because in socialism transport and transport infrastructures have been designed to meet the needs of the people and the needs of the production process, namely agricultural production and processing. So, in socialism, we had the combination of transport, of all forms, whether they were land with a fixed network or road, whether they were air or sea. Capitalism called interconnected networks in the European Union put it in 2000. How many decades after socialism imagine. So we had a combination of all these different forms of transport. We didn't just have a combination, we had a complementarity. In other words, they did not have competitive networks and infrastructures. Here the different networks and infrastructure are a huge waste of resources. That is why there are delays. Why should the railroad take place when the roads are to take place? To win manufacturers, vehicle importers, automotive industry, oil and everything else, as is done in capitalism. From this point of view, it is no accident that the European Union, when discussing the railways, put in the first package of liberalisation, in its report that we should - it says - draw close to the model of socialism in 1997, which was said to be more than 90% of passenger and freight transport by rail in the case of land transport. Where else in capitalism was that? So, in order not to be far behind the enormous supremacy of socialism, this central design and social ownership in the means of production allows for the combined satisfaction of all needs, which capitalism will never succeed because it has anarchy, competition and competitiveness in its DNA. What, then, means combined needs? Firstly, cheap and safe transport. Secondly, meeting the needs and addressing the great issue of regional disparities and liberalising the development of productive forces. And when we talk about regional disparities, he spoke before KINAL's special speaker said there was no railroad in Epirus. Thirty years it was government. They didn't do anything. They did something. Let's recognize them that they did something. They appointed a station manager in Messolong! That's what PASOK did! He appointed a station in Messolong! We are talking about the full treatment of these needs. Protection of the environment, savings of resources, economics and energy, and, of course, protection of defence and security of the state. Put all this together and tell me if capitalism can satisfy it. How's capitalism? What's the logic he's planning? Because there's a general design beyond the anarchy. It designs on the basis of the needs and priorities of monopolies and multinationals, large capital. So let us see the great picture of transport at European Union level. What does the European Union fund and plan after the overthrows of socialism? It finances and plans the single transport network in order to integrate the European market. That's the poor thing! The integration, with infrastructure and networks, of the European market in order to make it easier to transport goods - either imports or exports - of its multinationals. Thus, it finances infrastructure and networks at the very basis of the trans-European combined transport networks. Those projects and infrastructures are not part of these networks, then they are referred to in the calls. Infrastructural and networking are done with this aim. Infrastructures are made on the basis of the manufacturer’s profit to be managed by the project. And here is a train example: the Riu-Antirios "Harilaos Trikoupis" bridge, for which in 1997 the "ECONOMIST" had written: "It is a project that connects nowhere with the absolute nowhere". And they now come out here, SYRIZA, PASOK and others, and they say, "but there was no railway engraving and connection." What do you think? Why don't you tell the truth? Because you are apologies to the European Union. The European Union has banned it! Why the question put by the JRC at the time, before the bridge became, was there a rail link, what had the Commission answered? ‘There can be no rail link. We will not finance it because there is no network on the continent. Even if there was a network in the continent,... listen to this - '...the transport project is too small'. So here's who prevented the rail link from happening! The European Union itself has blocked it, which has not changed its logic. In this respect, then, we have this bridge, which then connected nowhere with nothing, which was completed in 2004, while the roads connecting the bridge were completed in 2018. Imagine what profits the multinational consortium built the bridge had. So here's why it happened! The third element is that we have excellent infrastructure. The infrastructure is extremely expensive during construction. How much did the European Court of Auditors say that the "Olympic Street" project has gone beyond? It was ten times over its original cost and with the project cut to half and less. We have expensive works that the Greek people pay for with their taxes - because the European Union's funding is again the money of the Greek people - and will continue to pay them expensively because of the expensive tolls. And what does the European Union not do? He doesn't finance any other kind of infrastructure. There are infrastructures and transport networks in Greece that are under collapse. Take the rural roads, the agricultural roads, the rural roads, the secondary national network. We're talking about the road network. We are not talking about rail that we arrived in 2020 to talk about a rail network that is smaller than the Trikoupi era. Imagine what progress capitalism has made in Greece! Huge! Why is that so? Because, of course, there is reason to believe that these projects are not being carried out because they are being colluded with by the European Union's policies, which the government is glad to serve. SYRIZA does the same. Only the SYRIZA rapporteur did not cry about how pleasant it is that we are now voting on two directives, with which great things will be done. So what does the European Union say? First of all, he says for profit. Who will win from the infrastructure? Second of all, he says it's a transport project. Is there a proper transport project to make the road to make the railroad? Third, cost-benefit. If from what is going to happen and the cost of it will be profitable, that is to say, profits for monopolies. So the provincial roads, the secondary road network have no such thing. And, of course, the second point of the European Union's policy is the liberalisation of transport and the abolition of state monopolies, so that European multinationals can just get into this area. Let me refer back to what I said before because the European Union forbids them. The Minister said so, and I want to mention it. What projects - says - will be done in Greece? Not what the Greek people need and production, but the projects decided by the Jaspers, that is, the technical advisers of the European Union, will be carried out. How about that logic? In fact, we will defend her with fingernails and teeth that logic. That is why there will be no railroad in Epirus, which is why the train will reach Patras and there will be a great disaster and a number of other things. We are not talking about the rest of the rail network. On the other hand - and I conclude with this - we have the hypocrisy of the other forces. Instructions celebrate. Finally, - they say - Mr Minister, you have brought them up and criticized individual issues. They talk about the metro of Thessaloniki and they are not ashamed when it has become worse than the bridge of Arta. We are talking about 2020, not when the bridge of Arta was built. And they're fighting about who's putting in obstacles. So what did the SYRIZA rapporteur say? Wishes for healthy liberation. We're talking in terms of economy, and we're turning them into medical. What does it mean to be healthy? So, is there an unhealthy release? Liberation is an economic class term that serves the needs of capital. Is there a good and bad release? Healthy - says - liberation, which will do? It'll make business more competitive. So you're with business competitiveness. And why are you hiding it? The competitiveness of wages, wages, wages, labour rights, which makes works extremely expensive, the transport work even more expensive, so that they can win monopolies. And what did he say? You are privatising - it says - just transport and not infrastructure. In fact, it set an example of 'TRAINOSE'. And what do the opposing parties want with this directive? They want to defend the Italian monopoly? Well, don't they have a little political entropy? They privatized TRAINOSE in Italian for thirty pieces of silver, and now what do they come and say? It reminds us of what our people say: someone killed his father and then asked for the court's grace because he was an orphan. That's what SYRIZA's policy does. It breaks the needs of the workers and the people, and now it is asking for grace. We're talking about PASOK. To say a word about the contradiction between Mera25. For hydrocarbons the JRC falsely accused the JRC of being in favour of the State monopoly in the extraction of hydrocarbons. The JRC doesn't have that kind of position. Here today, Mera25 defends the state monopoly on transport. We are against the State monopoly. Of course, we are more opposed to the liberalisation of the market, which abolishes state monopolies and any public undertaking that remains and operates under liberation conditions is also transformed under private economic criteria, so for profit. Why are we opposed to liberation without defending the state monopoly? Because it makes the terms of the working class even more painful and satisfying of the people's needs. That's why we oppose it. In fact, all parties - and the Greek Solution - did some calculations: how much we lost from here, how much we won from there, how much we got from the other side, from the airports, the ports, the railways.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u109	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u110	I conclude with this phrase. What's the problem? The problem is to turn politics into accounting. Why are they doing this? To really cover up the deal, that a few you took, we lost more, they give it and they take. This leads to their main agreement being covered in their policies pursued and the interests of capital and their consequences. What don't all of them know, or rather some? I mean, they know, but they hide it. That the urban state has always - not only the Greek, all the urban states - since the first day of its creation created and done everything that served the great capital. So in economic matters he buys expensively from business groups and sells free to them, because that is how it ensures the profitability of business groups. That is why socialism will break the rotting urban state, but also the urban state monopolies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in your position you referred to the SYRIZA government in a disgraceful way, in fact, wondering what the European experience is and what the European relationship between SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you here that it is the government of SYRIZA that negotiated with our country and managed through concrete initiatives and actions, with the sacrifices of the Greek people, to reach the happy ending a year ago to get our country out of the memoranda and to regulate the debt. It is the government of SYRIZA that achieved for nine consecutive quarters - this continues during the period of governance of the New Democracy, but of course it cannot be fruited by the Government of New Democracy - the development process and recovery of the economy and the real economic sizes. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that the SYRIZA Government - and our rapporteur, Mrs Perka, said so very clearly - has put the means of fixed track again, rail, at the heart of a transport strategy, taking into account the new challenges and needs of climate change and sustainable and fair growth. That is foreseeable, because there are specific projects. These are not just paper designs, as you have suggested, because at the moment there is the electrification of the line from Athens to Thessaloniki, the extension to Agios, the possibility, through the overall policy of the government of SYRIZA, of greater penetration and interconnection with regard to Balkans and, of course, the very great benefits that such growth will give to the wider area of the Balkans, but also the importance that it will give to our country, whether it concerns freight transport or tourism and passenger transport via the railway. But what's our difference? And there, Minister, I think your position was clear. The difference is that we do not just expect European planning and that is where we come to take action or implement it. Because it is clear - our rapporteur said so - that we are positive, that we support this draft law and believe that the transposition of these directives is in a positive direction. But this alone is not enough. You mentioned the Jaspers and the need for funding. That's right. No one's denying it. However, the crucial point is that our country cannot - and your government must not - rely simply on a European environment of markets and consultants and not have its own design. And this design must be a broader design of sustainable, sustainable development, with a fair social dimension, which will also face climate change, the great challenge ahead of us, taking into account our own needs, the needs of social, regional and geographical specificities and of course, the prospect of our own country within this broader context, which is currently being formed, interconnections, transport networks across Europe, but, of course, and the possibilities opened. That is where we have not heard, Minister, something and we are waiting. You're a new Minister, it's a three-month government. Instead of swinging the finger on counter-population for specific projects which, after all, went on and done, we expect you to see what is your design, what is your plan for combined transport and what initiatives and actions you will take with regard to the railways in particular, of course, and the new framework within which national legislation will now move, following the incorporation of the directives, which will be done today with the fourth European package. It is true that in this package we recognise the positive. After all, a dialogue had also started on our own government in the previous period with both the public and private sectors. And it is important that, in the context of the liberalisation of markets, of all markets at European level - and this is something that has also been fought at European level - public service is guaranteed, and we insist - and I am glad that you too recognise it - the role of the OSE in terms of the network manager. Of course, although we recognise the effort you make with the legislative improvements, we would like this reference to Article 82(4) to be clearer. Well, you've been mentioned. We keep what you say. I don't know if you have any scope for further improvement. In any case, it is important to recognise the social dimension of rail transport by ensuring that public interest issues are taken into account and, of course, that there are rules that are respected. There too, we consider the strengthening of the regulatory authority to be positive. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have a framework which is firstly positive. But where can this framework yield and how should it be done? I think we all agree in this Chamber - the issue is how this will be done and implemented - that we need today to put a new dynamic, to turn a new page over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over the past, as regards what we call'sustainable development' and 'the productive model of our country'. This is not a theoretical thing, it is not something that is easy to talk. It's a matter of survival. It's a matter of survival of our economy, our production, it's a matter of survival as a whole for all humanity. We are therefore waiting for you as a government - and I think this is the crucial thing that needs to come out of this debate - that, starting from a European policy, you will see how the development of the railways can be reflected in a long-term strategy, the development of these networks, in an overall view which, in fact, serves this purpose. Of course interoperability and combined transport are also part of this. There have also been corresponding positions by colleagues from the other parties. Minister, I would like to focus on two issues which I consider to be directly linked to our debate. One was already put on board by colleagues, Mr Famello and Mr Vartenmenos, on the Thessaloniki metro, to which you replied. First of all, that's not the case. There is a study that the metro President, Mr. Mylopoulou, has presented. Perhaps the relevant committee will have a more extensive debate on this matter. However, there is a study. It is not true that there is no study. What is currently creating the reaction is your policy as a government and the completely inappropriate and unethical intervention of the Prime Minister from the IGC, where he intervened, as he did not have to, on issues that the competent authorities had to judge, giving the solution, without waiting for studies. Really, what study was the Prime Minister based on in order to make this statement? The private investor in previous years had raised no objections to this issue, but when the Prime Minister's statement was made, of course, and the private investor has no reason to agree. A lot more is being divided into an entire city and one topic is being raised: the historic continuity of this city, Thessaloniki, has been revealed at this station, which I think should rather be moved and united here as a National Delegation to think about - not to make political controversy between us - what is the most suitable way to ensure it, to show it. You know that on the metro in Monastiraki there were corresponding problems and solutions were found. I would remind you, too, that when it was about engraving the Attica Road, there were too many major problems. Fortunately, however, the solution with the tunnels, which largely maintained the respective natural heritage of Hymetos, prevailed. So, Minister, without any controversy, what do we expect from you, who are also Macedonian? We expect you to come here and say that we need to find a solution, we need to respect a legacy. We have a unique privilege. We are one of the few countries - perhaps Italy too - which can prove through its cultural and archaeological heritage a historical continuity and a culture. And we must make this really an advantage in the logic of sustainable development, which is not just the environment. "Sustainable development" is our heritage, and our culture is our education, our quality of life. And all of this finally has a positive reflection on the economy. As for the argument about the delay on the metro issue, I would like to say this: it is to your credit that you admitted that during the SYRIZA governance period there was progress. So we would now expect you not to go ahead with a process which divides and affects our cultural heritage and - as Mr Arseni said, as Mr Arseni said - will eventually create huge delays, new appeals and new problems. In conclusion, we are positive about today's directives and their incorporation. We believe, however, that the crucial issue from now on is this: what will be your plan next day? How will you use this framework, with all its aspects, in terms of both the public interest and the role of OSE in relation to network management and, of course, in an overall design, sustainable development, through sustainable transport, combined, and the corresponding interconnection in the Balkans? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-four Dutch students and students and five of their attendants from Stanislas College. We welcome them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Katrinis now has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my position with two retreats that have been heard here in the Chamber. As a fellow Member spoke of governments who left at night, I would like to remind him that if he qualifies for this position, at night the governments that are calling an election at one after midnight, after an election crash, as took place three and a half months ago, following the European elections in May 2019. Perhaps, therefore, he is more concerned as a SYRIZA MEP than the previous government he wanted to describe. Also, because the Minister, as well as the Commission and today in plenary, referred to 2008 and the 'COSCO' case, it is good that he remembers and recalls in his memory at this time, as regards the government's attitude at that time to privatise the PPA and to invest 'COSCO' in our country. I would like to remind him that this period is mainly characterised by an economy which, in 2009, was "run" at a negative rate of growth, having an exorbitant external loan, which was unprecedented worldwide in economic times, an economy that had twin deficits which, with a primary deficit of 15.6%, led Greece to the rocks and the need for support programmes. Since the Minister has chosen to start his position, in response to the amendment to the Change Movement, I would like to say that we think and believe that it is an amendment that reflects the reality, the real problems and the needs of the taxpayers, because the regulation on the hundreds of twenty instalments has not produced the expected results. It was not our point that it was problematic. The Citizens' Counselor made a report 15 days ago and said that there are too many problems, both for regulation in the funds and for tax regulation, and then urging that there should be an extension of this arrangement. A short-day extension was given. We believe that further provision should be made so that more of our fellow citizens can get this possibility and save the seizures, as we hear, which, although they have not been regulated and owe. Of course, the government appears incomplete in this matter. I don't know if he had the same tough stand in the debate as the institutions. We learn from information that there was a great discrepancy in the assessment of the budgetary gap. Some people talk about 1 billion, some talk about 1.5 billion. The government, of course, appears reassuring and this is reflected in the preliminary draft budget: an increase in objective values and more than EUR 150 million of this burden. And, of course, despite the assurances of governmental factors that there will also be another reduction in the ETUC when objective values will be raised, they say nothing about the ten taxes that will condone increases in the objective values, such as taxes on the transfer of heritage, parental provision, donation, exchange, combination, distribution of property, and many other taxes, which I only need time to mention. So they are not saying anything about it and they are not saying anything about the depressing refusal of the institutions to allow further reductions in HICP, when and since - I repeat - the objective values of the property are increased by law. And this, of course, with very fresh fruit, the decision of the Council of State for twelve regions, which is of high value, which considers the assessment invalid and calls for revision, adjustment. There is no design, beyond some meetings that took place just the day before, apparently because the Minister was aware of the decision of the Council of State. The Council of State, also in its decision on the insurance law of Katrugalo, which the previous government wanted to present as an incision to the insurance system of the country, decides unconstitutional cuts in supplementary pensions, unconstitutionally high contributions to the free professions. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, the mockery of the then government on the "the tie movement", which the young professionals have been protesting about the extermination contributions that the Council of State today judges as unconstitutional. And, of course, unconstitutional was the calculation of the low rate of replacement, especially for insured persons with too many years of insurance, at a cost that cannot be calculated. Some people are talking about 4 billion, probably annually, which is not, of course, reflected in the preliminary draft budget, a draft which quite simply implements the previous government's commitments and objectives, with an exorbitant primary surplus of 3.5% - close to 7 billion euros - with no reference to the government's intention to change the status of operation of the surplus fund, to which the public assets have been assigned for ninety-nine years, a draft budget based on speculation that we will have growth of 2.8% in 2020, which not the Change Movement, but the Greek Financial Council appreciates as over-population. And, of course, this is an estimate based on an increase in investment and private consumption. So private consumption increases with what banking system operates, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time as the HERAKLIS project on the regulation of red loans seems to be wrecking? There is no reform of the bankruptcy system, there is no planning for the borrowers, and in order to allow the banking system to refinance the Greek economy, so that - and we want this - we do want to increase growth, but also attract investment and this can be allocated to the fairest part of our fellow citizens. Of course, we all agree here in this Chamber that development is a prerequisite for improving transport and infrastructure, and that is why we agree with the three directives we are debating today. I think that our rapporteur, in detail, has referred to the proposals and positions of the Change Movement, on the crucial transport sector, calling for an extension of the high-speed network for passengers and goods, for interoperability and combined transport by means of a link with other transport infrastructure, so that we have integrated trans-European networks, with the aim of Greece finally becoming a European commercial hub with Asian countries. Of course, there are also some questions that I am reintroducing. The colleague, Christos Gocas, said so. What about the electrification of the railway, which is the most environmentally friendly way? Is there any design? Have the necessary funds been guaranteed? And of course, where is the completion of the network to Patras? And I say this, Minister, because recently the newly appointed President and CEO of OSE has been mentioned - rather in his capacity as Regional Councillor of Western Greece - in the strategic plan that says that he has to expand the network on the road from Patras to the Tower, without, of course, telling us if there is a master plan, if there is an approved allocation for that purpose and, of course, if there is a feasibility study. And that is what Mr Spiliopoulos says at the same time as your Government and your Ministry - Mr Karamanlis is not here to answer - he has not yet made clear what his final proposal is in relation to the Patras - Tower road axis. There were the initial leaks that you were going with a proposal to redesign the project as a contractor. We have recently known that there was a high-level debate with officials from the European Commission. I do not know if you have finally made this proposal, nor do I know what the Commission's response was to this design. But you must at some point clarify to the citizens and to Elijah and Achaia, here in the National Representation, what is your final proposal and planning for this roadmap that is the modern bridge of Arta and for which, Minister - I do not know if you are aware of it - already all the municipal councils of Elia have taken unanimous decisions calling for the speeding up of the completion of this project, which, with overwhelming responsibilities of the previous government, with great delays, unjustified, supposedly the name of the small contractors to go to the well-known contractor, who was then declared a discount, arrived today to be at a customer and essentially threatened. Of course, the Minister rightly referred - our rapporteur said so - to the other tactics of SYRIZA in relation to the rail section. It is characteristic, emblematic, that the case of the 'TRAINOSE', when complaints were made about the low price of privatisation, and the 'TRAINOSE' was sold instead of 45 million euros, when the 300 million that was the previous proposal, then in the ears of the SYRIZA Members and MPs, imagined as a sale and divestment. That's why we haven't got a convincing answer yet, nor has it become an honest self-critic. Our debate, of course, ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude with this position - is not taking place in a neutral climate and environment. We are all watching - not only in Greece, but I think the world community - with particular interest what is happening in the wider region, initiatives, threats, exiles from Turkey and President Erdogan. Just two days ago, the ultimatum was completed to the United States, and in fact yesterday, the green light was given to intervention in northern Syria, which serves the strategic planning of the Turkish President for a settlement of over one million Sunni refugees in this region, so that he could understand this zone, at the same time as a controlled flow of refugees threatening Greece and the European Union to obtain economic compensation, as well as was seen at geopolitical level. And this intervention in northern Syria is likely to cause, that it will create a new wave of refugees with a basic gateway of entry into the European Union. And that is something that the government and the relevant ministers should have to deal with in a timely manner. The government is right to move to a level of building wider alliances in the South-East Mediterranean region. However, we also need to ensure that the blurred internal front is also secured with high political debates. And certainly all these developments with a Turkish President and a country that moves asymmetrically and exposes threats, both to Cyprus and to our country and to the wider region, cannot justify a climate of celebration for any foreigner visit, as recently as the US Minister for Foreign Affairs has recently seen, especially since the last development we have seen that traditional alliances are being abandoned. In any case, it is important to ensure that we participate in NATO and the European Union, and I repeat, there should be an internal front sluggish, so that we are prepared not only for the refugee flows that will certainly increase, but also for geopolitical and geostrategic developments in the wider region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too. Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor since Mera25. Let me inform you that after that, Mr. Heitas will speak from the Greek Solution and then we will have an intervention of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Kefaliannis. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before entering into the essence of what I have to say, to incorporate the directive that we are now about to incorporate into our national law, to say that I cannot really be held up by the temptation to speak for one, two minutes just for this wonderful, glorious economic development that we all experience in Greece. I have heard since this morning that the representatives of the two major parties have been calling for, in particular, who has brought more development to our place. I just heard my favourite and dearest, Mr Xinoyannakopoulou, say that SYRIZA has achieved for nine consecutive quarters an unprecedented development for the country. I have heard other speakers from SYRIZA suggest about the fact that the New Democracy is continuing this sparse development only from acquired speed, from the brilliant achievements of the previous SYRIZA government. Some of the representatives of the other big party responded that, on the contrary, SYRIZA was suppressing the dreadful spring theory - you know it all of you - and it wasn't pushing up on a rapid growth, precisely because of the ideological and left obsessions that characterize it, and now, just the New Democracy took over the country's helmet and the vote of confidence, of course, which it took from the markets, growth will come in a rapid and polluting way. Honestly - I'm sorry about the way - we're laughing? Where do you see her, ladies and gentlemen, all that growth that I do not see? In fact, please, if anyone can show it to me too, so I can show it to the millions of our compatriots who are hungry and imprisoned, because - frankly, I am telling you - they have not understood it. It's obviously around somewhere in the surrounding atmosphere, but poor people haven't seen it and they're still disappointed. Let's disappoint them. Now, the Community directives we are now called upon to incorporate into our national law are the last chapter in a history that began twenty-eight years ago, in 1991, with the directive at the time 91/440 or else 'The first railway package'. The purpose of this story is, it is supposed, to create a functional pan-European network that would eventually unite all the countries of our European Union. Unfortunately, it seems now that, after four such railway packages - directives and almost thirty years have passed in the meantime, their real purpose has been and remains a unique one and is the privatisation of the railways. But let us follow the sequence of these packages, which have led to the gradual deregulation of the railways on our continent and to their privatisation, which, with this last package, the bureaucratic and illegal - completely illegal - is trying to complete. In 1991, therefore, the first railway package imposed the break-up of each country's railway company to individual companies, each of which owns, controls, manages or takes over the commercial exploitation of the infrastructure, such as, for example, in our country where the exploitation of the infrastructure is linked to the 'TRAINOSE', a fine company belonging to an insolvent Italian Mid-American group. And when I say migraine, for those who have questions, I mean that, while it's kind of like state-owned, it's assigned the most critical areas of management and development to private individuals, so it's a semi-state company. So this bankrupt company has acquired the operation of our network by paying only EUR 50 - million more than our rail tracks would be worth if they were going to a waterbath. The first directive, therefore, has not, since 1991, left us - I am sorry to say so - no margin of misinterpretation. At the beginning of the year, it has been apparent that rail transport is 'in order to become effective and competitive in comparison with other modes of transport, the Member States must give the railway undertakings a status of an independent business operator which enables them to behave as commercial operators' and to adapt to the needs of the market. We note here that, until then, the railways were state monopolies in all the countries of Europe. This directive, therefore, sparked deregulation of the railways, starting and privatising them. The second railway package - a directive - let me not bore you with the numbers - of 2004 concerned some common technical specifications, common safety rules and safety criteria, and full opening of rail freight transport across the European Union. By Regulation 881, if I am not mistaken, the European Union Agency for Railways was set up in the same directive, which lays down technical requirements and safety standards. The third - and this is quite a more critical - railway package that entered into force since 2010 has introduced legislation that has to do with opening international lines to competition, including opening inland transport within a country, the well-known cabotage. Now, in other words, an alpha company operating an international route crossing the beta country was now having the legal capacity to carry passengers between two or more stations in the beta country. The partial opening up of the market to international competition has thus begun. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 directive, that is, the fourth railway package we are about to incorporate today into Greek law, is supposed to try to ensure the interoperability of the entire European rail network and material, namely technical harmonisation of network and vehicle. But why, according to the authors of this directive, is it necessary to interoperability of the railways of the Member States of the European Union? However - as one would reasonably expect - to facilitate the movement of European citizens and goods within the European Union, since this does not mean anything to the causes, but only - as is mentioned here - the opening up of the market and the creation of economies of scale for railway undertakings. Of course, economies of scale are more than legitimate, precisely because, with their appearance and expansion, they make unit costs downwards, that is, they actually lower each unit's costs. On the other hand, is it not at least oxime in a Community directive which is supposed to open up the market to competition at pan-European level against the influx of state monopolies, to bring the economies of scale to the railways, a very important stage in the operation of a large economic unit, when it is large enough to cover the market that operates, if not monopolistic, at least oligopolistically? And if state monopolies failed to bring the proper functioning of the railways into Europe, with what reason do we think private companies will do it? If state monopolies kill competition - and that is why they cannot improve the services provided - is it reasonable to believe that private people will give him the kiss of life? Finally, the 2016 European Directive provides for the possibility of a vertical or horizontal production model. In the first case, the company managing the railway infrastructure will also control its operation, while in the second case its operation will necessarily be controlled by other companies or companies. And here, ladies and gentlemen, your interesting secrets begin. The Greek Government, your Government, in the bill we are discussing today, is bizarrely choosing the horizontal model, although we are well aware that the long-standing economies of scale, on the rail market, come mainly with the vertical model of production. So at least they show almost all the studies that have been carried out in the world. We suspect, therefore, that the choice of the horizontal model by your Government is as main aim to prevent the State OSE from operating in the future competitively in terms of individuals. However, while prohibiting the OSE from entering the farm sector, at the same time it allows any other European company to enter this sector. As each company, apart from the OSE, will have the right to enter the holding, i.e. on the routes, we wonder whether TRAINOSE, the company that currently holds the holding exclusively on the basis of its contract with the Greek State, will take any legal actions it judges for the defence of its financial interests, energising criminal clauses that are, of course, existing in the contract or claiming other compensation through the judicial process. We are asking ourselves whether, at the end of the day, Greek citizens will be asked to pay again the account of protection provided by New Democracy to individuals from the competition that they would have with a vertically integrated OSE toward them and that is why they are choosing the horizontal structure. Mer25, as an integral part of the first pan-European movement of Diem25, has long submitted to the public debate and programmed in recent European elections its proposal called 'New Green Agreement for Europe'. One of the main policies proposed by this new green agreement for Europe is the investment programme for the green transition of EUR 500 billion annually for the next five years. In total, we are talking about a programme of 2.5 billion over five years, which will finance the green transition to the critical areas of energy, transport, industry and agriculture, while ending the inhuman austerity on our continent and creating many hundreds of thousands of quality new jobs. I already hear voices in my ears saying: "The money, the money. All this, well said by you left-wingers, tell us where the money is going to be." So, ladies and gentlemen, all this money, the 2.5 billion, in five years' time, will be found very simply by Eurobonds that will issue and guarantee them, simply by saying that it will intervene if necessary to support them on secondary markets, our European Central Bank, without even imposing an additional tax burden on European citizens. You will all agree with me that enough has already been imposed. In this regard, our pan-European proposal for a green transition to transport includes the upgrading of railways to a peak, as they are one of the safest, economical and, above all, environmentally friendly means of transport for passengers and goods, while at the same time it is a very important means of transport that is dispersing external economies throughout society, thus making the social benefit from their operation much greater than any operating cost. For this very reason, we think that large-scale investments should be carried out in our rail network and material, and obviously we are talking about a future transition to full electricity. However, we are not talking about investment for the sole purpose of opening up to the market, that is to say, their merchandise, which will eliminate external economies, ultimately incorporating them into the profits of private enterprises, that is to say, the spirit and principle of this directive. That is why we are voting against in principle, but we are in favour of the parties concerned with interoperability and common safety rules, even if we are well aware that this is all about the wrong reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution. He only has six minutes, but I'm sure he'll make it to say what he wants. He's capable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Six minutes is too long. You will allow me all due respect to my fellow Members, to the Parliament and to the Chamber in which we are in, to say that neither of us expect this image of the Greek Parliament today. Unfortunately, it happens at most plenary sessions. It's a very unpleasant picture and I just wanted to touch it on the world that's watching us. I also wanted to mention that I did not know that the TV station of Parliament has such a high viewing, because the messages I received from angered citizens of Thessaloniki in my messages, in Messenger, on Facebook, but also in my office in Thessaloniki are too much for the mocking that people feel about the metro case. So we're being watched. Luckily, the viewers are more than we are in here. However, I will be coming back to serious metro a little later. I'd like to make a little clear, because someone said something about Marxist theories and referred to the Greek Solution. I did not know that Italy, Germany, Austria, France, recently, and England, which takes its trains back, are Marxist countries. We have learned today from the New Democracy colleagues that these countries are Marxist. We found out today. I would also like to say to my dear colleagues that you have confused privatisation with the statistics of other states. In addition, the privatisation and Statement of the State is a state-owned German company and the ‘FRAPORT’ is a state-owned German company, and the ‘COSCO’ is a Chinese company and the ‘FSI’ is now, Minister, an Italian company. I'm not saying if these privatisations are good or bad. There is more to privatize and more to statize from other states. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the OSE and about how our rail transport can be made - our OSE, our trains - better, more qualitative, safer, more competitive. You will allow me, then, to say that as a Greek MEP, I always have serious reservations when a government refers to projects that have had rails. We creep on the rails, you know. There is a distrust from my side, and also from the citizens of Thessaloniki, whom in recent decades you have seen as citizens living on a barren line somewhere in the wild West. And there in the wild West sitting patiently waiting, looking naturally into the mirrors that you have shared them - recently in the ICU and those that have passed - they are waiting happily to come the big, iron horse that is no longer from the metro. You the few who are now here and you the still fewer in proportion - are you four and the Minister together five - did not exist in that country? So, the subway from whom did it start? Now I hear it's nobody's fault, it's not SYRIZA's fault, it's not your fault, it's not PASOK. Hey, it's our fault! It's Velopoulos' fault! We get it on us, guys, that the subway has been delayed because of us! I was uprooted now and saw that in 1986 Couvelas first spoke! Mr. Kouvelas, the son is not here. We're talking about 1986! It's been almost thirty - eight years since! The metro was auctioned in 1992. In 2003 it was decided to build as a public project and in 2006 it started its construction. We are in 2019 and you are still fighting with each other, mocking a whole people, over a million people in Thessaloniki. You have not mentioned anything about how many businessmen have been destroyed and closed their shops, because Thessaloniki has been a vast construction site in the last ten years. No respect for the biopalestors, the micro-enterprises that have been destroyed in recent years because of the metro. I will not go into the ratification of the agreement and incorporation. Both the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, and our special speaker Vassilis Villiardos, said them extremely well. You'll allow me, before I go very seriously, to make a little mention of Mrs. Keramea. I am pleased to read today: 'Great internet in all schools'. And, of course, it advertises the fast internet. He posted it on Facebook on Twitter. There's like underneath. So after we solved all the problems, ladies and gentlemen, in our schools, after Mrs Keramos told us - to be good for the Council of State - what will happen with the return of Religiouss, what will happen with the upgrading of our history or with the lesson of the Ancient Greeks, which are essential issues, we are talking about a fast internet in schools today and we forget that this fast internet will enable children to use it through an ancient computer, which corresponds to three, four students! But we have internet! We forget that the European Union has taken out our fifteen-year-old students, Mrs Kerameou, operatingly illiterate! These illiterates, however, have a fast internet! And you've been telling us about functional and fast internet, when, Mrs. Kerameos, in the 24th Municipal School of Evros there have been children who have been teaching in the last eleven months - not 11 months, but 11 years - in a closed gym, which is divided in the middle with a curtain, half is a gym and half is a teaching room! Come on up, Mrs. Keramos, get out of your offices to see the real conditions that prevail outside and then put - of course we applaud - and fast internet! I'm gonna need one, and a half more than my time, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I shall refer to something last. There are marketing and entrepreneurship seminars in unemployed immigrants and refugees. In other words, what you have denounced as opposition, now that you have the chair of authority is doing it. And I refer to you, the Members of the New Democracy. There are free seminars, ladies and gentlemen - listen out there - with our money, the Greek people, to illegal immigrants coming undisturbed! Apparently, they are Mr. Marda's new investors who come here. Teacher you've taught, and you're out of order! I want to make a comment now. Instead of motivating our children, the six hundred thousand Greeks who are abroad because here they didn't see hail and bring them back, you do seminars for illegal immigrants. Instead of finding a decent job in the one million Greeks who are unemployed at the moment in their country, we give incentives and seminars to illegal immigrants, ladies and gentlemen! That is what you say to them now, namely 'death immigrants'. The New Democracy is like an old JRC, i.e. an internal and external JRC. We have the New Democracy of the Interior and the New Democracy of Foreign Affairs. The New Democracy of the interior is this pro-patriotic party which defends the country, but abroad Mr Mitsotakis is in Europe's cheques and what Germany says. You're confusing us! Are they illegal immigrants, according to Mr Voridis and Mr Georgiadis, or are they refugees? To decide exactly what you want! Tell us. However, the 'NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC' tells them 'laughter immigrants'! And what are you doing now? You fill the country with illegal immigrants! We only had a mass invasion yesterday, with nine hundred and thirty-seven people in one and a half days in the northern Aegean. There is a statement yesterday from the President of the Lesvos Police Officer, who sees the boats coming. In Moria thirteen police officers - listen a little to the number - account for thirteen thousand illegal immigrants! Thirteen cops for thirteen thousand immigrants! In Bajori, in the 2nd district of Thessaloniki - of course, this is a barren line for you, don't you care - have you asked them? You told them they'd get out of there. Illegal immigrants haven't left yet. Why don't you get them out of there? There are two other structures in the Volvi lake, another thousand five hundred people! Decide what you will do with this, which is very important. I am pleased to hear Mr Mitsotakis, who mentioned last Friday the Australian example.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u119	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u120	I'm done. He said: 'Can you see, Mr. Varoufakis, in Australia approaching a boat with illegal immigrants?' So thank you for finally following the Greek Solution program. We're clear. Close borders, follow Australian model, close NGOs. And so that you don't look at the program of the Greek Solution - well you do - on the ground floor office 51, send someone of yours to give him our program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis has the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is in fact the second bill introduced by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport within two and a half months. I think it is the best example that, unfortunately, the previous government has not managed to resolve them, even when it legislated. It has acted in such a rough manner that, in fact, there were inappropriate bills. I would remind you that the first bill passed in this House concerned diplomas when, for about ten months, a hundred and five thousand fellow citizens could not obtain driving licences. This is also a second example, when, for about two and a half years, three European directives could not be incorporated. The government had not taken the initiative to integrate. I would remind you that Directives 2016/797 and 2016/798 should have been incorporated into Greek law since 16-6-2019, while Directive 2016/2370 should have been incorporated since 25-12-2018. And not just that. The European Commission had already sent a letter of formal notice for failure to notify transposition measures into national law of Directives 2016/798. It was the infringement 2019/190. Unfortunately, our country has fallen into a second violation, due to the non-incorporation of Directives 2019/194, precisely because of the uncertainty of the SYRIZA Government. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. I, too, wondered why the SYRIZA Government two and a half years ago did not incorporate these directives. Of course, what was heard in committee and in plenary on so-called consultation does not apply, because all that existed, as the Minister quite rightly said, was just a post on the Ministry's site. Of course, there are many reasons for thinking. But what is as a result and everyone can draw its conclusions is that in these two and a half years that have not been incorporated in these two directives, we have finally come to have a monopoly on a private company. We must also talk about more technical issues. I shall supplement the very good analysis by our rapporteur. It is, of course, about incorporating these three directives. The main changes introduced are the liberalisation of passenger transport markets. The ability of the 100 members to choose between horizontal or vertical infrastructure governance structure. Of course, the institutional framework in the area of interoperability and rail safety is recast and competences are conferred on the European Union Railway Agency, the ERA, concerning the approval of ERTMS pre-approval vehicles and the issue of safety certificates to railway undertakings. In particular, with the first and second part of the draft legislation, interoperability is technical harmonisation in the railway sector in order to achieve the gradual opening-up of the market. The necessary arrangements for this are, of course, included in this part of the bill. In particular, the first directive regulates important issues, such as the conclusion of cooperation agreements between the Agency and national safety authorities of vehicles. The procedures in force shall be clarified, both for the notification of existing and new national rules and for their assessment by the Agency. The procedure for the preparation of technical specifications for interoperability, the procedure for approving the placing on the market of fixed railway installations and for placing on the market of railway vehicles, the definition of European registers and the adequacy of conformity assessment bodies with national rules shall be mentioned. The second directive clarifies the role and responsibilities of the stakeholders, namely the Member States of the Agency, infrastructure managers and railway undertakings in the railway system. It clarifies the process of certification and safety approval, establishes a new mechanism for concluding cooperation agreements between the Agency and the Member States through national safety authorities. It clarifies the role of the national safety authority, which is the RAA, and the accident and incident investigation body and clarifys the procedures to be applied for the notification of national safety rules as well as the assessment carried out by the Agency. With the third directive, we are actually opening up the internal market for rail passenger transport to the governance of railway infrastructure and to the services of general economic interest in the railway sector. The objective, of course, is to effectively complete the internal market for rail services, to strengthen the competitiveness of European railways, to provide safe and quality services to citizens. In essence, with the third part of the bill, a coordinating mechanism is introduced to improve efficiency in cooperation between actors. Clear rules of independence and transparency are introduced to the basic tasks of the infrastructure manager governing the placing on the market of railway services and, of course, the role of national regulatory bodies in protecting competition and users' rights is strengthened. As regards the level of infrastructure governance, I think it strengthens the independence of the infrastructure manager and was clear both in the debate in committee and in plenary. At market level, competition is ensured by giving Union railway undertakings the right to railway infrastructure in all Member States, with a view to carrying out internal infrastructure transport services, i.e. breaking the monopoly. As far as high-speed services are concerned, I believe that the particular importance of these services is recognized to promote the optimum use of the available infrastructure and, of course, to encourage the competitiveness of high-speed passenger services and various services and products. New rules on the competition of passenger rights and the proper functioning of the market are also ensured. The scope of supervision of the Regulatory Authority for infringements and infringements of legislation and unfair competition is widened, and its competences are, of course, clarified. I think that all these regulations which are introduced, ladies and gentlemen, through these three directives, are necessary, as we have already explained, both to open up competition on this rail network across Europe but, of course, to ensure the safety of all these transport. I think we do not need to analyse further why it is crucial national and geopolitical to develop strong railways in Greece, which will, of course, be environmentally friendly. The Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure is already moving in this direction. In fact, we are also at your disposal, and I and the Minister, if you wish, at some point, to open up a more general debate on this project at a possible meeting, especially in committee, to have a more thorough debate, because time is limited. In any case, I would expect all the sides of the House to adopt and vote for this bill, because it is essentially about incorporating directives which most of the previous speakers have said were necessary to go in this direction. We believe that once again we have moved very quickly as a new government to incorporate three directives into our own national law, which should have been incorporated about a year ago. Unfortunately, the previous government, for its own reasons, managed to delay so much, so that we have all these warning letters from the European Union and once again our country seems to be in fact very far behind in incorporating the directives. In any case, I think this is a step forward in relation to this issue, in relation to rail safety and interoperability. I think that with this step in the coming months and in the years to come we will be able to meet one of the main priorities of our country, the development of the railways, now be ready and be in an equal position with the other European countries as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of Mera25 Mr. Varoufakis, let me inform him that after Mr. Varoufakis, Mr. Bukoros will speak and Mrs. Perka has asked for a second word from SYRIZA. Mrs. Perka, do you get two or three minutes, or do you want as much as you're entitled?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, I need five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u125	Do you want five minutes? We've got another session at 7 p.m. Good. And you, Mr. Goka, will normally have your time. Mr. Varoufakis, come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a very brief reference to a tragic event today. After President Trump's decision, the US troops leave the Kurds in their luck. You know very well what is happening at the Turkish and Syrian borders. It is a grim moment for the Kurdish people. I think that all the wings of this House should think about what is going on right now and ask whether the policy of the previous government and the current government, that we are giving it all to the powerful to get backing and supporting us at the difficult times, whether this fantasy remains alive. Let us not forget that the Kurdish fighters were the only ones who supported US policy in Syria and now we see how they were left to their fate, ready to be slaughtered from the Turkish troops on the one hand and from the ISIS on the other. I am sorry, Mr President, for using this opportunity, but I think this is a difficult time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u127	It's your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u128	So let us talk about rail, the only technology that really connects in the 19th century with a view to green growth in the 21st century. Reading the bill, Minister, I was thinking of a genius of Mahatma Gandhi. When he had asked what his opinion on British culture was, he said: "It would be a very good idea." I too, reading here about the European integrated rail network, thought of what a good idea that would be. Unfortunately, this is not a directive that promotes a unified European rail network. I wish. We, as a European party, would support it. Unfortunately, we are talking about a systematic deterioration of the European Union's railways. It is an idea, which is behind this directive and from previous directives, an ideal that is against realism, with hidden interests of inefficient, semi-solid private companies hiding behind it. Look, because I don't want to talk with slogans, let me explain. Reading the directive, we see a huge paradox, a contradiction which a first-year student can see. On the one hand, they talk about economies of scale, the promotion of economics through interoperability, etc. And on the other hand, they're talking about competition. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these two are not going together. When you have a natural monopoly, which is by definition a railroad, you cannot promote at the same time - neither God and his angels can come down to the Greek Parliament, to the German Parliament, to the French Parliament - it is impossible to promote the economies of scale on the one hand and competition on the other. The definition of natural monopolies, you will allow me to say, is a rail network, where fixed costs are huge in relation to marginal costs and where average costs fall as much as the network is developing. In such a market, the monopoly or a monopoly, which is essentially a monopoly, is a legal basis, unless you follow the horizontal model, which you say you will follow, which goes completely against the idea of the economic scale. The result in the British model, for example, when Britain was actually broken by region and each region was delivered to an inefficient private monopoly, is that today it is the British railways, after this standardization that you show up or want to show up as ideal, in a much worse situation than it was thirty years ago. Even our friends, your friends, Conservative Party politicians admit, behind closed doors, when microphones are not open, that the renationalisation of British railways is required. Look, there is another dimension, which is increasingly important environmental, but also economic data. The dimension of externalities. I read the phrases of this circular, of this bill, and I really can't believe they're still talking - and it's not your fault, because I know that you just translated it from English - to trade, to deal with these companies on purely commercial criteria. What does that mean, when they are actually talking about preventing State aid? In fact, what they admit is that there will never be any possibility for the European Union to take serious account of externalities. In other words, the external economies and the fact that, when you launch a state-of-the-art train between Athens and Thessaloniki, this immediately has huge economic and ecological advantages and a reduction in ecological and economic costs as regards the use of diesel, congestion, accidents, etc. In other words, you have brought us a circular that destroys basic economic and basic principles of ecological consciousness. And not to talk in general, do a comparison of what has happened in the European Union since 1990 - which has introduced this culture of trade and the abolition of State subsidies and State monopolies and the replacement of the State monopoly, not with competition, but with private monopolies, whether national or state - and so what has happened in the European Union as compared to other regions of the Earth. If you see the European Union's railroads today, they're crying. If we take Europe's map and see where there are TGVs, too modern rail connections, it is very little compared with China. In China for the last eight years - you know, I imagine - twenty thousand kilometres of rail have been built, traveling over 30 miles an hour. It's twenty thousand miles. How many were built in Europe? Not even two thousand. We, as Europeans, must be ashamed of the way in which the idea of competition and the introduction of the market into the railways have essentially made the European railways on the continent that discovered them and developed them inactive essentially outside Europe's development model. I'm not saying the public nature of the railroads is panacea. Look at the United States, where ‘AMTRAK’ is a public undertaking. It's triumphant. What I am saying is that publicity and the universalisation of planning, in the context of a development model that goes beyond rail, is also about forms of electricity production, renewable sources and all that. The public nature of the railways is therefore necessary, but it is not a suitable treaty to have serious railways. What we see in Europe, in countries like Germany, in countries such as France, where the railways are essentially state-run, SNSF, Deutsche Bank, etc.Huh? We see an incredible deterioration of them, with very low investments. Yes, they're state-run, but they're weakened and there's no investment in them. Why? Because of the austerity, which started in Greece and which passed as a political and ideology in Germany too - and in particular in Germany. On the other hand, we see private companies in Europe being equally triumphant. In other words, there is no development plan in which a public rail pan-European network is an integral part. So by bringing this directive here basically what do you say? You say that the Europeans have brought us through, we have to move on. And what are you doing? You make two attics at the price of one. The first problem is that you are basically in agreement with the European policies condemning the pan-European railways. And secondly, in our country, our rail network is only interested in some British hobbyists who, instead of going to museums, come to see our own trains. I am serious, there are also tourists, especially saying, 'Come see an ancient train'. In a country, in the 'Memorandum', the SYRIZA government - and this is something you will apologize for and you will have to apologise for many decades coming - sold out the UAE trains for a sum that has been volatile, in a bankrupt, as we have heard before, a semi-democratic Italian company, which does not have to put up a euro. In this context, therefore, in this reproach, the problem is that a European directive should be added. Like the Greek Memorandum and the Greek austerity following their successful implementation in "Greek" they were transferred and constituted the fifthness of austerity policies in the centre of Europe, in Germany, in France, in Italy, of course, we have the development of the underdevelopment of our railways through this directive. We want nothing more than a pan-European rail network operating within a more comprehensive vision of the green transition. We are deeply European. We would fly from our pleasure if we could vote for a European directive that is good for Europe and is good for Greece, it is good for the European railways and it is good for the Greek railways. What you have brought, however, is not part of it. A little observation. Do you remember with a previous Mitsotakis government the story with mobile telephony and OTE? Then OTE was still state-run. Two private companies had come to mobile telephony, PANAFON and TELECET, if I remember correctly, and the previous Mitsotakis government had banned the state-owned OTE from setting up a third mobile telephony company. Do you remember that? As you go to do now, forbid the OSE to compete with private individuals on the lines of the OSE. And what happened next? There was a PASOK government, which authorized 'COSMOTE', since of course the privatisation of OTE was under way. I guess that's what's gonna happen here. First you will privatize the OSE and then to the buyer who will have bought it, you will also be able to introduce a third three-seat company that competes with the existing three-score companies. And they will be triumphant, Minister. That's a very simple reason. The money. Investments. The companies that will come here do not have to invest the 3-4 billion that the Greek rail system needs. Let's be clear. If we do not come 3-4 billion to invest in this thing called the Greek railroad, there will be no development of the Greek railroad. The private people aren't coming. The market is not large enough. If the Greek railway is not included in a pan-European framework, a real public European system, we will not see a white day with regard to railways. This means that the world will continue to be killed on the streets, we will continue to pollute the environment, we will continue to be particularly inefficient. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two visions here. There is the vision of monumental bipartism, mining, gas pipelines, streets, highways, cars, diesel. Take Crete, for example, to which our rapporteur from Heraklion referred. We're talking about the north road, building a huge highway again, expanding it, having more cars and more trucks and more pollution. Build a huge airport in Kastelli, where we'll build other roads to interconnect. The complete cementation of Crete. This is the one vision, one Greece. There's another vision, our vision. Electricity everywhere. In the context of renewable energy sources, a public rail network. And since I referred to Crete, imagine there we had a modern train, which connects Chania to Sitia, with small lines that go vertically and at the same time, abolish this pharanonic new airport in Kastelli, with smaller air structures, so that Crete can join a green development framework, stop this story and this whole great island from electing diesel, which is happening at the moment, to stop the idea of the destruction of Libyan and Cretan Sea through mining. This is the second vision. Unfortunately, once again, the rest of the House is giving us, Mera25, the monopoly to be against mining, to be in favour of radical humanism for immigrants, and now to promote solutions that are pan-European for our trains, for railways, which are in line with a real development model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, may I ask Mr Varoufakis a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u131	No, Mr. Comrade. And if he wants to, we can't. Mr Bukokouros from New Democracy has the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I am sorry to note, ladies and gentlemen, that in such an important debate on the railway - which did not gain the attention of the National Representation, let us not hide - there have also been ambiguities that have also been found fraudulent. I will start from the last ones heard in the Chamber on state or private corporations. The history of the railroad, both in Greece and in Europe, of failed state models and successful private models, as well as vice versa, is found. I therefore think that it is not so much the label, but the framework of operation of all these companies. We have heard here that the 'COSCO' that came to Piraeus is a state-owned Chinese company. We have heard that the 'DEUTSCHE TELEKOM' which participated in the privatisation of OTE is a German state-owned company. We have heard that Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane is a semi-stated Italian company. Of course it is. However, they ignore those colleagues who are making this approach that these companies were working and still working on purely private economic criteria. The private economic criteria governing their operation have led them to extroversion. On the other hand, I regret to note that I have no big Greek company working on these criteria in mind. They used to feed the budgets with deficits over time. The malignancy of the Greek state, the rousphetti and all that at workers' level and at contractors' level etc. They were always recorded in the course of these companies. And because we hear the criticism from the left and because some of you have a Mao's past, I would ask you to deepen Mao's word about the color of the cat, that is, it doesn't matter if it's white or black or the cat, but if it works mice. So deepen up. I think you will be taught and that you will be making new approaches. We have heard again at the same wavelengths criticism that these agreements we are signing today, these conventions with the European Union, this integration into our national network is opening up - it says - only on the market. What's the market for the train? It's not the goods and passengers, it's the cargo and the passenger, the two tracks that give life to the railroad? In the opening for goods and for passengers, the agreements in question are facilitated. On whether it will be private or state-owned, we say the infrastructure remains in the state. But the Greek state railroads did! Because I don't know what English conservatives are saying behind closed doors, and if we're recording them too. But I know the historical reality of our country. The extension of the railroad began in 1882 on Charilaos Trikoupis, after canceling the four agreements made by Koumoundouros a year earlier. The malicious indifference of discontinuity goes far away in this country. And on the railways, there really has to be a consensus and a continuity. It's the rail network. It did not gain in competition with technological developments. He never succeeded in Greece gaining more than 4% of the passenger and freight work. It was then the choice of mountain mapping. If the field had been drawn, the Greek railway might have been more viable, but the mountain and disadvantaged part of the country would have been permanently isolated. We cannot, in other words, make either easy criticism or easy approaches today. From there on, if you want a private example, the first concession contract for large public transport projects in Greece, with complete success and self-financing and sustainability, was the Thessaloniki railway. It was built with private capital. It worked as a company until 1926. He was then granted to TEK on the Railway of the Hellenic State. The rest of the technological advances came in. It began to set that bright example. We cannot make such easy and reckless historical approaches or alter history. In any case, Greece's morphology is not available for the development of an economic railway. Today, however, new opportunities are presented. Because the question, as I said before, is not whether the companies will be private. So, in a public infrastructure that OSE holds today, if we bring in more companies and do not just keep TRAINOSE, will we not move more goods and passengers? Won't we have more ecology and more economy than leave a private monopoly? For the "TRAINOSE" I would expect more cautious criticism, because the New Democracy - PASOK, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, had achieved a price of 350m euros, and SYRIZA's government was here to delegate the transport project with just 45m euros. The difference between these two amounts, the 300 million, would suffice to complete the electrification on the part of the Greek railway. I'll talk again about the Thessaloniki railroad. What did the SYRIZA government do for four and a half years? There are two sections there: Volos - Larissa and Paleofarsalou - Kalambakas, waiting for their electrical movement. Four times the SYRIZA government announced the tender of the project "Volus – Larissa Electricity". He left the government and we haven't seen the studies yet. There was a study modification there. The fact is, we've been late for four and a half years. For four years, the SYRIZA government has announced the compatibility of the Paleofarsalo - Kalambaka project for electromobility. He left the government, and the compromise has not been reached. It is easy to criticise and say "we went to Hayios when we found funding and when we found the studies mature and the others", but it is very difficult when we are faced with our announcements to convince that we have really done work. Of course, I have heard SYRIZA and other smaller parties say, regardless of what the European framework says, that we can make a national train policy. Indeed, we can. We can also train, as I have heard before, to do in Crete. If we want, we can connect them to the Dodecanese with the railroad as long as we pay them. The Minister has explained to you exactly what the financial framework for the trans-European networks is. The European financial framework finances projects that are part of the transEuropean networks. From the Public Investment Programme we can do whatever we want, if we agree. But from what Public Investment Program? The one that SYRIZA disfellowshipped? We are coming here today and we are saying that we should make a national policy to reconstruct and modernise outside European networks, i.e. outside European funding. From what Public Investment Program? What - if you want - did the SYRIZA government completely pay off with other political goals, of course? This is the situation today and we are now hearing - which is why I have spoken about delusions before - of railway Egnatia. Why isn't what Mr Karamanlis told you? The rail link between Alexandroupolis and Burgas and, more generally, the Black Sea, the vertical roads, which will strengthen the country's geopolitical position? Can't you see the "Sultan" across the street that he dreams of Istanbul canals to completely shift the geopolitical axis? Should we be talking today about an Egnatia railway when, with the revision of Turkey, all the conditions known are at risk? With the Montreal Treaty, shipping through the border of the Bosporus is free. Now he's announcing canals. One drops it, one announcing it, one starts it, one doesn't start it. It shows, however, a tactic that they have a strategy to move the geopolitical axis further. And we have the opportunity, as the Minister has told you here, to promote the vertical railway lines and bring geopolitical interest towards the side of our country. And we're announcing Rail Trains, without any feasibility and sustainability study, so to say some delusional ones. We could say a lot about the history of the railway and about what the real potential is. In the end, does it matter how many companies will come and who will they be? It is about coming more companies to a public infrastructure, bringing work and work to the country. I have been lucky to come from Volos, which has had a railroad inside the port for over a hundred and twenty years. For 20 years! And he based his development, at least pre-war, on this huge infrastructure. Today we acquire other ports with railway connection: Piraeus, Volos, Alexandroupolis, Thessaloniki. Instead of seeing how we get the jobs, in other words how we create sustainable freight centres to cross trade by Greek hands, we ask for a return to state structures and other such strange things that do not work. We should take the next step as well, because the profit is not to pass the container, the container, from Greece. The profit is to stay here and assemble the products. And again I say the example of Volos: port - railway, two industrial areas, from which the rail system passes. Do we not see today that there are countries in the European Union, formerly eastern, such as the Czech Republic, which specialise in assembling these moving products off the silk road or elsewhere, adding significant percentages to their GDP? So the second thing we need to do is not only transiting goods, but assembling them. So let's open the horizons, let's see what the real potential is. And, when we talk about projects, we should speak, as the Minister, Mr Karamanlis, has said, about sustainability and feasibility studies. Because I don't know if the Greek people are ready to pay rail or any other projects. Roads end slowly in our country, so we can concentrate more on rail. So I do not know whether the Greek people are prepared to pay for unsustainable projects from their latitude. I therefore conclude by saying that the specific directives that we are incorporating today into national law are, firstly, antitrust and, secondly, interoperable. Because a functional and competitive railroad is the future railroad, which we have not seen in the past, with results like what we have described today, but without taking the cost of the developments, because we have come to blame for the lack of provision of railway connections to the Ryu-Antirio bridge. And we heard this criticism from SYRIZA. I'm sorry, the political area that you succeeded in most of, especially in fans and less in executives, was the space that neglected this prediction, so that today this project is uneconomical and is not financed by the European Union. That's the reality. You will not see things from the perspective that suits you every time, so that we can finally get to know each other in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, too. As far as I can see, almost all the special speakers want you to talk. I'll give you three minutes. I would ask you very much to keep up with the time, because the time has passed. At 17.00' we must be here again and we must first think of those who have made us the honor of being present and present here, who must also rest, but also the officials who will stay until 12.00' in the evening and above. Mrs. Theophiste Perkas from SYRIZA for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u134	I'll try to reach agreement, too. But, in order to reach agreement, we need to see a little bit where we are. Now the debate on rail and historical and mistakes has been opened. How does a country with this geostrategic position have a debt of 320 billion, bankrupt, entered the memoirs? A large part is the comparative advantages of the country that have not been exploited. One of these is the part of transport, because of the geostrategic position. And what transport? I am talking about freight transport, particularly, and I am talking about rail. Three Community Support Frameworks, one NSRF "done" on roads. And that was a choice. And it was either because there were contractors who wanted to make the roads or the automotive industry, etc. Wait a minute, because all of a sudden today we're talking about railroads, like it's an idea that's now born. Many speakers have said so. Everyone swears on the railroad. But, let's see, you know how many financial corrections, i.e. fines, have the country returned over time, why were they giving money from the First Community Support Framework to make the country rail and it wasn't? That's for the story. I will insist a little on that, because I would like to reply to the Minister, who said, quite rightly, about feasibility studies. I said it in my introduction. The feasibility study is if the project comes out, if the project doesn't come out, if it's of interest. It matters. But, before that, there is strategic planning, economic vision and political targeting. "Where is the country taking it?" state a strategic planning for transport. And it makes measurements and makes a national model to see if the Perimaclads with this area have to make a highway or make a small road or we have to set up a train. These are international practices and scientific ones, but they have a lot of political substance. Minister, you referred to the Jaspers. I think the Jaspers had them at the Ministry when I was Secretary General for the first time. And what did we do? We put down the strategic transport plan with SRSS. It's not simple. What does that mean? It will not come out of every Minister and every Prime Minister and it will announce works and it will say 'it seems good to me'. It should result from this strategic planning. In other words, the Prime Minister of the country cannot speak of fly over, the raised in the foreign territory of Thessaloniki, which is not part of any design, is with the eye. You know transport and transport techniques have rules. It's a very serious science. He wants measurements, he wants models, he wants us to see where we're going with it. When you're making a road, you know that's where you'll attract more traffic. It's a lot of issues. With the Jaspers, then, Minister, they came to a Ministry of Transport, where there was no concept of'sustainable urban mobility' as a concept, not as part, as an organic unit, as anything, of what the European cities we all travel through, on bicycles, on nice streets. So we are here, and we are doing the SBAKs, at the level of strategic planning. We got seventy mayors involved. It's a lot we've planned on a strategic level. Some works may take applause and ministers may rejoice because they really look, but strategic planning may not appear in a government and appear later. But it is what saves both the economy of the country and the country. You have now spoken of the Egnatia railway, while the parliamentary representative spoke of Burgas - Alexandroupolis. I would like to tell you that Ormeni - Alexandroupolis - Burgas is part of the Egnatia railroad, which, as I said, recently, is financed by the CEF in order for studies and construction to be carried out. We're expecting more of these projects, but you have to go. And we have construction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u135	Studies finance CEF.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u136	I'm looking forward to it. I think we have construction too. In any case, when CEF finances something, it will obviously also finance the construction. We said he made a choice not to have trains. That's it. Someone said about the Peloponnese. Do we know that in the Peloponnese, there was no case for interoperability? We talked about the strategies. I'll say the other one. Once again, and I agree with you, the country must acquire shopping centres and assemble ensembles, because they are going to neighbouring countries. It's developmental. It's very nice. That's why we went ahead with the Triumphant. However, we had moved on and the "Gonnos" Camp in Thessaloniki. Because, you know, freight centres, if they do not join a network, do not work. In other words, the area of Thessaloniki definitely wants a freight and then Larissa is likely to. Still, he wants a plan. The Prime Minister of the country comes out, ignoring the design that exists...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u137	Logistics...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u138	Logistics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u139	Please keep up with the times. Finish it, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u140	I think I have the right to. I'm on deuterology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u141	The truth is, you have it. I asked you to keep the time in three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u142	I'm trying, but a lot has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Buquoir, please. Carry on, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u144	The "Gonnos" Camp cannot be done other than planning, which is a freight centre. It cannot be a free economic zone all of a sudden, while we have prepared it for a freight centre, if we want logistics, freight transport, etc. Two words about the Thessaloniki metro, which has started from the hole in Kouvella, a work with a concession contract that has never been successful, by a study system - which is not prejudicial to such projects. I'm from Thessaloniki. I lived in Thessaloniki for too many years. Today the international trend is in situ the ancient ones. In Italy, which is a neighbouring country and I have searched it, which is also a country with many antiquities, technical science is being improved. But I'll say the other one. Let's say we disagree with this proposal. They'd better leave. Is it possible, after so many years, that the metro has gone ahead and in 2020 would work without the Venizelos stop - 5 million have been dropped, studies have been carried out -, should we go back, divide the city and reopen the conversation with only one benefit, as I see it? Just one! Request public delay clauses from the contractor, from the contractor. A lot I could say, but I'll finish by answering everything that has been said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u145	We made you nervous. The truth is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u146	I'm not nervous, because I know I have a right to talk a little more, just a minute. They've heard inaccurate. It makes sense, because if anyone is not familiar with the part of the trans-European networks, this misunderstanding can be made. I insist and say: This most important directive - for both, I imagine, with the technical characteristics I think most of them agree - what exactly does it do? It also liberates an already open market at the level of directives, but in our country there is only one company, the 'TRAINOSE', the Italian one. And therefore, if we do not want to liberate further, we want to protect this domestic monopoly. I don't suppose that's anyone's intention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u147	You don't tell us that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u148	I'm not telling you. I'm addressing others. As far as the model of 'determination' or 'horizontalisation' is concerned, the directive - as the speakers have already said - clearly leaves the margin of choice. This is where it depends and what you have. I will tell you that a model of a vertical organisation was the OSE with its companies, which has all 16 billion euros. So it was a bad management. Another failed model of vertical organism was Britain's privatisation, as I mentioned, with many accidents. The network was left. There are, of course, the French railways, which are a very good vertically integrated model. So it's what fits a country. I would like to stress, however, that if today - and it is not a permanent option - the situation in the country prejudges the horizontal model - because that is what we have - it does not mean that the public cannot make a company and get permission and enter the rails. That doesn't mean. Of course he can. In other words, it does not close the competition. On the basis of the directive, that is, the margin.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u149	You got what you're entitled to and a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u150	Okay, I'm stopping. I have more to say, but I'll stop here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Gocas has the floor from the Change Movement. Mr. Goka, three minutes is that enough? Now, you'll tell me that I let the previous speaker speak for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I will try to be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u153	I wish. I put three minutes and I would ask you not to escape.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u154	First of all, I should like to begin with the amendment that we tabled and to express my regret that it has not been accepted. I think it is a disappointment for many of our fellow taxpayers, who have been afflicted in the past few days, have been afflicted and have not finally been able to take part in the regulation, because there are many objective problems, Minister. Don't see a date and a time frame. There are many specific issues, there are issues relating to sustainability for many professionals, for many businesses, there are practical issues, especially for legal persons, who have not been able to do all of these things within this short time. I do not think we should have such an obsession at a time limit when there are three months by 31 December. Many more fellow citizens would join in, be facilitated to solve problems and be able to develop their activities, and I think it would also be in favour of state revenue. I think that saying that there is the possibility within a week of extension, that everyone who had been late, should be included, means that we do not have contact with reality. And the operators, the professionals of the industry, but also the taxpayers themselves, can assess it. I hope that you will see this again, along with our proposal for the standing arrangements for the insurance funds and that it will be corrected in the next few days. As far as the other issues are concerned, we have received some answers. On many issues, however, we did not receive any specific answers, especially with regard to the internal networks. We will come back to this debate. We'll have a chance in next bill, I believe. I think, however, that the development of the internal networks, together with the interconnection with the Balkans and other European networks, is a matter that certainly needs to obey both the technical and economic studies, the parameters and the cost-benefit ratio. However, we must not ignore the possibility that the regions of our country should have for balanced development. I shall refer to Epirus, which is my region. There's infrastructure, there's port, there's highways. A combination of networks, and in this area, would give even greater impetus to what we are calling for, namely, transport, freight, all that my colleagues have described - and very well - before all the features, which will also mean contributing to local and regional development, but also to more possibilities for our country, because each region has one other, its own capacity and can be interconnected with other trans-European networks. I think these are issues that we should look at. I understand that there are also some internal networks issues for certain axes. For the Peloponnese where other colleagues, like Mr Katrinis, have been mentioned, and for electricity. There are, however, other issues in other cases, such as suburban, where there is a crowdedness. These are all issues which need to be dealt with and dealt with. I think we'll have this opportunity to talk about it again. I believe that - as I understand it - there is no preparedness from the Ministry, there is no complete plan at the moment, which will answer the question of rail networks and transport as a whole. Before I close, I would also like to make a reference to the issue of Ryu-Antiri. It is a very large project - a dream for Greece, which has been done over the days of PASOK. At least from what I know, there were certain technical and economic reasons, which for this project, then, did not prejudge the construction of a railway link infrastructure. What I know, too, is that there are technical solutions, if we decide, and if we consider that we should move on to this network in order to deal with and implement this project as well. Rail projects were carried out by the PASOK governments. And in 2010, as I mentioned, the bill that came at PASOK's initiative and inspiration and had to do with the restructuring and resolution of the OSE. And he had included many parts of the unification framework. He was nr.3891 of 2010. It is about continuing, moving forward, improving, in particular, this important rail transport sector, which can effectively help the country's development effort. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr Goka. Mr Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. To sum up, why are we against this draft law? It is simply because it comes to serve the needs of monopolistic groups and not the needs of the people for safe, cheap transport. What is it about incorporating these directives too? The facilitation of monopolistic groups by removing any obstacles which have existed so far and the full harmonisation of legislation with the requirements of the friendly investment environment. What's this investment environment? The people should pay the infrastructure and use the network for both goods and passengers by business groups. So the people will pay the infrastructure and the business groups themselves will gain in the need for both the movement of goods and passenger transport. The friendly environment of course requires cheap labour force. The Minister here said it was a great pleasure that the strike was abusive. Like it's the first time! 99% of strikes come out illegal and abusive, because of the legislative framework that you and SYRIZA have voted for, but also all the governments so far. And what did he say? That we are in a consultation on collective bargaining. He blamed SYRIZA and said he could unlock the issue, which was blocked by the former Minister of Finance of the SYRIZA government. Minister, there have been mobilisations in the previous period on the subject of collective agreements. You have to sit down and solve the issue with the workers. There are also judicial decisions in respect of compensation for those retired. We asked you questions - we told you at the previous meeting - but we didn't get an answer. And, of course, we had not received an answer from the SYRIZA government as well. Workers who left in 2011 until 2014 were entitled to the courts, because the compensation they received was cut. He was reinstated in 2014. Do you intend to bring it back to the workers so that they can be justified, yes or no? You haven't answered so far, even though we've said it many times. And there are too many workers waiting for your answer. Because the 'friendly' environment is this cheap labour force, the smashing of labour rights, it has so far been through the liberalisation policy pursued by all governments since 1991, as we said, with the first directive. We are neither on this railway that existed nor on the one that is now being created. We are with the socialisation of the means of production. And in this form of organization of the economy, transport will play an important role, and rail will be a priority, so that there will be genuinely interconnected transport, to serve the people's needs, which in your own policy can never exist. And, of course, the people's problems with transport and workers' rights will deteriorate through this policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Vassilis Viliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just gonna need a minute, not more. We will also vote against the bill, because we are against monopolies, whether private or public, and especially monopolies from other states. We have said that this is not privatization. What is happening, in other words, with TRAINOSE is not privatization, but is State-run by another state. This is what we are against, how much more when we have to strengthen it every year with EUR 50 million, obviously from the budget. It is not enough that we have this monopoly, but we have created another, when we sold the ETSC to the Italian 'TRAINOSE', so it has a very high power. I would also like to fix something only. I have heard somewhere before that the Italian 'FSI' is bankrupt. It's good to say things the way they are. At least from a small survey I found that in the 2017 balance sheet it had a turnover of EUR 9.6 billion, that it had operating profits of EUR 718 million, net profits of EUR 552 million, and that it had some seventy-four thousand five hundred employees. So you can't call it bankrupt. In addition, in 2018 her employees were up to eighty-two thousand three hundred. So it looks like it's going better. I also saw the evaluation by the 'STANDARD & POOR' S', which was recently - on September 30, if I remember correctly - gives it BBB+, although it has negative prospects. But it clearly states that it is because of Italy. The same assessment is from FITCH, so it is not reasonably bankrupt. So, from this point of view, no one should object. One other thing, the other one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Villardo. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has the floor, Mr Karamanlis. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u160	I will try to be as brief as I can, Mr President. Let us say ten minutes because they have heard enough and interesting things in the Chamber, but I will not get rid of them all. I will, however, start with the JRC. We say something very simple. We say that, in order to be able to ensure the wages that we all want workers to have, these companies must be viable. And you see that in these companies, in the urban transport sector in Greece, from 2015 until 2019, and the SYRIZA policy has increased and the services provided are the worst - and this is what citizens see in their daily lives - in contrast to the previous OSCE administration, which has reduced the cost and increased revenues. You've dropped the ticket fare, that is, the receipts to OSCE, by 50% in four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u161	You are not addressing the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u162	No, I'm doing a more general placement. So I wish we could pay the compensation. We'll see. But - and here is the ideological disagreement with the JRC - we cannot do that from the state budget. So we must once understand, in our personal view and our ideological conviction, that I am giving from what I have. I don't take it from the taxpayers to pay certain working groups. That's the reality. That's how we operate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u163	The businesspeople where are you paying them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u164	But they're not businessmen. S.H.I.E.L.D. is a state-owned company. We told you something very simple. We told you that we received a situation where we had a monkey contract. They were signed by the Minister of Transport, they had been posted to "ERGANI", they were celebrated, the administrations were given to do what they wanted, and Mr. Juliarakis did not sign them. Well, these are not serious things and they do not honor a country that wants to say it belongs to the European Union. And now we're coming to get the snake out of the hole. And we do that. And very soon, I think, we will be happy to find an agreement. We are not happy with the judgments of strikes, but the truth is that millions of our fellow citizens in central Athens, Attica, who use public transport, cannot be troubled here. We are having a dialogue with the companies' administrations, companies' administrations are dialogue with workers and their trade unions. We do the same at the Ministry. Things which have not been solved in four and a half years and which the so-called left-wing government has been mocking workers, now the irreversible right will have to find a solution. Well, he'll find a solution! It will find a fair solution that works for both the benefit of the workers and the social group. For we are in the interests of the many, not the few, whether they are entrepreneurs or trade unionists. Now there is an ideological battle for the railroad. I have heard the President, Mr Varoufakis, who always has a terrible eloquence. What about this, though? Nothing. The railroad says, in America, disgusting in Europe, the state, miserable private. Well, let's turn it off then. I mean, I'm sorry, but, when we're talking, we have to have one for that in our political speech. Don't just say theories here. So then the Greek citizen closes the TV and turns his back on politicians, because we don't say it for that. And we heard theories. We heard theories from KINAL too. What Rio Antirio and what train? What are we talking about here? You put it as PASOK in 2002, you replied in 2011. Because it came out of the trans-European transport networks in 2011. You don't know the history of your party in that particular ministry and you say things that have nothing to do with reality. And you know why you're doing this? And it's not just you, it's also politicians from New Democracy and SYRIZA. You do, because you speak at your local audience, election, to your voters, and you say things that do not apply. The same is true of Mr Katrinis - the good colleague is not here - who talks and subjugation of Patras, who asks what the government's plan is. Twenty years has there been a subjugation in Patras? But are we serious? Twenty years you've been mocking the world of Patras. In 2014 the government of Mr. Samaras had found a solution, to become the “cut and cover” for one kilometer in Patras, and not five. Because five miles to Patra means metro and it has a cost of 1 billion. Who's gonna pay for it? The Patriots? Oh, no. We were going to Europe to ask for money. And what would Europe tell you? Would he fund it? Well, it's obvious he wouldn't finance you on a subway in Patras. Well, let's finally stop the political mockery. You know what I could tell you? Yeah, we're looking at it, how nice it is, giving some money for a study and throwing the can ten steps ahead. Well, I won't, because this party never did that, and it won't now. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] To the SYRIZA rapporteur: I feel that I agree with a lot of what you said - and I must tell you - you are absolutely right, but I think there is a misunderstanding here. Obviously when you were Secretary General for Transport and you started what you started - I don't know who replaced you, or rather I know, but don't go into this conversation now - they obviously didn't go on. The strategic planning of transport - you know that better than I do - is a report of ideas. It was financed by the European Investment Bank and is a report of ideas, which has some general guidelines, but - to God - does not say specific things. And can I tell you something? I fully agree with you, and it will be good for the political world at some point to agree on the important points. Instead of the Secretary-General, the Minister, the Prime Minister, and every three minutes to change the planning, we should sit down if we have a maturity as a political system - I think we have it - and talk about it. I think that the ten-year crisis has finally matured a little - that is what I want to believe - or, in any case, has matured young people. We need to sit down and see what the country's priorities are. I fully agree with you that combined transport is one of the country's comparative advantages, such as tourism, Greek shipping, our ports, the agri-food sector. Yes, these are the comparative advantages, because, what to do, we do not have a heavy industry. We must do what is obvious and what all the serious and organised countries do, that is to say take advantage of our comparative advantages. But when, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you come to me and talk to me about railway Egnatia in the Western Balkans and tell me to unite a project that you have signed, a Memorandum of Understanding, which is a very nice firefly, without telling me what the cost is, without a study, I think we are finally falling back into the same trap of talking out of every reality and just making a political confrontation to tell each other. Here we heard that the Rio-Antirio project was, he says, PASOK! Dear colleague, this work is of the Greek people! It's not PASOK's! Let this peculiarity stop for this work! You cut the ribbon! This work was launched by previous governments! All works do not belong in political areas! They belong to the Greek people, because others plan them, others auction them, others perform them, and others finish them! And I'm the first person I've said it on several occasions!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u165	Obviously, Minister, the work is of the Greek people, but there is also the government that has done so!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Goka, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u167	And by closing for the Thessaloniki metro, because I have heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative refer to it, I would like you to give me two minutes, because it has to close this issue and not say things that do not apply. I, as you quite rightly said, recognise to a very large extent that SYRIZA has finished the major roads, of course by giving EUR 750 million to contractors. With Mr Hatzidakis''restart', the money went to the banks to relaunch the projects. You gave EUR 750 million to the contractors, after the six months of Varoufakiada, because six months after you had done your left-wing experiments, the projects have stopped and this has cost EUR 750 million! Now, of course, you are Europeans! But that cost something. On the roads is a specific number that it cost! Now, the CAS has agreed twice with the original design and has given its opinion on it. Mitsotakis didn't wake up one day in the morning and said something from his head. Secondly, the same solution has been followed by your Government at the "Agia Sophia". You blame us for the ancients. We want an ancient, but we also want a subway. And with this solution, the ancients will be visited and understood by 90% -95%. And it'll finish the subway on a specific date. You said things. One came out and said in 2020, another in 2021, and finally we ended up doing - but I'm sorry to tell you all the time - opening with mustaches! It also has a limit, in our view, on political mockery! We've heard things about studies. Well, the studies have not been given. After all, two and a half years now why did you not proceed with this solution from 2017 onwards? Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u168	It's begun, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u169	You came in 2014 and you were delayed for ideological reasons. You and Mr. Boutaris have turned around and said "change the design" and four and a half years you have not taken a small step, apart from building the so-called "platka", to make the "Venizelos" station. One of your politicians tells you this - if you want - an opponent, who on the other hand tells you that here you have made a huge mistake. You have a huge responsibility. We're trying to find a solution, but on the other hand, I recognize that you did the self-evident thing on the other side of the metro you continued the work. And you did well! But don't level it all. Don't level things because you guys need to pick up the pawn in Thessaloniki for the subway. The point is that the solution you prefer was technically impossible. That is why you were having trouble bringing approved studies and approving them, because, if this solution were possible, you would have gone ahead with it. I did not want to go into a political confrontation, nor do I want to go into it, because I really believe that the transport sector, the major infrastructure projects, does not stand up and should not be politicized. We should actually agree and I am really glad that SYRIZA is voting for these European directives. So let us leave it behind yesterday, because we will be able to speak here for 15 hours about who was to blame and what, if it were to blame for one party or another party or SYRIZA, and let us sit down the people who really want to get this country forward and at least agree on the basics, at least the parties of the so-called 'democratic arch', who have finally realised that the only way, the only solution, is within a European framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is finalised: "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directives 2016/797, 2016/798 and 2016/2370 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, 88 articles, the office article and the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure you have passed all the articles, the hotel article and the entire bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u171	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u172	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u173	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directives 2016/797, 2016/798 and 2016/2370 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u175	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-08-S1-commons.u176	With the consent of the House at 15.16 p.m. the sitting is closed for Tuesday, 8 October 2019, at 17.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 4100/26-92019 on the establishment of a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination pursuant to Rule 86 of the Rules of Procedure Article 3 of the Constitution, Articles 153 et seq. of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on the Judicial Responsibility of the Ministers, as applicable, concerning the investigation of the following offences which may have been committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Dimitrios Papagopoulos in the performance of his duties: 1) a moral autocracy in the misuse of power by physical automobile and direct synergy of judicial officers (Article 46(1) in conjunction with Article 239 PK), (2) a challenge and an offer for the execution of a crime (Article 186 para. 1 and 2 PM), 3) moral automobile in breach of duty and breach of duty (Art. 46(1) and (2) PM), 3) moral automobile in breach of duty and breach of duty (Art. 46(1) and (2) PM), 3) moral automobile in breach of duty and breach of duty (Art. 46(1) and (2) PM), 3) moral automobile in breach of duty (Art. 1 in conjunction with Article 259 PK and Article 259 PK on its own) and 4) PK moral autocracy (Art. 224 para. 2 PM), in accordance with the procedure laid down in the proposal, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
