ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Discussion and vote on the proposal by the Prime Minister to give a vote of confidence to the Government, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 141 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Diamanto Manolakos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u2	You're asking for a vote of confidence. We have never trusted you and deserved you, because you voted in Maastricht and you defend NATO in war and interventions. However, you exceeded yesterday the limits of unconsciousness by signing Mr Tsipras on the day of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples the declaration of anti-communism of the European Council. Shame again. And then you're talking about claiming German debts! You'll never do it, we know it. You follow the same anti-grassroots policy as the previous ones, with different phrases. You have all installed poverty together in the working class and the popular layers with the hundreds of Memorandum Laws. People are still looking for rubbish and let science and technology leap, which can satisfy people's needs. Yes, hunger, poverty, impoverishment live and reign in the twentieth century, which man knows about the moon and learns about Mars. This is the capitalist barbarism, which you all serve and you forsake as the only system to cover that you serve your business groups, their profits and their privileges. And that's in every area of people's everyday lives. Floods in Mandra and in many other prefectures in the country show that money for flooding is not available, because they do not leave profit to capitalists. People are drowning and people are being lost in popular property in every possible sink and the agony is not only for the dirt, and if it is enough for the family, but also embraces the agony of flooding in all the workshops, from Old Reds and the Caminia of Piraeus to Mandra Attica, where we have mourned victims. But what conclusions did you draw from the tragedy in Attica? Because tragedies for the people are not fatal, and let us try to hide behind cohorts, meaningless and boring for the world. For disorientation, you hide under the carpet the essential responsibilities of the political government, state and local administration, leaving the people unprotected. This is confirmed over time, since with different people the people experience the same results, from floods and fires every year. Faces are changing. Plans and protocols are enriched after every great disaster, but the result is the same, dead of fires, floods, earthquakes, along with great catastrophes of popular property. Therefore, it is not only the tax payees, pensioners and self-employed persons, the huge indirect taxes, which are part of the public revenue lion. Nor will the measures announced yesterday by the government alleviate the people. It is the alibi to continue this anti-popular policy in the consciousness of the people. Poverty is about everything, and even the lack of infrastructure, which protects the lives of the people. That is why you are taking every credit from the European Union to promote policy, which breaks labour rights and the level of life. The state proves a little to prevent a disaster. However, there is a clock for infrastructure available to NATO, creating every and every basis for American tax and EUR 4 billion, people's money, for NATO. The state mechanism was nonexistent in Matty, but it exists in the labour struggles. It is a wired machine, when it is called upon to take out illegal strikes, as happened with the trade union in 'COSCO'. The bureaucracy, the inadequate institutional framework and other things that are invoking governments, regional and municipal authorities, when the people claim projects to protect their lives, disappear, when a project is to be done, which serves the monopolistic groups. The current settlement study, which hit Mandra, was delayed for 15 years, but the refreshing of the Faliric Ormos, the window for the tourist capital in Attica, was approved, financed and started in the dawn - erased. The State is very effective in obtaining bloody surpluses, but leaves a rheumatism of any protection infrastructure left in the country. And it's the same state, which sells simple money to business groups. It also rationalizes the same urban state, taking over fire-fighting, leaving the fire-fighting body naked and inside. But you know how to share tax exemptions and development incentives to entrepreneurs, as you have done recently. Therefore, projects necessary and vital for people's neighbourhoods are not eligible for funding, since they are not contributory to construction groups, unlike others, which, from their exploitation, earn over time, such as roads with tolls. The political responsibilities of urban parties, their local and regional authorities cannot therefore be concealed. The tragic findings made by the people can and must act as another safe criterion in the face of the upcoming elections and must send out the message that the people are not tolerated, their vital needs being weighed on the profitability of capital. The whole people must be protected and not the capitalists' profits. In other words, no compromise with life, hunger, uncertainty and insecurity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou and the consistency in time. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mrs Stuboulis from Serres Prefecture, has the floor. Mrs Stuboulis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although the majority of the speakers and speakers have referred to the whole of the government's work, and I say first of all that it deserves our approval, and so this government deserves the vote of confidence in this House, I will devote the time of my speech to the subject of today's debate. I believe that I have gained a relatively good knowledge of this issue, chairing the Subcommittee on Disabled Persons from the Special Standing Committee on Equality in Youth and Human Rights, particularly as regards how they see the regulations, which concern disabled people themselves and those concerned, who are always involved in our meetings, representing their organisations. And it is a general feeling that, despite the shortcomings and delays found, despite the emergence of claims for better regulations, the overall assessment of the work of the present government is positive. Let me say that after Laws 2190/1994, 2643/1998, which was updated in 2005, and n. 4074/2012, which is the ratification of the United Nations Convention and of the Optional Protocol on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we have a series of arrangements, laws and others - I will become tiring, but I think it needs - in Laws 4331/2015, 4389/2016, 4430/2016, 4440/2016 and 4443/2016, 4552/2017, 4488/2017, emblematic, without which the UN Convention remained virtually inapplicable, at the discretion of the organisations of disabled persons themselves. We also have L.4520/2018, 4538/2018 and 4554/2018, together with the necessary ministerial and joint ministerial decisions, which relate mainly to molecules and allowances, that is to say, support for the state, society better, due to support for our fellow citizens and fellow citizens with disabilities, in order to ensure as much a decent living as possible, in principle and social inclusion, both through the removal of exclusions and discrimination, as well as through work. I do not like the term 'equal opportunities'. He's implying that if anyone is deprived of anything, it's the same one who didn't grab a chance. I would prefer equal opportunities for equal participation in society. Are these all kinds of favors? No, of course not. It is due support, as I have said, and conquests, which have proclaimed and won the wheelchair movement over the last few decades. To show up, then, a fellow citizen of ours, an adult and a graduate of higher education, so having full knowledge of his or her words, and to call them all these favors, which he does not want, it is natural to gloat. When this fellow citizen is a candidate for the European Parliament of the Civilian Opposition Party, whose opposition to social solidarity is declared and the abstention of the positive measures in favour of the social groups, which need to be commemorated by confronting the idea of equal opportunities, but which, for those who are suffering from these unfavourable circumstances, simply reproduce the inequalities - declared and the ideology of the Civilian Opposition for Inequality - then there are legitimate concerns that this candidate will support if elected in this House, for which he is intended. And we are talking about a House, the European Parliament, from which more and more issues of our everyday life are being dealt with. When this fellow citizen has already fully benefited from such arrangements, and indeed, with the efforts of the Ministry of Health's leadership, there is also a question of political morality, which is causing reactions. How and from whom these reactions will be expressed is a matter of communication management and not of height, of course, as has been said. And what will be borne by more than two in our crises, namely political morality or communication management, is a matter of the level of social consciousness of each one of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Stuboulis, MP of SYRIZA of Serres Prefecture. The speaker of the New Democracy of Athens Mr. George Koumoutsaskos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone in Greece knows that. Besides, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you don't hide it. The vote of confidence requested by your Chief is nothing but a collective protection shield that all of you want, whether wanting or not, you provide in the behavior of the "flying Sfakian". This behaviour has already been recorded as one of the morbid phenomena of political life. It has even been codified as "Police"! "Policeism" is a concept with much wider, deeper and much more dangerous toxicity than its own body because it is the concentrated expression of the philosophy of division that you have installed in the political life of the country since the first time you claimed authority. Your consistency is really impressive. Since the rhetoric of hatred, the "prostitutes", the "German germanolides", the atrocities of any democracy "or we will end them or end them" and which yesterday reached a new dark depth with the absolutely unacceptable "our democracy and our democracy", you have ensured timelessness, sequence and duration of divisional speech. It's the black line of division that you've installed, as I told you, in the country's political life. Mr Paulakis protested yesterday because the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, said: "Police is a fascism". But let's see what the ingredients of Pollution are? Firstly, the rhetoric of hatred, secondly, authoritarianism, thirdly, demonization of the other and fourthly, his policy "or us or them". Known politician, Jason Stanley, published a very interesting book in 2018. The title is: ‘How fascism works’. The cover subtitle says: 'Its policy 'we and others'. This is how fascism works: With continuous discrimination, the continuous separatist line the constant conflict of "we and them". Therefore, do not wonder when we identify the concept of "Policy" with fascism. Because the element is common and it's just that. The rhetoric of hatred, the division. And you know, the division - to go to the issues of vote of confidence - is the disease, which erods the strongest element of national power that every state, every people: its national unity. The division erodes the national unity, the unity of the nation. And that is why it makes the country very vulnerable to challenges, both internal and external, such as those we have been facing in recent days, to go through the issues of my own sector. Turkey's provocativeness has now hit red. It increases every day. And the predictions are that it will remain, that it will be maintained. It won't be reduced, but it may also be increased. And if we have reached this point, it is due to your mistakes these years. Because you misinterpreted both events and developments and messages. You have interpreted as mere 'neurality' the stability of provocative Turkish policy. Where there was continuity and consistency, you see transientity, so, having misinterpreted, you also did wrong policies. An incomprehensible frustration and an awkward policy of extermination of complex and difficult situations, challenges and violations. And having adopted this logic of exorcism, in order to cope with difficult situations, you have resorted to public relations visits, without substance, without content, only by hand. It is still in memory of all of us the Vaterlo of Erdogan's visit to Athens. And that is what the other side justifies, and it continues with tension, and it continues with provocativeness. That is why we do not trust you to manage such a difficult situation, nor do we trust you to manage the relationship with Albania. Because I still remember there, we all remember the former Foreign Minister saying 'Before I go on holiday, I will have closed it with Albania'. But that's where you were wrong, and that's where there was a ruthless outrage of the situation. Where there was a plan, where there was a challenge from the Tirana government, you saw opportunities to improve relations. And you have been misguided and the Tiranas' behaviour has come, which has spurred tension in the relations between Greece and Albania, to a difficult point, and nothing has yet been done, against the Greek ethnic minority, against our interests, against the notorious or rather infamous, that we do not see coming, an agreement delimiting maritime zones with Albania. Look, because soon it will be decided whether or not Tirana should start accession negotiations, we tell you now: there are no ground, there are no conditions to give assent. Don't do it, it'll be the politics of superstitiousness, extremism and incomprehensible frustration once again. Finally, the Prespes. Thank you for this agreement. Yes, sir. You think it's too good. What is the subject of the Prespecies? It is an identifiable issue, i.e. beliefs, perceptions that regulate this agreement in its essence. And on an identifiable issue you have 80% of the Greek people in front of you, in other words, an issue that concerns beliefs 80% of the Greeks is negative. Is that a success? It is an agreement with severely injured legalization, weak legalization, which the Greeks will never love. You have committed the country to an agreement that the Greeks will never be able to accept. And that's a difficult reality, and that's what we're gonna have to manage. Your balance sheet, therefore, and in the crucial foreign policy issues, is an account, which does not even allow us to think about giving you a vote of confidence, we will not do so and we will not do so, because the bad effect of your foreign policy has been rooted in the philosophy of the division that you have been cultivating for years, thereby affecting national unity. This will, however, end on the 26th day of the month, because the result of the elections will be such that it will give the New Democracy and responsibility, but also the historic opportunity to restore the major, the main, vital element in the course of a nation, which is its unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u7	Thank you Mr. Giorgos Koumoutsakos, MP of Athens, New Democracy. Mr. Nikos Philis, MP SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, when I heard Mr Mitsotakis announcing the motion of censure against Paul Paul Paul, I was so surprised that at first I could not believe it. What an inappropriate gift it was for SYRIZA to turn the Chief of Officer's Anti-Population into a matter of strict criticism, even of criticism to a Minister, in a motion of censure against him, which, in bad lies, rallys every government majority, as it takes on the character of a motion of censure to the whole government. In fact, this is not an issue that relates to his responsibilities, but to his confrontation with Mr Kymbouropoulos on Facebook, in a way that some would judge poor and unfair, and also to Mr Kymbouropoulos himself, if we consider the very important work of the Government and SYRIZA on health, a work that bears the seal of Andreas Xanthi and Paul Paul Paul Paulakis himself. It is an issue that has emerged from the New Democracy, during the debate on the education bill, there have been positions, both at the meeting and in public, and everyone could draw their conclusions. Mr Mitsotakis spoke, the Prime Minister replied, we placed some Members, including myself, and the whole case could be closed there, because the matter was actually closed that day with regard to his parliamentary dimension and his political substance. However, the parliamentary and political logic and the jewels of an unscrupulous, gigantic media system and an invisible official of communists, who are evidently leading Mr. Mitsotakis and who have convinced him that only by methods of Madison ‘Avenios, to remember the saying of the infamous George Mavros in 1974, he will be able to become a Prime Minister. Horrible methods, with the aim of what is called the "donorous character", which have meanwhile been modernized and reached their peak by the various superconservative Trump and Bolsonar type leaders. Remember the campaign with the famous birth certificate of Obama, who had managed to convince a huge part of the American people that he was allegedly born in Africa and that as a Muslim, he would lead an underground campaign for US Muslimism. Unfortunately, from such perceptions, as absurd as they may seem, the modern superservative right is now being blamed. These perceptions, along with xenophobia, racism, blind faith in the market, ungodly anti-communism, delusional religion, build bridges with the extreme right, make Europe, and in the world and in Europe, hybrids of a new radical right, extreme neoliberal in the economy and anti-liberal in social issues. In this constellation, in these perceptions, symbolised by Mr Webber, Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy are increasingly deeply affected. So, some formalities, which Mr Polakis has misguided to me - I have no problem repeating this, after all, have highlighted a number of our Members and officials - it was decided by Mr Mitsotakis and his staff to be, together with his comitology and tombling, the central political account of the New Democracy. Eye, sharper, Paulakis, behold the political peaks - parody and the programming speech - scavenger, in 2019, of a once-in-a-lifetime great party, which wants to be called, but for a long time it has ceased to be, modern, liberal, European centre-right. So, twenty days before the European elections, the New Democracy and its Chief have taken the great political responsibility to prevent, at all costs, dialogue on Europe, elections for the hundred and twenty instalments, tax relief, pensioners' support, development measures and blurred the crisis of citizens with incredible structures, "fake news" and falsehoods, putting in place this aim, which is very painful, the moral advantage of the Left, as if it were possible, once or two misfortune policies or communications, always taking place in all the parties, to eradicate days like these, anti-fascist victory days of the peoples, days when the "Red Army" was triumphant in Berlin, destroying the monster of Naziism, days that we honor our dead in Thessaloniki and its Mayors. Is it possible, then, to erase the moral advantage of the left-wing party, a live-and-minded party, with an invaluable offer to democracy and the prospect of this place? This is a fact that, whatever its size was in the past century, it was never "small" and always found the way through millions of hardships and unspeakable sacrifices to overcome the obstacles of opponents, but also its own maliciousness, mistakes and distortions, keeping open the way to democracy, progress, social emancipation, overcoming capitalism, socialism with democracy and freedom. In these struggles, older and young, the moral advantage of our Left, gentlemen of Anti-Population was forged. And that is what we have decided to safeguard, as an eye daughter, especially now that we are in the government and our society judges, not for what we historically represent or in theory, but for what we are today and today we are doing. The best way of counterpopulation, in order to eradicate or even reduce the moral advantage that you confess to having or even having on the Left, is simply to invoke your own moral advantage. Attention, not in your morality, which we do not question, but in your overall path, which allows you to invoke your moral advantage to us. But you don't. You are not positive about those elements, which constitute your own advantage, but on the contrary, you have been put down in every way to reduce - because you cannot eliminate it - the moral advantage of the Left. But in this way, you ultimately recognise its existence. Your aim is to prove, not the points you are overreacting, but the points that we are like you. You want to instill the concept of 'and they are the same as us', that is, anti-political, indifference, resignation and through this equation of all downwards, eradicate the real differences, historical, ideological and political. You will not succeed, especially as SYRIZA and its executives hold a permanent and open front to governmentalism, self-interest, pitifulness and arrogance of power, but also to the subtle "hidden charm of the bourgeoisie". Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to a major issue which unfortunately overshadowed the debate we are having yesterday. With what Mr. Mitsotakis allowed himself to speak out against the Prime Minister's father, he took a lot of steps down the level of political dialogue. There are many and great reactions from the world, and not only from the left world, to say, as mildly as possible, that I would like to take a glimpse of seriousness, which has once again shown in this Chamber that Mr Dendias is holding. However, Mrs Bakoyannis, in her way, did not allow herself to become part of this cannibal scene, because she remembers very well, at what levels of degradation and decline the country's political life reached, when the confrontation of Andreas Papandreou and Konstantinos Mitsotakis exceeded every limit. I do not know if you understood that, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, not only did they withdraw the motion of censure against Paul Paul Paul, speaking immediately after him, but they kept a clear distance from all this drunken mud, headed for the poorest instincts of the people. After Mr. Prime Minister's post regarding his father, who put things in place, Mr. Mitsotakis is there, who thought he had cornered Mr. Polakis. In this position, which must either correct and apologise, associated with the sense of the great majority of our people or remain in our memory as the "so long as was", disappointed by the large majority of the democratic world, regardless of the fact that they have resigned and praised only by a dragon of fanatics and by a disgusting fascist flirting and dispersing human beings, as "AYRIAN" has once done against the late Constantine Mitsotakis, presenting him with broken elements as a partner of the SS-Ss. We are proud, those who come from the Renewable Left, because, despite our disagreements at that time with the late Mitsotakis, as well as the late Papandreou, nor did we adopt the misery which they have occasionally launched for their personal life, nor have we ever subjected to the temptation to strikes under the waist, even when "Aryanism" had become the central political expression of the then PASOK and discovered in the marinas of the inspiring fantasy of Georgios Kouris, the lowers of Florkis and Kyrgykou, the "Kyrklovakis" to remember the expression of the era. We are therefore waiting, Mr Mitsotakis, although you have drawn conclusions from the black pages of our recent history, the expression of regret and apologies for the great atom, which you committed at the expense of the Prime Minister, his father and his family. Find a way to make it up to you, Mr. Mitsotakis. You're very exposed. The eater is getting healed. You will, among other things, be rid of this detestable yellow girl that has covered you. These days, New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis suffer from political jaundice, but we will not allow it to be broadcast to the whole political life of the place. In this Chamber, it is not worth the yellowing that has offended your line, but it is not worth killing, such as the slimy toxic mud, which the rain brings, the seat of the New Democracy. And because I don't forget, I remind you that you owe many apologies, Mr. Mitsotakis. You need to rectify a great stumbling block of yours, that the Prime Minister sold Macedonia in exchange for the pensions. You need to condemn the attempt to invade the extreme right-wing and fascist bullies in Parliament. Much owed, Mr. Mitsotakis. Now that the hundred 20 instalments are coming, look at them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have been covered by the positions of our ministers and Members who have once again demonstrated and defended the work of our Government. With regard to relief measures, it has become apparent to the Greek people that after August 2018 a step has been taken - step by step - to recover ever more intense degrees of freedom in defining our policy. The country moves away from the core of the crisis, recovers its independence, closes wounds and ends with greater optimism and confidence in the future. In this direction, after the memoranda and the crisis, it is important that, in the run-up to the European elections, the people understand two things: who will be in power in Greece and how the European correlation will be formed. Two things that have their autonomy, but they interact with each other. First theme: Who will be in power in Greece? Does SYRIZA claim that the relief and support measures of the weak and the social state have at the same time a positive development and economic footprint or a New Democracy, which, despite being forced to support them, has been undermining them since the day, by calling the underprivileged benefits and benefits, so that they can apparently be cut off tomorrow, if they become government, as anti-developmental? Secondly, what will be the connections in Europe? Does anyone think that with President Verber in the Commission, Mr Mitsotakis, who has already described the government's measures as irresponsible, which will be voted on by the New Democracy itself, will it be impossible to implement the package of measures announced by the Prime Minister for 2020? No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u9	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u10	And if these measures concern a large social majority and meet the needs of many, these measures must be implemented, not only when SYRIZA is in power, which supports them with nails and teeth, not only to form a large social alliance to defend these measures, but also in Europe to make, as isolated as possible, Weber and the others. Ladies and gentlemen, we are told by some: you have voted for a memorandum and you are also every word of the memorandum. Really? Memorandums were filled with Greece, but Greece had neither social medicine nor pharmacies for the insurers. The Memorandum had Blonde and Paulakis and they opened the hospitals in the millions of uninsured, set up the TOMY, banished the contractors, moralized the system, hired doctors and nurses, dedicated the hospitals, broke the abscesses to the CIF and the medicine, brought to the public "Chrik Dynan" and so many others. Mitsotakis had a memorial and fired. Both Voutsis and Skourletis and Vernardakis and Gerovasili and Xinoyannakopoulou had a Memorandum. You heard what Ms. Xenogiannakopoulou said. With our "one's leaving, one's coming" will be hired every year, gentlemen of the New Democracy, nine thousand to ten thousand doctors, nurses, teachers, teachers, firefighters. With "five leaving, one coming" by Mr. Mitsotakis would hire only a few military and police officers every year and no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u11	Please, finish, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u12	I'll be done. The previous ministers of education had a memorial to open up schools with terrible deficiencies or a photocopy of them. Memorandum, coercive, we had Baltas, me and Gavroglou, and we restored normality in education. Since we are discussing disability, Mr Paulakis and Mrs Folios have said a great deal on this subject, but let me give you information on a subject, which you know I have a particular sensitivity, specific education in the Ministry of Education. You should be aware that from the total of six thousand three hundred eighteen appointments in 2014 on New Democracy and PASOK in 2018 we reached the amazing fifteen thousand eight hundred two appointments of teachers, i.e. 150% increase. I'm filing the relevant table.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President. I apologise, but many of the speakers have referred to me and I am making this little abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u15	Finish, please, soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, let us stop the tale that we are all the same and that with the same zeal we have implemented the memorials. Neither are we ourselves nor intend to become and summed up in a central systemic polar, forgetting roots and blurring our social reports, reviving failed recipes of the 1990s and an unsuccessful multi-collateralism of sap, with an end in itself governmentism and power management. The historical, ideological and political sign of the Left was even found in the difficult June '15 compromise with a strong and effective shield for protecting society and the weakest strata. Now that the harder it has been, all efforts must be aimed at promoting a well-designed new development and productive model that meets major challenges, such as the new phase of globalisation, the 4th Industrial Revolution and the changes in work, climate change and the carbonisation of the economy. With these problems in mind, we ask the Greek people to renew their trust in SYRIZA and the co-operating forces and persons in all the elections that are on the table. We give the government a vote of confidence, a vote of hope and the prospect of this place, a vote of strength, consistency and aggregation of SYRIZA, of the left world, of the democratic and progressive forces of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u17	I imagine that Mrs Christophilopoulou, mentioned by many in her name, will demand more time. Please, I do not want to cut off the speaker's courage, but I would ask for respect first of all in time, so that we can get this procedure done early today, so that the vote can take place in a reasonable time - to say a thought - perhaps around 20.00 or 20.30 seconds, so that we provincials can depart.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u19	Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I take the floor for two reasons. Firstly, because my name was expressly mentioned by my previous colleague, Mr Philly, but also because I think it is right for the Minutes to break up a great misunderstanding for the second time. The misunderstanding is now: The President of the New Democracy Mr Mitsotakis, according to no one, attacked. The President of the New Democracy has repeatedly but also the day before, on the contrary, been attacked, as I will use the same expression, which I have previously used - and against live and opposing ones - as a whole. I think that no one in this Chamber will be surprised, regardless of party membership, if I remind you that his wife has been made on several occasions - not to say on a daily basis - aiming ruthlessly to attack all the media controlled by the government, but also by every MEP and every executive who chooses to incriminate Mr Mitsotakis and his family. Mr President, I take the position of my colleague as an indirect recognition and I dare say that I take a step further, and as an apologies to the President of the New Democracy for what has been said to the detriment of the unjustly. I would like at some point, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to say that this apology must be extended backwards, to what has been said to the detriment of our own group in the period 2010-2014, which is not just abusive, but is deeply slandering and an effort, not only to cancel the personality of each of us, who were then in the House - that is perhaps limited - but also a total of the history of our party, for which we are absolutely proud. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I may need your tolerance. Addressing the President, I almost fell. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the follow-up to what we had seen at the beginning of the plenary, I am not going to deal with 'coterology', nor with mud and cochinealism. New Republic and SYRIZA, SYRIZA and New Democracy have served quite a bit on this. We in the Change Movement insist in this debate on focusing on political criticism, which sometimes can be very bitter, because truths hurt. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the Centre of Athens, we saw the well-known - strangers destroying citizens' property, defending who? A terrorist killer, as a so-called political prisoner. Are you protecting them, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Do you show tolerance to them, as a government? Because it calls for Parliament's confidence, a Prime Minister and a government that has literally dismantled the Security Bodies, has abolished or degraded important services - one of them is the 'DELTA', which we at PASOK on Chrysochoidis - with the result that the citizens feel insecure, in the mercy of crime and leave the mostly worthwhile men and women of the Greek Police, who are unable to carry out their duty under these conditions. But that's not all. It calls for the confidence of the House, a Prime Minister and a government that has poored the middle class - it was your target, in the end - that has wiped out households and businesses and is driving the economy, unfortunately, to slow death, despite anemic growth, which remains anemic, with atrocious surpluses in which you insist. And you are asking for the confidence of the House, you, who have committed the public wealth for ninety years and have been unable to attract investment. Ladies and gentlemen, only in 2018 did investment fall by 12%. All you did was help and manage the bankruptcy of almost the largest public enterprise in the country, PPC, and you dismantled the social state. And towards the Civic Opposition, New Democracy, let me remind you that the minimum guaranteed income is not guaranteed, because this is also a PASOK project. I know they don't want to say it, as they copy, so they're trying to get into it. Truths, however, must be said, even if they are bitter. In fact, he has now entered the Chamber and Mr Kegeroglu, who had then handled the minimum guaranteed income. Now what's going on? Aron - Arion, panicky, bring in a provision package to avoid the worst. Let's just see what you did to the retired and beyond the two thousand who wait in their headphones for their retirement: From 2015 until today, you have cut a pension year for five years to every pensioner. Remove the ESS. No government in the years of the crisis had agreed to abolish the CSCE. You're such negotiators! This is the so-called negotiation. You have, of course, cut the widow's pensions. Moreover, you have charged EUR 800 million a year for pensioners by increasing their health contributions to subsidiary and principals, and the Minister for Health knows that, unfortunately, this money was not going to health, but went back to pension, which is the problem of time. We want to speak truths from this Step of the House. Moreover, you have charged pensioners with EUR 266 million for medicines, which are paid increased. Now what are you doing? You pay them 800 million euros. You share some 400 euros in every low-pension pensioner, as a gift for a European election. 'Let us vote' you tell them. That's what you tell them. But you think they're eating spoon? I think you're laughing. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to deal with Mr Polakis and Mr Pollack. I am not going to do that, firstly, because too many colleagues have done so before me. I have, moreover, been subjected to his trabulations in the Committee of Inquiry into Health, she herself. And despite the letter that the Secretary of Parliament made to the President of Parliament at the time, neither was there. Because SYRIZA, in terms of sexism, only deals with women or other sensitive groups, who are members of the same group and not with other members of either Parliament or society or any other. Secondly, I will not deal with it because Paulis is Tsipras and Tsipras equals Paulakis in "pollution". And that is what you will vote on, ladies and gentlemen, on the right and on the periphery of those who support the government at night. For it is Parliament's confidence that a Prime Minister, whose real cause is demagogy and not the economy, as he says, is asking for a Prime Minister, led by a government whose indifference, civilization and inability are proverbial. And this, unfortunately, seems the worst in the example of July 23. From the first moment, you faced the fire as a communication spanning. And we have shown this through this tragic time, which I shall be tabling again in the Minutes of the House to remember. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Papachela's documentary, which was published, unfortunately, confirmed us as far as we were concerned. There were dead and you organized a TV meeting of ministers and Prime Minister. With what heart? And not only did you have a TV meeting, but you were uploading photos of instagram and "instastris" while they were dead. I put it in the Minutes again. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And while you knew that, you faced cynical firefighters. ‘What are you going to do with 2000 euros?’ He says Mr. Tsipras in a firefighter. "You'd spend it if I'd give it to you." And you denounced yourself or your partners - a package you were then, now you've broken them up to get a majority - the firefighters, that it's their fault. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need your tolerance for a while, Mr. President. Unfortunately, they have been forgotten, since they erased publicity, these people, who are trying to restore their homes, their property, their livelihood, their lives in the region. The collection of asbestos has stopped, with all the environmental risks that this is hiding. Demolition stopped. Mr. President, you're here. You told us there were 37,000 euros. We and the government have also proposed that this money be given. Why aren't they given? Why don't we start the project? Most residents request permission repairs. Yes, there is an institutional problem. We have tabled three proposals in the debate. We gave them to the Minister. We gave them to the New Democracy officer. We said "we are at your disposal". We are at your disposal as a Change Movement to sit down now. Because there are too many citizens in Matti, in New Buja, in Kinetta, in the Red Port, who can repair their homes, as long as we get in touch. Three solutions have been tabled. Did you ever come to the dialogue? Did you care if these people will ever be restored? And this, along with the enormous frugality for the special spatial plan that is still in the Syrian knaves, shows exactly the size of indifference and incompetence. While the anti-missile period began, ladies and gentlemen, the government did nothing. Nor do we have any new planning, nor do we have any staff support or extra resources available. We are still waiting to see and how donations such as the Niarcha Foundation will be exploited if they are exploited and do not lose, as did the Ministry of Health. I conclude, Mr President, by calling for Parliament's confidence, a Prime Minister and a government elected by flagring the moral advantage and ruling, having dissolved the party of its former right-wing partner with a few ANELs and a group of framed orbital perverts, emerging odor of sepsis, decline and transaction. Mr. Tsipras and gentlemen of the government, but the citizens of this country have realised that no one and nothing can enter between you and the chair. So the Change Movement against the Government and the Japanese Mr Tsipras and Mr Polakis, as the people in the poll, will soon do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u24	I asked for the floor for a minute to reply to Mrs Christophilopoulou. I would ask you, because it is very serious about the issues you have raised - I am always talking about Eye - to ask you immediately next week for parliamentary scrutiny and you will be given answers to all the issues you have raised. Because you are wrongly in the majority of what you have said. I'm telling you right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u25	I've asked ten questions, and they're all...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u26	I am telling you directly that you can ask for detailed parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u27	Perhaps now, with your intervention, they will come to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u28	Since I am aware of this, because of the special account, I would like to tell you that on all these issues and where there are delays, there are no delays by the authorities. These delays are related to specific problems or to specific behaviours of certain residents, who are in front of dilemmas for their homes. I'm talking about'red' houses. The "yellow" houses proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u29	In some areas. Non-projects don't go...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u30	Out of plan...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u31	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u32	Please, Mr. Kammenos!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Kammenos, you don't have the floor. I would ask you not to write what Mr Kammens says in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Kammenos, we're not in a panel. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Kammenos, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u36	Don't talk about these things with so much carelessness!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u37	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Kammenos, you don't have the floor to make these speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u39	The man's come from a panel right away. Do you understand what I'm saying? I'm president...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u40	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Kammenos, let go of these.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Kammenos, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u43	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Athanasios, do you have a problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u45	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u46	Because you said if it's a picture. Don't you hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u47	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u48	Have a seat, Mr. Kammenos, you don't sound. Nothing is written in the Minutes. Mr. Kammenos, this is not a picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u49	I'm talking about a serious issue and you're not listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u50	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u51	Don't give up on that. In view of the election period, let go of these.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Kammenos, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u53	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Kammenos, this is not a picture. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u55	It's serious. So you will listen very well, Mr Kammenos, to what I shall say. Because you're a forefather, just like you've always been. You're a forefather! Listen first. Or listen before you take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u56	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u57	All right, the bombing on live transmission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u58	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Kammenos, I'm taking away your word. Please, Mr. Kammenos. Sit down! Nothing is written in the Minutes from what Mr Kammenos says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u60	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Kammenos, do you need to hear what I'm talking about before? You didn't even leave that. That's why I'm telling you you're a forefather, clipboard, and a tombster.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u62	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u63	Apart from all this, you're also disgusting. Mrs. Christophilopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u64	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Kammenos, this is not a picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u66	The man didn't go to a panel this morning and he wants to have his day. That's clear. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u67	Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I have asked for the floor because, as the whole House knows, I must also know, Mr Kammenos - I am the chairman of the committee - we put the 10 million on the firearms account, together with 38.5 million, for the allocation of the sum and I know exactly what I am taking part in the relevant meetings with the Minister of Finance and the other ministers. So when I said to Mrs Christophilopoulou, who has rightly raised a number of issues to discuss on this very subject, I know exactly what is going on and what is going on and what is being delayed and why the delays exist. I know exactly how many "yellow" houses he is as an engineer. "Yellow" and "red" are, you know, those that have been certified as such by the competent authorities of the Ministry in all three regions, i.e. New Buja, Matti and Kineta. As far as the "yellows" are concerned, all the reconstructions proceeded on the basis of the existing plan. I also know the sums allocated by three months. As far as'red' is concerned, seventy of these have already been shot. The asbestoses have also come out, and they will come out to the rest, because first the asbestos must come out, and then it must be removed. There are problems there. I have insinuated Mrs Christophilopoulou because some of them, unfortunately, are not just arbitrary - because the issue of arbitraryness has been dealt with, listen to me, Mr Kammenos, because I say the'red' that you have misunderstood - but it is in forest areas and forest maps, where there are additional procedures to be done, in order to liberate the possibility of building people. Understand? In other words, on all these very critical issues, we jointly recognise that this is a very serious matter, which has haunted and haunted the Greek society and we should show the greatest interest. We have already released from the central account for firefighters about 20% for concrete actions. The burners have all been covered, and absolutely. Note, to find out a few things before you intervene, Mr. Kammenos. The burners have been fully covered with an extra amount.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u69	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u70	Well, you have no idea, so I'm telling you not to talk to anyone at all, if possible! Hold on a second. Following a special programme by the Ministry of Health - because this account gives after requests from the ministries - by signatures of their own paths and families all the extra sums have been covered. That is why I have just found the opportunity to tell you that there is indeed a project, Mrs Christophilopoulou, which, last week, you and the relevant ministers on their own are already causing us to analyse a point to the point, because there are many of these points, and the special peasant you have said, before the Greek people, to know both the responsibilities and the consequences, but also the great effort that is being made in this area. That is why he intervened, and through this quality he intervened. That is why I reacted so to Mr Kammenos that he did not realize that I was speaking quite properly. And those SYRIZA and what the President of Parliament is, and so on, let him and others say, but not in the House because they do not stand. It's without complaints and no basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u73	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I just want to clarify a few things, because I really appreciate the President's intervention. It's in the positive direction. I mean two things. Firstly, our questions are dozens, many unanswered and the ones answered show, as in the case of the special spatial plan, that it does not go any further. For this, however, Mr President, I am referring not to arbitrary, but to legalised, whether by the 2014 Act or by the 2017 Act, to settled properties, where, for example, the owner puts two shells, three doors, in. We've got a lot of cases like this. Because there is the Forestry and the known problems, and there are many lawyers in the Chamber - I mentioned, Mr President - we have given both Mr Famelos and Mr Voridis and the publicity and the firefighting three alternatives, difficult institutional solutions. We say we have to sit down and agree to solve this problem, get people into their homes. We have said that many times. And please, please tell the ministers to come and answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u75	Good. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u76	The agreement has to be made and it is self-evident. However, I would like to repeat that for houses marked as 'yellow' - because that is what you are talking about - that is to say, which can be rebuilt, not those which are totally demolished, they are moving forward in order to make everything happen. They will be discharged of the public and the accounts, as we have committed. As far as yellow houses are concerned, they have already progressed rapidly. There is no problem out there in relation to the legal framework. That is, regardless of whether or not they have been settled - in relation to the arbitrary you have put - they give them all the approvals and they proceed so that people can stay inside and take out the summer. It's two different categories of houses, and it's both for Kinetta and Buja. It's not just for Matty. I repeat, however, you are right to say that there must be maximum consultation on all measures to go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u79	Here, Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, I have asked for the floor because, because of the procedure followed, it is not possible to take the floor for all the Members who are able to speak about the proposal of confidence that the government has requested. For this reason, I intend to present my speech for the Minutes. However, I am taking the opportunity of those who have already spoken to me to say something. First of all, I will start with the fact that, in order for everyone to know why this has been forgotten, the House has given EUR 10 million. It was the first, or the second, I think, offer that was made known. But there are many problems, Mr President, and I think that these problems can only be solved by consultation, but also by the involvement of the relevant ministers. On both the issues mentioned by Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, she is absolutely right. I'm sorry, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u81	No relationship. There is one difference, Mr President. I'm not a comedian!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u82	Nobody said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u83	I'm saying this because you called me Xeno-Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u84	Okay, I said it at the edge of the speech. The question is that we have to reach a consensus, and that must be done at the initiative of the government. The government must now persuade the ministers to consult all parties in order to create those conditions which will be taken immediately, because they have been delayed too long. In fact, we have all been accepted by people who have arbitrarily legalized and who have arbitrarily legalised have also paid taxes - even today the deadline for submission, the last extension given to arbitrary houses - is now due to be able to create those houses which can be residential. I am presenting my speech here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-four students and students and seven educational attendants from the 9th Cardits Municipal School. Also, we attend our meeting from the top Western theories of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational program "Worker of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fifteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Primary School of Painter. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, these days we have been following an intense debate. In my view, there is a political question that we have to deal with and respond. So, since we are dealing with the worst post-multiple government, since we are dealing with a government that has dissolved and destroyed the country, since we are dealing with a Prime Minister and with a Ministerial Council which is lying, is incapable, there is one question: This government, which is not based on a mass party, has no influence on self-government, has no influence on the trade unions, has no influence on the chambers and professional bodies, has no influence on the scientific associations, has no influence on the media, has no influence on the media, has no influence on the establishment of the country, has no influence on the deep state, the tough state mechanism, has no influence on the institutions and on justice, has no influence on the establishment of Europe, how is it four years upright, has it managed a further memorandum, has completed its obligations towards creditors, has it taken out the country from the crisis and the commission and has managed a difficult conditions of political stability and political stability; Can one answer us how this government did it? The answer, in my view, is relatively simple. Firstly, we have a structurally untrustworthy and unscrupulous Opposition, which has been identified in the consciousness of the citizens with the country's bankruptcy, with a vicious system of governance. Secondly, the world understood that we operated in very difficult conditions at the most difficult time in society. While citizens have been tired and burdened for five years with severe cuts and extreme austerity, we have tried to manage this situation with a climate of honesty, fairer distribution of burdens and other public morals. And thirdly, ladies and gentlemen - and I think this is the most important one - because the world may have been reassured by the measures we have taken and had to take, there may be discomfort for aspects of government policy, but it may well have made mistakes, but it knows very well that we are not all the same, especially because we have not made a fundamental mistake to identify organically with a system of power characterized by prudence, customer relations, favorability, Rusphetocracy, the transaction with interests. This is the fundamental reason, along with all the previous ones that, in my view, this government continues, despite the difficulties, to provide security and credibility to the country's outside, but also to the productive forces of the country, which after the crisis and the comitology, are looking forward to a new period of normality, growth and prosperity. So, in my view, we have a decent political account, and that is why we neither need nor choose a climate of artificial acidification, polarisation, mud-slide, toxicity to political controversy, as is clearly the case on the part of the New Democracy. I think we should try in the next few years - and in the debate in this House to do so - to concentrate on the crucial issues relating to society, which concern the many, jobs, income, tax capacity, the functioning of the social state, the functioning of the public administration, the restoration of injustices, the relief of people who have been particularly severely affected in the crisis, the quality of democracy. The divisive incision, ladies and gentlemen, and the political dilemma are obviously not among honest and dishonest, it is not among sincere and liars, it is not between people with morality and kindness and immorality and obscene. The hard political dilemma is with which political plan we will go after the crisis both in Greece and in Europe. This is the hard political dilemma, and here we must conflict on the basis of alternative plans and on the basis of specific hierarchies, priorities and commitments. I think the difference between these political plans results at all levels. Let me make a much more specific reference to the field of health. We, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, say that in the same memorandum, in the same austerity environment, in the same context of a committee on budgetary and closeness funds, this government, because it has, as a nuclear element, taken care of the social state, of the protection of the weak, and ultimately of equality in fundamental social rights, such as health, has carried out a different political project, a political project that called universal coverage and guaranteed citizens' access, including uninsured people, to the public health system and medical care. At some point you arrived to say, insulting the intelligence of more than two million more uninsured people, that you had dealt with this. Fortunately yesterday I did not hear anyone say it, nor even the New Democracy health officer, who is usually trying to degrade the government's policy. So that was a huge step. And you can go ask the seven hundred thousand uninsured people with unique and separate AMKA, who in the first four months of 2019 have been prescribed and received drugs worth 93m euros, one third of them with zero participation due to very low income criteria, and have taken a reference for laboratory tests worth 32m euros, which were carried out in public structures. And, of course, some of them were also hospitalized, because they had a serious illness, they accepted an accurate treatment without being charged to hospitals, which in fact had been confirmed in the past in the tax office. This is a huge change, it is part of the country's health and political life. It's a health policy cut. For the first time in practice health is a right that the state guarantees it to everyone, regardless of work, insurance, income, origin, religion or anything else. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Firstly, access to uninsured, second, strengthening and survival of the public health system. I shall refer to a second distinctive element of the political plan. By 2014, we have a cumulative and every year worsening reduction in public spending and human resources leaking from the system, interventions of mutilating to the functioning of the ESS and public structures, abolition of hospitals, mergers of departments, job precariousness, staff availability, expulsion to removal from the system of two and a half thousand specialist doctors from primary care. This plan ends in 2015, i.e. the conscious abandonment and shrinking of public care. And since then, a policy of gradual strengthening hospital budgets has been built and since 2016, and after specific positive withdrawal balances. These are undeniable and people now know about it in the public health system, which of course still has problems. We do not at all extinguish reality. There is a difficulty, too, for people who work, but also for citizens who are often troubled and costly, but the general picture is that the health system is on the path of a marked recovery and improvement. This, too, is a huge contribution to social cohesion and to the country's dignity. And the third is that we have decided that the normality in the health system cannot be known over time and by all recognised problems of provoking demand, waste, corruption, and dealing with interests and exploitation of the disease. It's the field of moralization of the health system. And there I think it is also recognised that they have very important steps not only to investigate institutionally by the judiciary, by the competent audit bodies of corruption cases, the party and the scandals, but also by the institutional armouring of the system, by changing and by putting a system transparent in the pricing of medicinal products, by abolishing ministerial intervention mechanisms in price formation, such as the Ministry's Prices Committee, by putting, for the first time, mechanisms for evaluating and negotiating medicinal products through the HTA, the Negotiations Committee, the therapeutic protocols, the patient's registers. There have been huge changes in institutional character and resolution through the transformation of a commonly recognised outbreak of lawlessness and plausibility, such as CEDEFOP - which, despite its excellent role in the protection of public health, had ruthless administrations - and its evolution into a modern public health protection organisation, EGE. There have been very significant institutional changes, particularly in terms of immunity and pheasyness, and of course critical interventions have been made - another part of the political project - reformist character, progressive reforms that had never been abducted in the country. And I am primarily talking about primary health care and the institution of the family doctor, who is slowly developing with difficulties and problems. But for the first time, the country takes a European orbit. We are doing what all the serious and developed health systems have done in all the countries of Europe. And Mr. Economou told us yesterday that it's the TOMY fiasco. We have managed in crisis to build a hundred and twenty-five new public structures, a huge leap of administrative, operational, economic and political in crisis. One hundred and twenty - five new public structures, which are additionally staffed, offered the health system a thousand doctors and other health professionals. These structures have carried out over a million free visits of citizens who have so far paid them from their pockets. And you say this is fiasco, because we didn't get the target. The goal was to have two hundred forty. And after one, a year and a half, we manage to catch only 50%, where there were ruins, where public structures were closed, where their staff were being made available, where the universe was being dissolved. There is, therefore, a prospect of development in the ruins here, and indeed with the technical scientific support of the World Health Organisation in a new model that gains the confidence of citizens. You go to TOMY, one of the country's TOMYs to talk to the staff, talk to the citizens, see the other level. A new relationship is built between the citizen and the health system, with friendly service, with time, with a record of history, with holistic care, with guidance and advice on vaccinations, with interventions in the community, with treatment and prevention actions. These are unprecedented things about our country's health system, which was focused only on care and hospitality. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Not to mention mental health, a field of great inequality and social fragility, because the pain has caught you all these days for the weak. There has been a great progressive reform, administrative decentralisation of the system, regional committees for the protection of the rights of mentally ill. These days they are in consultation with a law on involuntary hospitality and the D.A.'s order. There is a serious strengthening of psychiatric departments and clinics, emphasis being placed on primary care and community psychiatric care. Three new psychiatric clinics are established in provincial hospitals. An effort is being made to split up, to dismantle the psychiatric reform that you have led it into the crisis and cuts and austerity. Interventions for dependants: Other area of dramatic marginalisation, social exclusion and indifference. As far as public health and personal health protection are concerned, we have consulted the joint ministerial decision regulating the details, and in the next few months we will have the first in operation, together with a comprehensive package of interventions that want to reduce the damage, to take people out of the streets and impoverishment, to bring them in touch with the structures of the health system, to give them a prospect of gradual destabilisation and normal social reintegration, and even by establishing social inclusion cooperatives, especially for dependent people, the very good model of the GPAs, the cooperative forms that include mental patients and which in Greece are now also in a period of recovery and prosperity, following the significant financial support - over 4 million euros - which have been accepted in the last two, three years. Incomprehensible things about the policy carried out in previous years. It is another political project, because there is a fundamental and worthwhile difference. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, may I speak for a moment. The difference is the idea of equality - that is the major - of dealing with and eliminating inequalities, especially in the field of health and therefore of social redistribution. This is our fundamental ideological, secularistic, programming and political difference. You want competition, freedom of the market, shrinking public health. Don't be stuck with public structures now! It's not just the state. Let's leave it. We have a highly developed private sector in Greece, we need to make use of it, buy services from the private sector. This is your alternative political plan. It is not a secret charm, it is a raw neoliberalism and leads to a dramatic decline in the quality of care to the weak, it exacerbates inequality, it carries economic burdens in people's pockets. This effort, ladies and gentlemen, to the Ministry of Health, together with many other things, which I obviously cannot present, has been collectively achieved, with the ambitious effort and commitment of the whole political leadership, with the distinct contribution of Paul Polakis, with which we can obviously have differences with regard to the psycho-structural and public presence and image, but we are fully acquainted with the political project, with the support of public health care and the equality of people in the health sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u87	Slowly, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u88	I shall conclude, Mr President. I therefore think that the New Democracy has two very critical problems which affect its credibility, and I believe that it will also seriously affect the political reflections of the next period. One is that he invested in destructiveness. That didn't come out and makes her structurally unreliable. He invested in the line of voting against a government rather than voting in favour of an alternative and distinct political plan. This is very much appreciated by the people who are tired of the big words and want commitments, plans, concrete interventions and actions. The second serious political issue that New Democracy has in my opinion is that the hybrid of the right-wing and a few nationalist rhetoric and at the same time extreme neoliberalism is a hybrid, which is not convincing, loses to the far-right, because by adopting the far-right agenda you are turning people to the far-right, but is losing to the centre, it is losing to the space that is supposed to be market and entrepreneurship, because this area wants stability, it wants sustainable prospects. It is a project that does not just make the New Democracy an eligible political project in the next period. We - and I close with this - now that we have, as I said before, a decent political account and fully committed to the commitments we made to society and the people in September 2015, now that we have given samples of writing, seriousness, management capacity and credibility, now that society feels safer, now that the weaker ones feel more protected, now that the middle class sees very visible the prospect of a sustainable resumption of the economy, strengthening employment, strengthening income, so now that things have reached the critical point, we are calling for a vote of confidence for the citizens and we are asking high-ranking people to vote for approval and confidence. And I think we'll have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos. Mr. George Kritsis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was the anniversary of the anti-fascist victory, the end of the Second World War in Europe, the occupation of Berlin by the Soviets, Hitler's suicide and Germany's unconditional captivity. It's worthy of honor and glory to the generation of our fathers and grandparents who shot them Nazis, they didn't vote for them. But my report has another goal beyond the anniversary. The victory against fascism in World War II, the momentum and the achievements of the Red Army, the gloriousness of the Soviet Union, and the rivers of the working class of the countries of the West in the battlefields, have been a catalyst for the central achievement of post-war Europe, the welfare state that emerged through the ashes of World War II. The most flagrant example of this progressive flood in post-war Europe, NHS, the British National Health System, was created in 1948. It was created under the pressure of two generations of British workers, who were killed by hundreds of thousands in Flanders’ trenches when they were not screwed up in factories and mines. The same throughout Europe, in the Russian steppepe, in the mountains of Epirus, in the mudslides of Macedonia, in the mountains of Yugoslavia. This social state, which has been a pan-European conquest, is at risk today, seventy years after the victory against fascism. The threat to the social state comes at the same time as the revival of fascism. Symptomically or otherwise - worryingly - it was again a global crisis in the mid-war that led to the development of fascism and the retreat of liberal democracy. Today we have an attack both on the social state and on democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is permanently inaugurated in the positions and statements of officials of the New Democracy, its President, MPs, public opinion leaders, the systematic dismantling of the social state. This is done with two cross-subsidised objectives: sub-financing and plundering, marketing aspects retained in public authority. We remember Mr Adoni Georgiadis in the committee on health scandals, that he is facing health exactly the same conditions as a supermarket - so he said - no, that is, as a social commodity, but as a commodity. We remember Mr Mitsotakis himself saying that public hospitals are not even forced to perform diagnostic tests. A concept of full degradation and salivation of public hospitals and public health. The New Democracy gave a sample of health writing when it was government. But he also gave a sample of writing for education. I will mention the example that, in my opinion, incorporates the concept of marketing education in the most vulgar way. And that is no more than the removal of two and a half thousand teachers and the abolition of tens of professional qualifications provided free of charge by the public PSAs. At the same time, the ministers and officials of the New Democracy were cutting in private inauguration ribbons with the same areas as the same ones that were abolished by public education. Free education was transformed into private by mere administrative acts, the dismissal of teachers and the abolition of departments. These are the means by which, when the New Democracy was a government, the New Democracy is trying to make the financial adjustment. In fact, private interests were strengthened, and at the expense of the poorest people in the technical and professional directions, speaking of education. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to break the social state, New Democracy is using a very well-known argument: benefits, social transfers make people lazy, Mr Kikilias explains to us. They're favors and charity. These two words, "thank you" and "given mercifulness", are a red line that one finds crossing the argument of the New Democracy, from Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Georgiadis to Mr Kymbouropoulos' unfortunate posts. And if something reminds you of this argument, what reminds you of is Mr. Webber. It reminds you of the arguments by which the European Right explained the usefulness of the memoranda, through which the 'good' Western Europe was entitled to plunder the 'debel' South. Ladies and gentlemen, all these are issues of the coming European elections. The New Democracy does not want this debate. It does not want any debate that is not presumptuous, that it is not a fake, that it is not a distraction. It is so antisocial that its program, which hides and resorts to lines of the kind "yes, but Paulis smokes", "yes, but Paulis speaks to the native". Her attitude is understandable. What should New Democracy oppose? He's talking about middle class. So he's going to tell us about the high nineteen years in the processing we have this year? Will he tell us about the new fall of unemployment? Speaking of middle class, will he tell us about increasing consumer confidence by 21%? To increase the IX market by 40%? Are we talking about a housekeeping? Did the Greek state ever have more money in its funds? Was it ever more shielded than possible international turbulence? For any of this, New Democracy doesn't want to talk about it. Personally, however, I am impressed by Mr Mitsotakis, who is supposed to be between 20% and 40% in front of the polls and is ready for the Prime Minister, while Tsipras is tired and disgraced. How could Mr. Mitsotakis not dare face him in an election debate? Seriously, does he inspire confidence he doesn't dare talk out of manuscript, who doesn't dare a debate that he can govern? Can he represent the country? Can he negotiate with Erdogan, Merkel, go abroad? What's he gonna tell them? The New Democracy trolleys and stories from makeleio.gr? Ladies and gentlemen, we will probably not be given the opportunity to learn Mr Mitsotakis' premiership. The government will take a vote of confidence from the House, take a vote of confidence from the people and protect the country from the reactive remedial reform that is being promoted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u91	Thank you Mr. George Kyritsis, SYRIZA Member. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and how it is organised, forty-one students and students, as well as three educational sessions from the Gymnasia Gardikou, Margariti and Perdikos Thesprotia, which are hosted in Athens under an educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with Mr Constantine Karamanlis of Achilleas, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, listening to some of the Members of the House I really wonder if we have understood why the New Democracy tabled a motion of censure on Monday against Mr Polakis. Firstly, because this in our view fully responds to the public's feeling of law, but also to the frustration or, if you like, the anger of society. The obscene attack by a Minister, and indeed the Deputy Minister in the field of health, has caused everyone, regardless of party or ideological beliefs. Unfortunately, instead of the Prime Minister of the country condemning this behaviour, as any intelligent man would expect, he is still covering his Minister, he is rushing to justify an act, which, if you like, insults democratic order. The decision to turn the motion of censure into a motion of confidence is a very simple one: in the fear of the government that Members of the SYRIZA may not follow the government line if the vote was finally only on the face of Mr Polakis, who misguidedly attacked a candidate with serious disabilities. He assaulted in a vulgar manner his fellowman, a colleague of the doctor, who, as a master of Medical Athens, meets all the standards for his recruitment to the public. Instead of apologizing for this behavior, which insults everyone and much more insults people who have a heavy disability and their families who live with this drama, you are trying to get out from above. And the Prime Minister of the country comes here and says that Mr. Mitsotakis is in the vicinity of Mr. Kybouropoulos as a gloss. Did Mr. Tsipras say that to offend Mr. Mitsotakis? Mr. Kymbouropoulos and the people with a heavy disability are insulting. I am pleased that a number of SYRIZA Members, including Mr Philis and Mr Balafas and the MEP, Mrs Kuneva, others more mildly and others, have condemned this unacceptable attack and that is what honours them. So this case could have ended, if the Minister and the government were to recognize the mistake, they recognised their atom and apologise to Mr Kymbouropoulos. But he wants to see a manhood in politics, he wants courage, he wants elementary dignity for a politician to admit that he's wrong, because we all make mistakes. And I would expect a party like the SYRIZA party that appears as a left, which is supposed to protect the weak, who are supposed to be next to people with disabilities, to do the obvious: bring Mr. Paulakis back to class and admit your stumbling block. Of course, SYRIZA over the years has invested in three very specific discriminations, in order to diversify itself from the rest of the political system. Let's take them and see them one by one. Firstly, you have invested as a opposition to the distinction between a memorandum and an antimony. After the experiments of the first semester of 2015, after the proud negotiation and your illusions you adapted to the reality, you forgot left quantumism, to remain in power. You have made the word "solotumba" internationally known and we have come to the Islamic point to see Mr. Tsipras speak to the "Financial Times" and give lessons to the British about how they should not leave the European Union. Secondly, you have invested in distinguishing old with new ones, but at the headquarters of your Ministerial Council, in the headquarters of the National Parliament, we see officials from the condemnable and old political system and the transaction you have made with them - you will allow me to say - it touches the limits of political turbulence. And thirdly, you have invested in discernment of moral and corrupt. The moral advantage of the Left is finally falling apart on a solemn basis, since you can no longer convince anyone that in your own political area there are no huge issues of moral order. From your choice to include in your party's Eurogroup persons who only for a transparent course are not famous and turn us back decades, in the days of the national suppliers until the last revelations we have all seen, now rank you on the so-called left of the caviar. You're the Left's denial, since you're only figuratively left and progressive. This is also demonstrated by your policy, and in your style, this is demonstrated by your aesthetics. You are allegedly applying progressive policies, but you are implementing policies and practices that the Left is normally fighting against. You are, therefore, the Left that undermines the Left and you are insulting with your policy all your fellow citizens who, as genuine left-wing citizens, as genuine democrats - and I refer to the Cyprus, I refer to the Sun, I refer to Papadiou - have been our ideological opponents, but people who were decent and have fought, especially after 1974, and for democracy and for the left. So the only official spokesman for the Left in Parliament today is the Communist Party of Greece. They at least do what they say. You are, therefore, the so-called left-wing ones who are establishing a reduction in allowances, the abolition of pensions, which you gave to lenders what the previous governments, which you called germans, did not think of giving. And I'm talking about the superstition. But also in the area I am supervising, in the transport and infrastructure sector - I could speak here another ten minutes about what you have done - I would refer to a single characteristic example, so that I do not eat your time. You brought to Parliament in 2016 a law, in 4412, which talks about the most problematic sector, public procurement. What have you done? You've changed him three hundred sixty times. I do not think that has been done in another European Union country. And not just changed him, you brought eighty amendments last week. That is how you are strengthening three months, two months before the election, on elections, on direct assignments. Is that the proud left? Are you thinking of this transparency, rather than apologise for the unacceptable contracts you have made both in "Thriasios" and "Eleftherios Venizelos", which we did not bring to the public? The European Commission itself is coming and drawing your ears. Instead of apologizing here, you come and move our finger on morals and left. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone is now exposed and, fortunately or unfortunately, we all have little memory. The elections are coming and finally we will all be judged by the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u93	Thank you Mr Constantine Karamanlis of Achilleas, Member of the New Democracy. Mr Sia Anagnastopoulou has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday we celebrated the day of Europe and the end of fascism. It wasn't just the end of fascism. It was the end of what led to fascism, hunger, war, the one who led to the refugee and the collapse of millions of people. The people then decided on one thing, namely that, in order to avoid war again, there must be equality between the peoples, equality within the States themselves. Another current, of course, said that there must be a Europe that controls the future of this region. These two strings, which each started from a long war, clashed and clashed to this day, in different ways, but the essence is one: equality between peoples, non-equality and competition and control by some powerful forces. You keep asking yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the Officer - and not just - how did SYRIZA manage to get another person out of Europe, how he managed to have one of his own policy or Chancellor Merkel, etc. As an explanation you find either that we sold Macedonia and that's why he gave us the pensions, either because we did this, because we turned around, or anything else. I shall explain to you, however, in very simple terms what has happened. The first half of SYRIZA's governance has become an important thing. For the first time after the years of the crisis - and after many years, I would say - a political force in Europe has forced some states to see this society, to see both this people and all the other peoples of Europe, to see that what they had imposed as the only solution and that there is no alternative, there may be another way. They saw that the Greeks aren't the lazy ones in the south. We have tried to leave these stereotypes and to see that there is a society suffering from their own neoliberal policies and claiming what all societies deserve. That was the first crack. And it was an important crack, which you don't want to see. And it is an important crack because, for the first time, they were not only played in Brussels, in closed rooms and in closed living rooms, they were also played in the streets and in the neighborhoods and in the other peoples of Europe. Mr Webber, the day before yesterday, replied immediately and immediately to the measures announced by the Prime Minister with a phrase that is characteristic of this political group and internally in each of the states and as a whole in Europe. He said that the other people would not pay Greeks - take care of the formalities - and that we will not be in favour of European unemployment insurance. What did he say in other words? He said what the hardest neoliberalism in Europe, that is to say, competition among peoples - if you are competitive, it is well, if you are not competitive, to go drown - and, second and foremost, 'We want nothing to ensure equality between all European peoples'. 'Competition', that is, the word. The first battle, then, which has been given to Europe, has been between equality and competition, and this battle has not ended with the best possible success for us. But something very important has happened, me and from this Step, and from everywhere I will always claim it. Some socialist forces were obliged to come back to see society, their societies. Some socialist forces were obliged to talk to their history and roots again and started to change, to turn around. Where they had been identified and betrayed by societies and their own history, they were forced to make this turn and not by us. And it was very important, and it seems now. It's starting to look like now how important it was. Some forces, even on the right, when they saw the spectrum of fascism going up in this way, were forced to take a step back, because that is political. It's not a closed living room and who we have friends to beat us up on our backs and arrange friends between us. It is what happens in the field of society and where ideological and political forces conflict. This is what we have forced Europe to do: equality of peoples. The second is democracy among the peoples. Whatever the Greeks and Portuguese have, the Spanish also have, the French have all the others. And that was hard, because no one had reacted. Not only did he not react, but he did not say that these memos above all undermine Europe's own democracy in the way they are inspired, arrested and implemented. We have one thing you don't have. In Europe we are not only seeing France of shining Paris. In Europe we see France of its suburbs, its non-preferential neighbours. We see Paris of the Communautaire and May of 1968. In Belgium we see not only Brussels in the technocrats. We see Belgium of miners, most of which come from the Greek community in Belgium. In Germany, the same thing in all countries. We are talking with them, and we want to bring our own society into contact with them, because they have the same passions, the same claims and the same problems. We don't want to compete with each other. So supporting Mr Webber is an open confession to what European policy we want. These European elections are the most critical that post-war Europe has experienced, because not only fascism is played, but all that has led to fascism. I would like to say about this Europe, to which this society belongs. I belong to a part of the Left that has always been with Europe. It has always been in favour of Europe, because it considered it to be the field of history on which we can play and meet with the peoples. I could say too much, but I want to restrain these two points, equality and democracy. And the battle is merciless. The battle never ends in a moment. In history, these battles last for decades. The progressive democratic and left front created both in Greece and in Europe is vital for the survival, dignified survival of the peoples and Greek society and the Greek people, as well as for all the peoples of Europe. So don’t look for transactions, in closed rooms what happened. Look at what mobilised Europe's societies themselves and political forces, especially the socialists. I want to get a little to these sad things these days. I am in favour of hard political confrontation, because this democracy is, even with personal references. Despite the fact that as a person and as a person, I am not a psychiatrist, I am a personal confrontation, but I am an ideological and political one, but I still accept it in the political dialogue, because Mr Mitsotakis revealed this the other day. I've heard several of us say that it's a surprise for them. Nothing surprises me since Mr Samaras in January 2015 did not give up as the institutions, our institutional framework, power, should do. But Mr. Mitsotakis went beyond something the other day. Mr. Friend said so. All right, the living among them to eat. They have the margin of defense. Beating the dead in this Chamber is something that shows how much the riches of culture, how much decency is too prone to go when one feels that one's interests are threatened. And that is what we saw here yesterday in the House and I hope it will not be repeated. Everyone's using their weapons. We used political and ideological weapons in this battle. Even when the style of Paul, one another, troubled some, politically and ideologically, were weapons, it was not personal demolition. That's very important. Yes, Mr. Loverdos. Don't move your head, because I was in this House, when a former Member of our Parliament was brought to Members of your parties in an inappropriate manner. I was the first to get up and stop her. So to distinguish political confrontation from bringing the dead as they dictate to me so that I can get through it. You had calculated that the Prespecies Treaty would sink SYRIZA and the Government. This was not the case and it was not for a simple reason - of course, Mr Kotzias, who knows better than I did - because everything happened in the sunlight, the Greek people understood that no Macedonia was sold, nothing was sold. We just left a great inertia that cost this country to come to Mr Kumucako who started telling us things about Turkey. He is not telling us what he would do, but he has told us the things about Turkey. Our interpretation and our political position for both Turkey and the region are absolutely right. You can't have a huge turbulence in your neighborhood and you leave unsolved problems everywhere and have as politics what you had in Europe: closed living rooms, with the best man and friend to solve the problems. That's not how it works. Peoples must be mobilised, when problems are solved, especially in foreign policy. And with the Prespes, this is not an identifiable problem, but there are just lessons of international law, which I do not want to give from this step of the House. What it proved to be right that our policy and its interpretation was the decision taken yesterday by European leaders in Sibiu, Romania and by Cypriot Anastasiades and by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, but also by all leaders for Turkey's provocative moves in the region of Cyprus and the Eastern Mediterranean. So our foreign policy lessons and "we do not trust you for national policy" after so many years of inertia must be stopped. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I want to finish by saying one thing. Since the most critical European elections on 26 May are being played, do we want to have a Verber and the powers they represent as European peoples? That's the big question for me. Do we want competition between the peoples? Do we want the stereotypes and this vulgar war between the peoples through a number of newspapers and political forces, which are typical of the lazy peoples, the other peoples, or do we want these peoples finally to find solidarity, to have a European security system against unemployment, a European minimum wage, a European mechanism, and institutions that will bring the people together to claim? That's what's going on and we're going to give this fight. We're not going to fight any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u95	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the Municipal School of Varypetro Chania. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u97	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u98	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I would like to ask the previous Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u100	Don't go to this process now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u101	I mean something you know. You were in the front.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u102	It's not a personal matter, but anyway. Okay, you have the floor for a minute, but be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u103	Yes, Mr. President. Last night, Minister - because you spoke as a Foreign Minister, not as a Member of Parliament, and because Mr Katrugalos does not see that he is among the speakers, man will have obligations - at 23.30', here the Member of the Communist Party, Mr Giokas, referring to the summit in Romania, where you have also referred, read us a resolution on the occasion of the day about the fight against fascism and the end of the Second World War, where you signed with Orban the fall of the Iron Curtain. As the MP, but also the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, said, does not remember any government - and I do not remember it - with the Prime Minister, a centre-right of the country, having signed a resolution with such a phrase. If that is your new position - why did the Prime Minister sign this text with Orban - then I would ask you very much to give me an explanation, because we were afflicted two years ago with the government's attitude to the celebrations against fascism and communism as free regimes. What's wrong with you? Have you changed positions? In any case, you are a Foreign Minister and you are under an obligation, since you are also referring to the summit, to tell us where you signed, whether my own approach or other colleagues here are in the Chamber. We control you, we count you, and you want to be clean, I mean political.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u104	Good. Do you want to answer, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u105	I want to reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u106	I think two minutes is enough for you to compress your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u107	Yeah, I'll answer Mr. Loverdo for a second. There was no resolution signed by the Heads of State or Government of Europe. There was a project that was read or not read - and I will tell you this - but a resolution signed by the Heads of State - there was not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u108	That's how he showed up and testified to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u109	I don't know how he showed up. I'll see. However, a resolution signed by the Heads of State or Government did not exist. Our position on this issue is well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u110	Because you said other things last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u111	No, we're saying the same thing, Mr. Loverdo. Same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u112	Here, Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, many speakers have described and identified the central issue of this three-day procedure, which is the peculiarisation of the debate, the movement from political arguments, the criticism of political decisions taken by the Government, from the level of criticism of the move to the targeting of persons. It is clear that there are a number of positive measures not only in terms of popular benefit but also in terms of the recovery of political self-action. For example, the significant symbolic decompensation from the International Monetary Fund toolbox is an act, it is a political gesture collectively conquered that we should defend as a political system. It's a step. The government is practicing some policies, suggesting some ideas, making some decisions that I would like the decisions or controversies to be made. Instead, we have a sequence - you will allow me to say - targeted persons. They're replaced, it's not one. Each time a person emerges, which is targeted and is not only to entangle ideological traits, ideological origin, the political origin of the person, which we are aiming for, and to immerse both of them together. I think it's much more definitive and deeper. I believe that this connection between a person, which is discredited and a political origin, creates a political automation, creates in the political system an aesthetic automation, that is, automatically and plurally, the person to be linked to evil, the person to be linked to a system of ideas, to a government, to a political territory and automatically to the evil. I think this sequence is a communication choice of Officer Response - mainly of Officer Response - that leaves a ruin. My view is that it is a blind choice of a transient triple, a transient victory in impressions, but that leaves a political ruin that we will find before us. It is certain that the critical citizen, the citizen of oxygen, the memory he thinks, which combines, weakens such a choice. This personalized aggression weakens him. This citizen, regardless of whom he belongs, is part of the left-wing political interior, not because he has the typical ideological traits of the Left, but because it is a prerequisite for it. Let's not forget that the Left acquired quality characteristics very importantly during the period of the deep democratisation of the Greek society that was the post-tracting. [[Noise]] I would ask the Bureau very much if it can be less noisy. The whole political system has taken steps to develop democracy. In these steps and in this environment the Left was able to deepen its word, it was able to revert to its history, to reflect, to correct, to make natural and also mistakes. However, maturation and deepening have been won in this democratic territory. He is now self-injurious - not only today with the close calendar importance, at this time he is injured - anti-parliamentism is legitimized. It's a blind choice. The dismantling of representative democracy is legitimate, with the problems it has and with the crisis that is going through at European level. These are blind choices. Perhaps the political grammar and political editorial of the election can legitimize it, I don't want it, I don't. And I think that with too many people I'm talking here, with too many colleagues from all parties, we are in agreement. It's the wrong strategy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I wanted to go ahead with the strictness of the Bureau, but I am consistent that if the Left or the Government or the late democratic citizen joins this logic, the logic of personal degradation, the weakening of the face, the moral dedication of the face, I fear it does not only accede to or is bound by the poverty of the arguments, I think it accelerating to a choice, which is the definition of the crisis in the European Union and we will see it in the results of the European elections. The extreme right does not come, the extreme right does not extend, the informal, the unconscious right is expanded to the small public, the average citizen. And this informal and difficult to deal with right-wing, with these unscrupulous choices, I think we're legalising it. I have the feeling that we can differentiate our language, we are interested in political opposition, we are interested in political arguments. And I think that this is what we all collectively support, without letting the citizen escape anywhere, as we urge him to be unscrupulously today, at least a few, political forces and at least an opposition, an opposition dogmatism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u114	The Minister of Tourism has the floor. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate the first thing we should be concerned about is whether the government plans policies to get out of the crisis, development and social cohesion. At the moment, the issue for our country is the emergence of a modern progressive agenda with a stable European orientation. The aim is to reconstruct the country and further develop sectors and sectors, which the country has comparative advantages. To this end, tourism has a catalytic role, which is evidenced by an increase in incoming tourism over 35% over the last four years. All I can say is that we had thirty-three million international arrivals in our country, together with the cruise, in absolute numbers more than four years ago. It is evidenced by the strengthening of our global shares. Tourist revenues reach 18.5 billion euros. Greek tourism is therefore growing 7% at the moment, 3.5 times higher than the growth rate of the Greek economy and the European growth rate. The total contribution of tourism to the economy amounts to EUR 37.5 billion. In addition, tourist investments are mobilised. Our aim is to support small and medium-sized tourist entrepreneurship, including with the NSRF and financial tools. It is also a strategic priority for the development of the Greek cruise and the introduction of Greece into central power of marine tourism in the eastern Mediterranean. In difficult conditions for the country, Greek tourism is the first to recover. It is a resounding message that our country can make it. Today, we put the cubit even higher and, in a critical period for the country ahead, it is a tourist season. Our aim for the next period is to have even better results from previous years, to ensure a comprehensive plan for the next day, but also for many years, of Greek tourism, with the aim of restoring the economy in terms of sustainable development and the necessary synergies, with the development of tourism on the basis of the findings of market research and marketing plans, taking advantage of the opportunities created through the development plan for tourism, with the prior support of small and medium-sized enterprises and professionals, who have always been the soul of Greek tourism, with the development of all kinds of thematic tourism and alternative forms combined with the effort for tourism throughout the year, with the necessary synergies with regions, municipalities and chambers, aiming at integrating the cultural product of each region, with the promotion of rural tourism and the interconnections of primary production with tourism, with the direct tourism needs of the environment. It is one of the key pillars of the economy and the main pillars of social cohesion. The positive measures announced by the Prime Minister in the past days will further increase the potential of tourism and I am referring to: Reducing the rate of food and focusing from 24 to 13%, and of course focusing on 11% from 2020. But also to reduce VAT on accommodation from 13% to 11% from 2020. Of course, reducing VAT on energy from 13% to 6%. Direct tax reduction measures in critical sectors and for the tourism sector. These are requests from all operators of tourism, which are being carried out. But, of course, tourism will also be facilitated by the other positive measures announced and improving purchasing power. Ladies and gentlemen, tourism is a national record. It requires unity and national understanding, far from toxic, political climate, which poisons the political life of the country. It can provide oxygen to the Greek economy, attract and strengthen other sectors of the economy, connect to investment, create new jobs, help reduce unemployment, contribute to local economies. That's what we're focusing on. That is what we want to develop even more. Because I referred to the measures, a few words: First of all, I heard the Chief of Staff Responsibility talking about the primary surpluses. Indeed, I firmly and firmly believe that the primary surpluses must be reduced. 3.5% is high. The government has said so. But in the measures announced by the Prime Minister, he announced a plan with which we will in fact be able to achieve 2.5% primary surplus and 1% as security. I guess Mr. Mitsotakis didn't see that, to which Mr. Tsipras referred in his speech. He referred to progressive policy, and even forgotten by Mr Mitsotakis who is in his party and who have taken the upper hand. And of course, he also referred to tax-free. Here I really have a question: to proceed with unilateral actions or to proceed with negotiation so that we can achieve the goals in our country? Because if we proceed with negotiation effectively, then what has been announced in the last few days are elements of a new economic policy that also reduces taxes, but also gives breath. Therefore, yes, and of course we must not apply the tax reduction, but this must be done at the appropriate time of negotiation. And because I hear various voices, measures are of a lasting nature. It's not temporary. It is either for 2019 or 2020 and also for development objectives through the reduction of taxation, but also for immediate objectives, such as the amount to be given as the tenth pension for people who need it. Because I don't understand the criticism here, which is happening. Of course, for 2020, the abolition of the solidarity levy, the increase to 150% of the investment depreciation rate, the grant of insurance contributions for young people, the tax reductions for the inhabitants of the islands, the reduction of costs for heating oil, for cooperatives, constant pursuit of those engaged in the agricultural sector, the reduction of taxes and the strengthening of those involved in collective production activities and much more. You will allow me, however, now, after my reference to tourism and the Greek economy - because all these days we are seeing a propaganda and a yellowism that is unfortunately developing, and of course also from political lips and, above all, the Anti-Population Officer - to say: a motion of censure was tabled on Monday afternoon. Mr Mitsotakis said in his speech: 'The new Minister for Tourism is not here'. And it has been mentioned personally with specific designations in the conception of the left-wing forces, which we have decided at all levels. I answered him in public. But also in the Greek Parliament today I will answer him because he has referred to me by saying that I have changed three parties. I'm in a party, Mr. Mitsotakis. I'm on the Democratic Left. And I worked with PASOK and the Change Movement. And when the PASOK and the Change Movement decided to definitively take the road to the right and not to the left, not to Sanchez, but to the strategic partnership on the right, we work with the Radical Left. Can I tell you something? And the cooperation of these areas is our position, if they are removed from the right-wing policies of all of this space, of the neighbouring area: social democracy, renewing left, radical left. When he referred to three parties, at the moment I thought he was referring to the Vice-President of his government and to the party, in which he participated, the People's Orthodox Alert, that he refers to the former Prime Minister with the Spring Politics, that he refers to Dora Bakoyannis with the Democratic Alliance. But no. He was referring to us. Of course, the next day, things became even worse for the Chief of Officership. Because the next day he made his sixth transfer to Parliament with Mr Psariano, who has changed five parties throughout this period: from SYRIZA to DMAR, to Potami, along with KINAL and now in New Democracy. From SYRIZA to New Democracy. Not in the border areas, where we are associated with a progressive alliance right now to defeat the right, to defeat the right-wing, to defeat neoliberalism all over the country. Mr Mitsotakis, of course, referred to the time spent by parliamentarians. He's finally telling us what he wants. Mrs. Kundura when she doesn't give up, why doesn't she quit? Mrs. Kundura when she resigns, why is she quitting? SYRIZA when he's colluding with the ANELs, why with the ANELs? That's what we were all talking about. But when the Radical Left coalition does with the Democratic Left in the field of the Left, why in the field of the Left? Tell us what he wants, finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u116	Why have you been practicing us for four years?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u117	You'll have time to answer. The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. At the time I refer to the New Democracy, he reacts the Change Movement! And because he referred to the timeliness of the Chief of Officer Response, I say he has signed a long-term contract with the complication. In fact, there has also been a dwelt after the New Democracy Party in Adoni Georgiadis. That's actually what's been happening all this time. In any country, which has not lost common sense, the collapsing of two parties on the left, the Radical Left and the Democratic Left coalition, not only should not be surprising, but should be expected to develop. How much less not that in the new political environment the left-wing partition line is even clearer. It defines the political shocks where we are today. With SYRIZA we have jointly voted here in Parliament progressive solutions to all the top policy issues. We jointly voted on the simple analogue when New Democracy and Democratic Incorporation at that time did not vote for it. We voted on the human rights bills, pension cuts, social dividends, enlargement of social rights, the revision of Article 3 on religious neutrality to the necessary, of course, separation of relations between the Church - State. Of course, the Prespecies Agreement, while other political forces who define themselves as progressive flirt systematically with neoconservative and introvertible perceptions. And I heard here, too, in the public debate, about various transactions, he says. Ladies and gentlemen, our position in the Democratic Left and in the Democratic Left have never changed it for Macedonian. She's stable. Everyone has known about it in Greek society for so many years. That is why we are critical of our position in favour of resolving the Macedonian in the context of this solution. These arguments should be told to those Members who have changed their position at the moment and who have joined the New Democracy, and of course have had a different position over all these years. In each country, however, the bet which, how and with what alliance of powers will express the majority of the progressive space be open. In our country, the answer to the latest developments, the opening of Alexis Tsipras to the Progressive Alliance and the definitive conclusion of the Change Movement with the New Democracy, has been given. The majority of progressive citizens will respond to the next elections under SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. For our part, we have chosen to stand firm on the road to the reconstruction of the progressive party. Unfortunately, the Change Movement not only refuses to contribute to this crucial moment for our country but also to the whole of the euro, but also to a profoundly unscrupulous position puts the strategic defeat of the Left as a priority, that is, the strategic victory of the Right, in fact, indirectly, as a target. It has evolved into an enclosed party away from the directions of even the European Social Democracy itself. It has finally chosen strategic coexistence with the Right, the New Democracy, and this fact, as I have already said, is demonstrated by all the top policy issues. The new Republic, unfortunately, has become increasingly tough on the right-wing countries, both in national and economic issues, in the operation of the state and in human rights. The response of the left-wing forces must be immediate and effective, with a strong progressive alliance against neoliberalism and the extreme right, against conservative forces, by promoting policies to strengthen social justice, labour rights and the reconstruction of the social state. In this context, the coexistence of the progressive and left-wing forces of the country is a fact. It marks the determination of all of us to promote the progressive alliance at all levels from now on, and in the field of applied policy, and above all the commitment of all of us to a progressive alliance of the forces of the Left, the Social Democracy which is being blocked by conservative policies, of the political ecology. What has been taking place in our country over the last few years, by the outbreak of a new ethnicism, has brought the dividing lines between progress and maintenance to the fore most vigorously. At the same time, the withdrawal of ANELs and Panos Kammenos from the government has opened the way for a left-wing government, without any changes of character on key issues such as human rights and foreign policy issues. This, of course, together with our common desire to promote a unified process of progressive co-existence, in order to defeat the conservative right and the extreme right have laid the foundations for a wider co-existence of today's progressive forces. In order for the country to emerge from the crisis, much needs to be done, even more importantly, to promote a genuinely progressive agenda in all areas of politics. That is why we take responsibility for the difficult. Because the Left was always for the hardest, it wasn't for the easy. That is why we have left aside sufficient differences for the past and for policies that have been pursued. What unites us is the present and the future for the need to create a progressive identity with a strong social figure. And there is a lot more that unites us from differences we have had in the past. A modern-day left-wing proposal for governance in Greece and Europe is necessary today. I am also watching - and I conclude, Mr President - that this attempt by yellows, often, means, unfortunately, along with the Civic Opposition, for 'character killers', which has been carried out in recent days for specific persons. I post-electioned to understand what is going on, but when I saw the Chief of Officer's Representation here doing this attack now and the Prime Minister's father, who is not alive, I realized that it no longer makes sense. Science raises hands up! That is not a political controversy. I would tell you what happened to me this week or other members of the government, but when it comes to getting to the point of being dead, I think it takes another dimension. In conclusion, Mr President, completely new political conditions have been established in 2019. Two powerful cities, the progressive and the conservative, and the debt of all of us, the progressive citizens, and the progressive policies, have been conclusively formed, it is to do everything in order not to come the Right, not to come the hard right with conservative positions in the country's governance. And we will not allow that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u118	Before giving the floor to the next speaker on the list, Mr Pafilis, the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would also like to speak on personal matters afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u120	I won't deny anyone the floor. However, we should set a line, because Mr Pafilis had asked for the floor a moment ago. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u121	As Mrs Anagnostopoulou, who is also Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and has also been responsible for European policy, told us that there is no Sibiu declaration, but a plan, I will submit to the Minutes, after I read the relevant document from the site. 'European Council, Council of the European Union'. Signed Preben Amann, spokesperson for the President of the European Council. It is a unanimous decision on the day of the anti-fascist victory of the people, with the fifty million dead, of which twenty Soviets. What did the government vote for? The government voted that "thirty years ago - 9 May - millions of people fought for freedom and unity and shattered the Iron Curtain". Signed along with Salvini, Orban and Kurts. A unanimous resolution. I would like to put it to the Minutes to inform Mrs Anagnostopoulou and the Government and Mr Tsipras if she has already doubted that. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And then we say - Mr Theocharopoulos said - that the New Democracy is falling into more right-wing positions. Indeed, but also as far as the government and the Prime Minister are concerned, the people say that the logic of catechism is the bottom. There's no bottom in here anymore. What else are you going to vote for? And you're telling us about wider coexistence of progressive powers. Here's the conspiracy at European level, with Salvini, Orban, Kurts and other fascists. Are you speaking of two poles, which are a pole and which are called the defense of the barbaric capitalist system, called an agreement with the most reactionary and fascist forces in such obscure texts on the day what are you doing? Aren't you ashamed? Disrespect against the millions dead. That's what happened on May 9th. You are entitled to fascists, that is, what the European Union has been doing for so many years. It's a great shame and you'll pay it from your world very expensive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I would like the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Loverdo, would you like to put yourself on the same subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u124	No, Mr President, on another point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u125	Well, then give the floor to the Minister. Good, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u126	I respect very much and share the sensitivities as expressed by the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece. However, I would like to make two clarifications. This is not a resolution, it is not even a decision I have said, it is a joint declaration and the declaration in the European Union requires unanimity. The problem of our own and our great difference with you - and we put it here - is that in this European Union, what we are constantly trying to change the forces within the Member States, the first. Secondly, when unanimity is required and there are states - Member States of the former Eastern Europe, which, unfortunately, I admit - are dealing with their past in this way, it does not change either with a proclamation that we are abstaining - and I will say why we have not abstained - nor with anything else. Thirdly, I would like to touch on this. In everything that has been done by former communist countries, which is against the Iron Curtain, communism and that, and with that phrase, we have not taken part as a country. And for Mr. Loverdos who had insulted me before - because I had forgotten and thankfully reminded me - to remind me in 2017 that he called in here Mr. Katrugalos "political mollusc" why did we not participate in Estonia? Why have we said why we are not participating and have never been involved? Yesterday in Siberia, Romania, we had a crucial issue and that is why we insist that decisions be taken unanimously. Because if they are not taken by unanimity, they are by a majority of countries like ours, they will never be able to pass anything. So we had a major issue. We wanted all the countries to make a decision to protect Cyprus against Turkish provocation. This unanimous decision was a declaration - not even a decision and a resolution - and it was very important, Mr Loverdos. Don't give up on me. You insulted us two years ago here. You called us political molluscs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u127	You don't remember well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u128	I remember very well. Here's the "gun" to see. So I understand sensitivity very well. In the committee debated this issue, we raised it. The former Eastern peoples, unfortunately, I will say, have this treatment of their past. However, the declarations are taken unanimously. That's the point. No resolution, no decision or anything like that has been taken. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u129	It's a declaration...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u130	It's a declaration. It is neither a resolution nor a decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u131	Good, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u132	...not the peoples (not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u133	Well, I understand it, I respect it, it's your place, to wait for the whole world to change until heaven comes. We fight it there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u134	All right, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u135	Why the former Eastern countries are on the right and right...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u136	Signing a proclamation with Kurts, is that how you're gonna change it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u137	This is Europe, Mr Karathanasopoulos. This Europe we want to change. You don't want to change it, you want to be outside. That's your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u138	Is that how you're gonna change it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u139	Okay, there's no dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u140	Your right, Mr. Karathanasopou. [[Noise - protests from the JRC wing]] All right, everybody, you'll be able to hear more than I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, please speak for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u143	The proclamation politically is stronger than a decision and leave these tricks now. There's a syndicate that we know well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u144	I don't know any trade union, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u145	You signed with the fascists on the day of anti-fascist victory, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Paphie, may I ask you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u147	Did you or didn't you? Is it unanimous or isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u148	Can I ask you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u149	Is it unanimous or isn't it? Does it say about curtains or doesn't it say? What's up, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Palphie, the former Eastern peoples...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u151	What people, Mrs. Readstopoulou? 40% of the Latvians won't vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u152	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u153	Mr Paphie, the former Eastern countries vote right and right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u154	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you don't sound. To finish Mr. Pallis, and if you want the floor, I'll give him to you right after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u155	Hand with them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u156	How's that gonna change?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u157	Always the proclamations are unanimous.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u158	Let me tell you. The more you talk, the more you're exposed. Understood? You know what you told us? That you went with the fascists. And sometimes there's been an attempt, don't open my mouth. I know that very well and he vetoed from your own Minister. But now, I'm saying, there's no passion...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u159	I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u160	Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, you don't sound. If you want the floor, I'll give it to you right after. Mr. Loverdos, have you asked the floor for another matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u161	Yes, Mr. President. I am not going to come back to this. I put it because last night I was in the Chamber and I was curious. My view is well-known, but bilingualism was the point I highlighted. I would remind Mrs Deputy Minister that I had lied to Mr Katrugalo, not for what you are saying, but for his political path, for the fact that he was a PASOK adviser a few years before going to SYRIZA. That is why I had described him in this way, not what we had debated at the time. Mr President, I have asked for the floor for a personal statement. I heard Mr. Theoharopoulos buying. I could tell him that Creatton speaks, slow down. But it's none of my business to advise anyone and no one to what route they're going to take. If, to say, we were talking out of the Chamber sometime, I'd tell him, Thanasis, why did you give us four years? Why did you do this to us? However, speaking, bystander. It has not only been exaggerated with the contents of his criticism of the party which has raised him and brought him to the House, but also with regard to my own, totally human reaction, trying in a wicked way, in a foolish way, I would say, to connect me to another political party. Listen. Here, everyone with what he says is judged and when he speaks, can judge. The courage is something that seems unspeakable. The courage is something that arises from the fact that you did not have time to be appointed and you came here to tell us how tourism will take place, how development will take place, and how nice you do it. You'd better let someone else say that. Your courage is what I am building and my lack of treatment. Because the elementary civil lawsuits mean and at least obliges, my child, to spend a few days and forget what you've done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u163	Minister, they expect Members to speak as well as ministers. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u164	Just a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u165	Give me a minute, Mr President. He attacked him and you won't let him answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u166	But it is a good request, Mr Theocharopoulos, to be brief. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u167	Really, you're probably judging the odds yourself. It doesn't explain any other way. Mr Loverdos, we do not operate in our own area in the way you have described and, of course, I hope that the majority of your space is not working in the way you have described. Mr. Loverdo, you were partying against PASOK at some point in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u168	I've never been in elections...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u169	And then you put it aside to become Minister of Government Samara - Venizelos. Return to become Minister of Government Samara - Venizelos! Just so we know who's got a lot of nerve in here! You have a nerve because, Mr Loverdos, your 'paulds' say right and left that I participated for a year, in 2012-2013, as a special secretary in the state - not in the government, but in the state - with the Government of course of the New Democracy - PASOK - DIMAR, in co-government at that time. You forget to say, however, that I resigned in 2013, I left the ministerial chair, because I disagreed with all the policies of the government and the very next day, after the "black" of the ERT, the Gender Fofi and you, became ministers of the government of Anton Samaras! Therefore, I understand and understand, but you should look in the mirror before you develop these arguments. Of course, look at your party as well. I could say a lot more, but I don't have to. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u172	Wait a minute, you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, will the Members not speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Fokas, why are you shouting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u175	We're going on a continuous basis on a personal basis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Mandas has also asked for the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u177	For thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u178	Can I tell you something? If we continue to do so, you yourself who support the process and how the course of the debate has flowed so far from the first day of the debate on the vote of confidence, do the same. Let the tons fall. There's no need for personal controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u179	I'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u180	Generally speaking, I'm not telling you alone. Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for a minute. Then Mr. Mandash will take the floor, and then we'll go to a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u181	It also emerges from Mr Theocharopoulos' denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u182	Now go on, trigger the climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u183	I'm telling him one thing. I'm a man of conflict.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u184	Are these personal, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u185	I've never been in elections with another party. You've been down in three years with three different parties!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Loverdo, this is well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u187	In December - January 2015, in September 2015, you are now preparing for the third time. You are the epitome of the man who is devoured. Mr Theocharopoulos, I repeat what I would say to you at another level and in another way. Why have you been practicing us for four years, after you revealed today that you were organizing it at the beginning with your attitude to votes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u188	Good. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I have to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u190	Any party differences you had in the past, consents, contradictions, will you resolve them here and at a personal level? Please. Please. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Loverdos answered for three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I will not delay you. Give me, please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u193	Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u194	In fact, I am surprised to see the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence thus characterising the cooperation of the progressive parties. While he said all the other four years "What valuable partners are", once a partner cooperates with the adjacent space on the left, he becomes a strategic opponent. Of course, when we talk about the theaters, Mr. Loverdo, look into the mirror of your parade, look into your parliamentary group that there are people who have changed parties that have made transcripts. I don't characterize them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u195	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Loverdo, in any case the gar of sorrow gives rise to insanity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Mada, you have the floor for a minute. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u198	I will not go into that, Mr President. One second I want to say a political comment on the JRC's intervention. I am convinced that, like Mrs Deputy Minister, she has given some explanations in trying to explain exactly how we have worked and in this particular case, and these will be further clarified. I'm absolutely sure. But to be identified on the side of the JRC and to say that we are the same as Salvin and Orban, I consider this to be an insult to the history of the left movement, as was your attitude to Macedonian.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Pappas has the floor from Golden Dawn for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u200	Thank you particularly for the representatives of the arch, the left and right archers, and especially here the left with the civil dispute, which heightened the Greek people's view, who disgustedly watched the two political leaders, Tsipras and Mitsotakis, in their in vain attempt to win the impressions. And I ask the hypothetical question: if that phrase, if this controversy, which is also a mirror of the political reality of all post-multiple, I would say, was made by a speaker of the Golden Dawn, what would happen? The Ethics Committee would have been mobilised. You would all say here 'a fascist attack'. The mechanism for imposing fines and perhaps the President-in-Office of the sitting - not you, Mr President, will understand who I mean - would call out graphics 'Stamps! Guard!’, for the guard to intervene. Both major parties - large so far - bet on the people's short memory, bet on the low instincts of man and anger. That is why I also call both cheap populists, hypocrites and pharisasians. Tsipras and Mitsotakis are no different from those who crucified Christ. They're the ones crucifying Greece. They're the same and they're incomparable, they're politically silent. He can't live without each other. Together, they voted hand in hand - the third and most destructive memorandum of August 2015. Are they not those who, in essence, voted to grant Macedonia's name to Skopje? Is it not the New Democracy which had consented so much by its Chief, its sister and its officials that - within introductory - 'national' policy is the complex name with a geographical breakdown vis-à-vis all? What else is "North Macedonia"?" Is it not Mr Mitsotakis who said in an interview at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition that the name does not interest him and will he be forgotten anyway? Are they not those who together voted to build the Mosques in Athens and elsewhere and thus lead our country to Islamisation? Does Mr Mitsotakis not himself who, along with colleagues from the neo-democrats, voted for the homosexual coexistence pact? They are the ones who jointly accept all these strangers, foreigners, and other religious elephants and invaders. And we hear Mr Mitsotakis say hypocritically: 'To take our neighborhoods behind crime'. Good. We have been saying it for so many years now that we of Golden Dawn have been calling it, and our politically ridiculous opponents have been exalting us and calling us racists. What crime, ladies and gentlemen? The crime that your vulnerable illegal protectors produce and experiences every day the Greek citizen in cities and villages. Crime evacuated by poachers. And I don't say it. They are official statistics of ELAS. He says we should take our neighborhoods back Mr. Mitsotakis, the one who welcomes and takes selfie pictures of irregular immigrants in this Chamber, who voted open borders and opposed and fought patriot Orban. Remember me, no objection will arise from the New Democracy, as it has not already come to an objection to the thousands of Greeks who have taken place, but will also be made more before the elections. Be sure. The pseudo-patriotic New Republic of political jifiagos instead of sending them from where they came from, as the Golden Dawn says, what he will try to do is instead of saying "We are ending the Tsipras. Good for SYRIZA to teach them to say "Good Kyriako, we're coming Nu Du." Who is Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy? Aren't they the ones dealing with the Turks who have voted together to reduce military service at times so difficult for our national sovereignty and our national issues? Aren't these two together who want Turkey to join the European Union? They are the ones that when the Turk perishes in the Aegean Sea and in Cyprus, they apply the policy of resentment and slavery, through the famous measures of confidence building. Yesterday, when Yiannis Rabbit from Golden Dawn said in his word "Exit Turkey from Europe", the well-known meddler and political othmanolag intervened - to say so - on behalf of the New Democracy and said that - in in introductory - "national" line for Greece and Cyprus is Turkey's accession to Europe. These are the patriots of the New Democracy who accuse the Golden Dawn and national issues of nothing different from SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place at the initiative of the Government in the context of its support from the New Democracy. In fact, the challenge of this debate took place on the occasion of Internet posts between the candidate MEP, you know, who was also a MP with the Economists in 2014, namely those who supported it - within an introductory - "Macedonian minority" and the Skopje's right to be called "Macedonia" and the graphic minister of the Government, Mr Polakis, yes, he was in Nicaragua who went to collect coffee, that is, he offered a job against education and his well-known photograph with the Kalshnikov. So the debate has turned into a vote of confidence by Tsipras and we have basically reached New Democracy to support SYRIZA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance for me, as you have shown the rest of us, please. All this comes at a time when we will have on Monday and Tuesday the vote of the bill with the hundred and twenty instalments. Mr. Tsipras took the opportunity, literally all that Mitsotakis gave him and turned the motion of censure to Paulakis into a vote of confidence in the government. And I repeat, if not all of this is, in fact, a New Democracy support for SYRIZA, then what is it? The people now understand, as our Chief of State said in his speech - and he will tell you this afternoon - how SYRIZA, New Democracy and PASOK harm all three Greece themselves. They don't only harm financially and nationally at home. They affect, above all, the social fabric, affect and dismantle the code of values of Greek society. Because this is where ethical issues are growing up. It is true, there is - and I shall end in a minute, Mr President - the Rules of Procedure of Members of the Greek Parliament. In Article 4 it says that the Member cannot accept gifts worth over 200 euros. The Golden Dawn for SYRIZA MP, Mr. Tsipras, has submitted to the Committee on Ethics a request for Mr. Tsipras to come in to explain to the committee, because he was given an explanation by the sailor. He wasn't hosted. Mrs Panagopoulou said so. He was assigned to the wardrobe. I submit the relevant document. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the Golden Dawn dared, regardless of the result, and made the request. The New Democracy what did it do? He's dealing with the handwriting Polakis. A hundred doses, you say. One hundred and twenty days is the Greek people until they send you where you came from.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u201	Finish it, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u202	I am sure that the Golden Dawn will be strengthened at this time, these elections despite the fall, despite the blockade. We are trapped in the country's third political power. But we are the first political power in the hearts of the Greeks. Next time. We are here stronger than ever and determined to take back what belongs to us: our country back. I call on those who live to choose the road of resistance, the difficult way that the Golden Dawn has chosen. Those who believe that Macedonia is only one and Macedonia are only Greek, those who believe in gods and homeland, to go with us. Greece will win.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u203	The Minister of State, Mr Flamouraris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the climate that has been shaped is not suitable for us to really be able to discuss the substance. Nevertheless, I will seek to bring back a climate that I would like there to be in the Greek Parliament. I do not wish to hide you that, following the announcement of the measures on the part of the Prime Minister and the Economic Staff who were referring to issues relating to the improvement of the large majority of the Greek people, which has affected all these years since the crisis, which has been connected with the country's progress towards normality, which has ultimately been linked to the recovery of the economy, I thought - it has been a mistake - that the Chief of Civilian Anti-Population will change his speech, his first speech, and will be included in the new framework that is being shaped in order, in fact, through a dialogue to exchange views, to collide, even loudly, on issues of substance. Unfortunately, we have fallen again - not by our own responsibility - in a dialogue - one that is dominated by the media at this time. There is so much dominance that I at least think that through these techniques I am not given the opportunity to rethink and be able to make a second and third thought, which I should like to reflect. As things run, however, I think that this does not only harm politics, but also harm art, culture, the overall functioning of society. Nevertheless, while listening to the Prime Minister's speech again, I am reassured, and I say 'with what he said we will enter a substantial debate'. Because the Prime Minister referred in detail to proposals and measures relating to society. He made a reference and a retrograde to the eight-year course, and at the same time to four and a half years and to the exit from the crisis and the memorials, which we have achieved through a stable budgetary option, so that we can really go through some things in Greek socio-economic life and start to breathe a world that has suffered all these years. With pearl? With pearl. Breathing, though. I think we've achieved enough these four years. I shall refer to one, not to repeat what is being said, but to make it really clear that you had the opportunity and the opportunity to have a debate, a debate on these crucial issues or on whatever issues you chose to discuss. The crucial issue that the other ministers have said earlier, such as the Minister for Health, is that much of the uninsured citizens had access to the health system, namely health, care and medication. It is a big deal about a truly critical group of people who, because of the crisis, had lost their rights in relation to insurance. On the question of freedom of the trade union movement, we intervened. And listen to that and the JRC colleagues, because the basic principles of collective bargaining have come back with our own...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u205	But that's possible! You dismantled the negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u206	The basic principles are back. We've moved on to abolish the underpaid wage, we've equald him to the lower wage. We increased and reached 650 euros. We didn't get to 751 euros. They're on our agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u207	There'll be a negotiation... (It hasn't been heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u208	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u209	All right, he can interrupt, but he can hear it. We're at 650 euros. Our target is 751 euros. We proceeded to facilitate and reduce insurance contributions to freelance professionals, young scientists, etc., who were affected by the system at the beginning. I think we have gone through a substantial facilitation. The big thing that you have all recognised, regardless of whether you deal with it, is that we have not moved forward and achieved the non-reduction of pensions. If you remember, on December 31st, the protection of the first residence referred to in the Katseli Act would end. And yet, we have succeeded in continuing with a qualitative difference: while the Katseli Act entered housing loans and did not enter business, commercial, free trade, into the law that we have passed, we have been hard to enter through negotiations too. So a freelance professional, a businessman who took a loan to make a business and put his first home for bail if he couldn't pay, lost her and had no means to get away with it. I think we did that. There are other measures that have been announced late in 2019, which will be legislation immediately and very quickly, such as the reduction of VAT to 13% and other facilities, but above all it is what we call the tenth-third pension, which, as most of you know, was divided into two phases. Half was given Easter, the other half was spent in the summer, and the fourteenth pension was at Christmas, or New Year's Eve. So to be clear to everyone, half the third pension, step by step, and that is a great success. A large part, those who have a pension of between EUR 0 and 500, will take it whole. One who receives a pension of 400 euros will get it all. One who gets 1,000 euros isn't gonna get it all, he's gonna get 75%. It is also a positive development in relation to what existed before. Because, as you know, all these issues have to do with, as you can see, the budgetary possibilities available, so that we can get what has been removed over the past few years and, above all, not from us, but from the first five years of the memorandum, we are slowly reintroducing them. On the basis of these measures announced, with which the debate started three days ago, I thought that we would proceed to a substantial dialogue, to oppose these specific problems. Sadly, however, the previous address of the Chief of Officerial Response in the House proved shocking and revealing. It has not been mentioned in any way in this content that has been given the opportunity to compare it with a substantial dialogue, but it has entered into the logic of this tripartite, which I do not know whether the press assemblies have imposed it or have chosen it because it has been facilitated by the press groups. I don't know which one it is. Besides, we don't care about it, it's your business to look into it. You didn't have this conversation, you had the conversation of this type I told you about. I, however, think that I am obliged to mention a few options made by your Chief and various members of your party, which very much reveal - if I am mistaken, to correct me - the extreme neoliberal proposal, which you do not present and which is why dialogue is not going to take place, which will really go far behind the attempt that has been made so far at the socio-economic and political level. Some of them you all know. It is the further expansion of the tax base, the Pinochet insurance system, is the privatisation of the subsidiary insurance system, and the provision of the tenth pension is populism. A crucial issue is the reintroduction - and I do not know how to resolve social policy issues such as hospitals, such as education, such as social security - of the five redundancies for an intake, which, in my view, are crucial for the process. Nevertheless, we are mainly informing the Greek people, who I believe remembers that these measures have been the ones that have caused them to suffer over the past few years. Promise me you'll bring them back. An indication or proof of this is your insistence and with such aggression that we do not have a proposal for the President of the Commission, while you have Verber. That's a big success! So it can be said that you, New Democracy, are characterized by a peculiar turbulence, behind anyone trying to hide this neoliberal and extreme conservative policy. That is why he thinks it is easy for him to enter the area of morality, of course, hypocritically, and without legalising. A good example is MEASURES. I do not want to go into these issues, the Minister of State, Christoforos Vernardakis, was detailed on the issues of HEIs and on the proposals and what we have achieved. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] But I would like to remind you of the hypocritical attitude - for many, not everyone - in the New Democracy that the different person is not human, is a quality. No personality, no opinion, no other aspects. If our diversity is tolerated, we make it a banner of social sensitivity. Otherwise, we deceive her if we don't condemn her. This is where I want us to agree, ladies and gentlemen. For us, diversity is not neutral. He is the man and the vulnerable and the LEADER and the refugee and the immigrant and the homosexual and for all of them we are struggling to live on an equal footing and without discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, some Members of Parliament have been awkward to you until even annoyed by the turn that the debate in this House has taken two days with the vote of confidence. It was a debate not only outside programme controversy, but it can be said that from some prominent New Democracy officials, such as its President and from both Vice-Presidents, it was intense and can be said by abusive. That is what you must look for, this change must be sought by you themselves so that you can really talk about a dialogue, which can be efficient, a dialogue that can be such that we raise the level of parliamentary debate, ultimately reject the populisms, which you are too ready to enter and make a substantial contribution to what Parliament is saying reflects on social problems and their solution. I'm done because the time has passed. I do not want to fail to mention the malignant and false reference to my face by the Chief of Officerial Response on the first day in his central speech, when he said that I am trading with several entrepreneurs. He threw a mud into it, which I'll invite him, when he's here, to explain. That is why I say, Mr Mitsotakis, that you are a genuine expressor of the bad tradition of your place, because in modern Greek history the right-wing party often did not respond to the difficulties with honesty. Because, Mr Mitsotakis, you are excellent in hypocrisy and empathy, because you are a champion of the monster you are denounced, of what is feeding with mud, lies, bilingualism, deeply underestimated for any popular and great empathy for the peoples, for many. You did the same thing yesterday, referring to me. Yes, I have open, clear meetings with everyone who asks for it in order to solve the problems. That is what I did with the Marinopoulos-Scholanite case to save thirteen thousand jobs. This is what I did with the Shipyards of Syros and we have two hundred workers over and Syros has breathed with the Shipyards of Syros, which you have closed and destroyed. The same is true of the Elefsina Shipyards, which need to be reopened. The same is true of many such industries that your policy has depreciated them so many years, that it has been shut down and that it has had workers drifting out of business and claiming a piece of money. One could say a lot about the first home law, to which I referred, about the refugee apartments on Alexandra Avenue, for the completion of the construction of the AEK's field without money, with their own - I have made it easier for you to leave, unless you do not want to say so - on the day-to-day life of the citizen, where on the sixth floor in Queen Sofia 15, twenty public posted daily are dealing with the problems of the citizens who go there and trying to work with the relevant bodies to solve them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u210	Please, shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u211	We have eighteen and a half thousand cases of this kind, and we don't solve one. In other words, we solve problems, which are group problems. We do not, in other words, act as rushphetological functions, but we resolve issues that concern groups. You could say a lot. Finally, I would like to say that if this country, our country, wants to move on, SYRIZA with the Progressive Alliance is a one-way road. Put it right in your mind. That's how you'll calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u212	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "Rigas and Revolution", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, another performance, mischief, is the truth, played these days in the House. The roles are divided, the scenario known, the viewers get bored. In this performance is missing the real people's suffering, the problems of youth, women, workers. The big picture is missing, everyday life. Now that the summer comes, so many families count and count again what comes out of them and what doesn't come out of them, if they'll send the child to study, if the good goes to college, to some school, if they'll go somewhere a few days or if they won't, why the tickets to our islands are too expensive, for the land there are very expensive tolls and say. And where do you get the better for the islands? You see, the unscrupulous shipowners, the ones who are also giving millions of euros, those who, if they wish, can also give the state something, they have raised the cost of holidays, which I said before, to God. So this work must go down an hour earlier and in the position of today's wretched protagonists that our people and the script should be their needs. In this case, our party will give all its powers, not, of course, as you can see, because some people are looking at me and wondered about a rotation of the same urban anti-popular governments. And, of course, I am referring to the forthcoming European elections, the municipal and regional elections, but also to the MPs, which are still an opportunity for our people to send their own message, the message that you have no authority to conduct a policy that is destroying both the present and the future, the message that there is no longer any confidence in anti-grass governments either with the trunk of SYRIZA or with the trunk of the New Democracy. And since we're talking about this artificial polarization you're both trying to create, we're going to remind you that polarization presupposes that both of you are two parts of the same class - or toxic, if you prefer - center, that is, a purely class policy, which either in crisis or in a revival of its basic condition is the burden on the many, the popular layers, the profits to the few, the great economic interests. That's capitalism, ladies and gentlemen. And capitalism and all the international organisations working for him have now given a vote of confidence to Mr. Tsipras and his Government. Besides, the Greek people now know very well and recognizes this dirty work that you have done on behalf of the great capital, on behalf of the last of Trump, Merkel, the other strong men of our people, for at least this phase. So, in this misplaced performance with the anti-grass script, fighting is done for who the party will be the first in the jar. However, we must admit that this show also involves comedy and drama, because the stones are also laughing at - that is why we are talking about comedy - with SYRIZA's attempt to convince that it is fighting for the interests of many against the elites. On the other hand, we share the dismay of the New Democracy to convince the elite that this is worthy of attention more than it has ever been, since SYRIZA enjoys the support of large business groups, NATO, the European Union's dominant circles. And the question is simple: is this controversy about the Greek people? It concerns the people who will work for the capital, for the great entrepreneurs against the people's interests, who will enjoy the support of those who, in the midst of the crisis, have seen their profits grow, while the incomes of the people's, the workers, the pensioners have fallen to the tartar. The dilemma for the people is not to whom businessmen drink their champagne, members of urban parties, SYRIZA, New Democracy, or KINAL. You're all in the same way. When you voted - SYRIZA and New Democracy together - the voluntary and even reduced taxation for shipowners, it is next for people to feel such an obligation and act accordingly on your needs for rest. Together you voted for all the big capital tax exemptions, monopolies subsidies. At the same time you were, when you voted together on the third memorandum, when one voted and the other applied the memorandum laws, as was done for the minimum wage. You are in the same way when you gladly attack the right of strike at the workplace. Such willingness, for which, gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Vice-President of the New Democracy gave you warm congratulations. So you are the scaffolders of capital, and that is why you cannot hide that you are interfering in the basics, in the main, dangerous scenarios that you are building for the future of our people, of their children. Unfortunately for you, an important part of the world has taken you. He doesn't want to stay in your show. He wants to be a protagonist in his life. It'll make the real difference. With the JRC even stronger we can give this decisive, the only hopeful and racing response to this rot that all the managers of your corrupt system are breathing. Ladies and gentlemen, this rot that breathes your system is not only dirty, it is also dangerous for the people. The latest developments with the violation of the Cypriot EEZ by Turkish geotrypan, with the threats of the Turkish Government for Cyprus and the Aegean, with the exacerbation of Israel's criminal aggression against Palestine, its bombings in Gaza prove how dangerous the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean is. The government of SYRIZA continues to ash in the eyes of our people, celebrating various statements made by officials of the European Union who are winged in the wind, even before the ink has been printed. After all, at the same time the European Union is facing Turkey as a strategic partner on behalf of, of course, European monopolies. NATO Secretary-General also visits Turkey to strengthen relations with NATO and the United States argue that they will in every way keep Turkey in the alliance. The SYRIZA Government, as well as the Opposition of the New Democracy, of KINAL, are trying to reassure the people that it will be won if it remains faithful to the alliances that the ruling class has chosen with the United States of America, NATO, the European Union, supposedly these herds of slaughterers and tripartite alliances in particular in the region will put a brake on Turkish aggression, that with the vision shared together on the geopolitical upgrading of the country and its emergence in an energy hub, we will ensure the security of our people, our country. The celebrations of the urban parties around the exploitation of hydrocarbons hide the great picture of the tension, the exacerbation of competition and the urban classes for energy reserves, but also between the various energy sources that collide. And, of course, all these competitions are manifested by interventions, wars, an apple of fire at all times. We don't have to go much back in time. Let us look at the example of Ukraine, which was and is an energy hub. There the involvement of the United States, NATO and the European Union, at the service of today's American Ambassador in Greece - this friend of yours who comes into the Ministries more often than he would seem to have been, from the point of view of the Petsiti or the others and you also visit him in the obvious and secretly every time - meant a coup there, established a government with extreme right-wing fascists, with hundreds of dead people and the fuse for a more generalised conflict, which is still smuggling there. In Syria, which was and is an energy hub, the imperialist intervention of the Americans, NATO, the European Union, the conflict of interest with other imperialist centres did not leave stone on the stone, with tens of thousands of victims, millions of outdated, while producing even more fuel to exacerbate conflicts in the region. In Libya themselves, in Venezuela, which was and is one of the largest oil producers, the most active involvement of the Americans and the European Union marks another attempt of a coup combined with open threats to military intervention. So here we are so insisting on highlighting the dangers that the common line of all these parties is about converting the country into an energy hub and into an endless American camp. That is why we insist that NATO and the European Union cannot guarantee peace, security of the peoples, the territorial integrity of Greece and Cyprus. And this seems to be an example, from now on, that 40% of the territory of Cyprus remains occupied by NATO's ally Turkey, which is increasingly questioning the sovereign rights of Cyprus and Greece, even presenting territorial claims. This Oriental bazaar is being held in the back of the peoples of the region, because even if there are winners of the country's involvement in the imperialist plans, they will in no way be the peoples of Greece, Cyprus, the people of Turkey, but only the monopolistic groups. People will always be among the losers. The SYRIZA Government is, therefore, unambiguous, because it constantly comforts the people, deepens the country to the imperialist competitions for foreign to the people, and even presents the shameful Ambassadors' agreement, which was cooked for the naval needs, and as a recipe for the Aegean and Cyprus. The solution and the way out, however, for our people and the other peoples of the region, too, is in conflict with these urban classes, with the European Union, with NATO, with their governments and, of course, is not in any way in any receptions or smiles with the 'Devitably Good' Trump, as you described it, nor with the tactics that you are used to, with the Palestinian massacrers who are now preparing to welcome the Eurovision bombardment. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, after you have kneeled our people for four years, after you have brought a third memorandum, after you have kept all the applicable anti-linguistic memorial laws, after you committed up to 2060 our country with bloody surpluses larger than those asked by the lenders, now resort to election, for good reason, to the known tactic "I steal you ten, I return one" and say. You are looking to continue the same anti-population policy, and this is confirmed by the speech made by the Prime Minister who has rightly stressed that the target of bloody surpluses will not be violated. These bloody surpluses, which have come to stay, mean new cuts in health, medicines, social security, even greater cuts in education expenditure. But it means warm money for large business groups. But you are also doing something else that shows that you are up to the bounces bound to serve capitalist profitability alone, the so-called resiliences of the economy, which only the people and their incomes are the only thing that can't stand. So you say, without embarrassing yourself, that our people must consider what has been lost in the crisis over the past few years. So what you are giving is, after all, to say that, because the recovery of the Greek economy, as you say, is directly linked to the global economic environment. At a time when you promise an increased rate of growth, we are internationally heading towards a new capitalist crisis, in which an economy as open as the Greek steam engine of which tourism and international transport are the only way to kneel down, with the clouds of a new crisis, which are already unmistakable, with competition, economic and trade wars, which in any case affect any recovery in Greece. In addition, you continue - you are masters in this, we recognize - to baptize the fish meat as the troika became an institution, quartetto, etc. In the past, like the permanent allowance, which you have baptized for the thirteenth pension. Really, was that the thirteenth pension the pensioners were receiving? Do you want to talk with numbers? The sum you give for this allowance is EUR 800 million in total and represents 39% of the amount paid each month by the ECA for the main pensions. Pensioners with their struggles did not demand a paid allowance, which will also be given with great differences, separating, categorizing people who worked a life of oblivion and their labors were lost, stolen, robbed by the governments until today, before the New Democracy and the PASOK, today of SYRIZA. And on this issue, however, you continue with the well-known and shameful logic of penthouses, ground floors and basements. And this is borrowed by PASOK - so downhill! - The old PASOK, the deep, the dirty! So go to the people who live not only these people, but their children and their grandchildren many times with a pension of EUR 900 mixed or even EUR 1.050 mixed and tell them that they are favored from above and that is why they will only get 30%. They'll take you with the stones, and that's right. The government is now electorally coming and is seeking to disguise itself in a saviour of self-employed people, not of course because the pain has caught it, but in order to limit the reactions that its own policy has given rise to following on from the previous governments. The self-evident debt haircut on the insurance funds is in fact not given to professionals, but is being extorted by the drastic reduction in their pensions, which leads to the recalculation of insurance contributions under the Katrugalos Act. And as if that were not enough, it turns out that these measures are actually of a collective nature, since the government is actually pushing them, which she has bathed in debts, in the guise, in seizures and auctions, and even for debts of EUR 500, to wait around the corner. At the same time, you are maintaining intact all the anti-grassroots arsenal, the taxation from the first euro, HICP, the trade fee, the municipal fees of all kinds imposed on the logic of compensation, the insurance contributions to 20% of income etc. Wait, really, to tell you "thank you" to self-employed professionals? Once again, gentlemen of the SYRIZA government. And you are even more provoking why you continue to ignore the elementary immediate relief measures demanded by the self-employed. Such measures, for example, are the immediate reintroduction of the duty-free limit for self-employed at 12,000 euros, the abolition of characters, the immediate abolition of interest, fines, increases in tax debts and EKA, the abolition of seizures of individual insurance debt, the abolition of the Katrugalo Law and the hunger pensions it introduces and several others. It is certain that, without the implementation of these basic measures, any arrangements will soon prove to be a gift again, as will the other so-called firm solutions that you have brought from time to time and your predecessors. Although the JRC has brought these claims of the self-employed in the House, you rejected them. Not that it makes us any more impression. You see, the self-employed are not like your friends in the big groups, the shipowners, who are inclined to do all the favors before they even ask. So don't cause, when you say the economy is yours. Unless, of course, you mean the economy of a few. And you obviously mean that, otherwise, the state debt charged to the people's backs and the reduction of which the SYRIZA Government had made its flag, has a steady upward trend, from 311,73 billion euros in 2015 to 334,57 billion euros, etc. The income tax on natural persons - employees, pensioners and others - from EUR 7,81 billion in 2015 was ejected into EUR 8,64 billion, with a growth of EUR 830 million. Indirect taxes - VAT and other raisins on popular consumption - increased from EUR 23.77 billion in 2015 to EUR 27.97 billion in 2018, i.e. by EUR 4.2 billion. The total expenditure of the General Government - here of course includes the insurance funds, the Local Government agencies etc. - for 2018 it contracted to around EUR 86 billion from around EUR 94 billion in 2015. The budgetary adjustment for the dismantling of government funds reached the astronomical level of 8.46 billion and 9%. In addition, government expenditure on GDP is on a continuous course of hurricanes. In particular, from 53,47% of GDP in 2015 was slashed to 48,91% in 2016, 47,34% in 2017 and 46,74% in 2018, despite recovery. Amongst the dozens of such interventions, too, are your reductions in pensions, based on the Katrugalos Act. The ESS of the low pensioners from 920 million in 2015 contracted to 98 million in 2018, of course in view of its definitive abolition, with corresponding "economy" - within import of course - on an annual basis for state budgets. The heating allowance for oil from popular households since 186 million in 2015 was caratized to 57 million in 2018. In other words, your savings are enough to give the state fund an estimated amount of 129 million a year. State subsidies to hospitals are also a key pillar of overproduction of surpluses. In particular, from 1.6 billion in 2015, they compressed in 2018 to 1 billion, i.e. 600 million, at 37.5%. All of this is because it is the very source of your surpluses, your bloody surpluses. And you have the courage to speak of the many who are suffering for your days. You are also celebrating the reduction of unemployment. Really? You do not see the eruption of part-time work, since on the basis of official figures, 55% of new jobs are with such employment relations, while the migration of young people abroad continues. This is the future you are preparing for our young people to share a job with two and three people. You are also celebrating the increase in wages. However, the own evidence shows that your average salary is squeezed down on your days. You're celebrating security measures at the workplace. However, accidents at work from about five and a half thousand in 2014 reached seven thousand three hundred in 2017, based on the data of the Labour Inspectorate. So many people are narrowing and your goal is to keep groaning. End of story in this. And the one hundred and twenty-dollar facility is intended to be forced by many who do not have to pay to the tax office and drain them the last euro. Such progressiveness! And don't start - like the various sluts you have to say - talking about strategic bad payers. Tell this to the four million people with due debts. Tell this to our almost two million people who are in danger of finding themselves out of forced recovery measures. Tell that to the eighty-three thousand people who have necessarily experienced recovery measures, such as the seizure of bank accounts and others. At the same time, you got hurt for many. The majestics have left this year tens of billions, which are considered to be definitively unwritten by the government and the tax emancipation mechanism. At the same time, with recent legislative interventions, tax on distributed shareholders' profits has been reduced, while the SYRIZA Government continued its unacceptable regime to regulate the voluntary contribution of shipowners, thereby reducing it to EUR 40 million. Of course, you're going to tell us that you're different because you're on the progressive front. That you are not liberalism and elites, that you are not of the right Vebber. Should we tell you who you are, gentlemen of SYRIZA? You're Trump's best partners. Trump's based on Ku Klux Klan. Trump setting up walls and murdering immigrants. You're the murderous state of Israel the best buddies who murder pregnant and young children. Now, since yesterday you have become the best partners in Orban and Salvini, because you are supposedly realistic and you do not expect paradise and you fight everything within the European Union, while we do not fight it in Europe, we fight it elsewhere. And it says so, your own Minister who said - you remember very well - read the Minutes if you do not remember - that the EAM today would support NATO and the Americans, on the occasion of the vote on the Tsipras - Zaev Agreement on the Prespecies. You'll tell me "the madness doesn't go to the mountains", why should anyone else say when logic has taken off the mind of the rulers? You're saying you're the Progressive Alliance. Of these, however, we have been filled and the Greek people have also been filled. Your so-called progressive forehead includes persons who in previous years have been distinguished as leading ministers and leaders and governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, with rich anti-grasswork. It is also made up of well-known anti-communist journalists to the terrorists, while others were members of your party, the coalition before, the SYRIZA after, after wandering from PASOK to Potami, DIMAR and elsewhere - remembering them now, I do not remember them all at this time - they ended up again in SYRIZA of amoralism, Technodioclastism, the Memorandum Policy. So progressive you are, and your responsibility is delaying the trial of the Nazi criminal Golden Dawn. The murderers of Paul Bridge and other fellow humans are released. You have even reached the point of the Decentralised Administration of Attica, which is SYRIZA - the Government - to annul a decision of the Athens City Council for not granting space to the fascist criminals of the Golden Dawn, as was the decision of the Athens City Council. You should be ashamed of yourself. But let us move on to another front, which you consider to be also emblematic for your Government. The Minister of Education may not be inconsistent, as he protested the other day, before unravelling his muddle, in order to get his answer from the JRC and especially from our parliamentary representative, but as the government in the previous round of "positive" measures, he sent thousands of assistant teachers, throwing them out of school, in the name of the recruitments he has announced. It's revealing what's behind this so-called social person who's struggling to wear, the really undercover arrangement that went through the multi-project vacuum cleaner for education. It passed a large-scale week to keep schools and schools closed - and not because you are atheist you have done this - the arrangement provides, among other things, for the housing of kindergartens in constructions - buildings of bad time, but of course - for six years in municipal, high school and high school courtyards. Truly, ladies and gentlemen of the government, who have not ceased to distort the reality of pre-school education in particular, which, instead of answering the documented arguments of the Communist Party of Greece, you choose to constantly take into account the issue of pre-school education, so you think about pre-school education, with infants stacking on inappropriate rough buildings, without suitable intangible spaces, together with children, five, ten and thirteen years older? You've done a lot in the field of education, that's what we recognize. And you can be proud, because you did what Mr Gavroglou promised on the day the Ministry received from Mr. Phil. He said then that he would take into account the OECD directives and the institutions. And these instructions you have literally served, as is proved by your things, which are accurate to the good of education and are poor, perverting its content. The essence of your government's educational policy, as confirmed by every relevant piece of legislation throughout this four years, is as follows: The poorer the people's family, the sooner it will eventually be its child's path to education and its work will depend on how much money the family can spend, the father, the mother in mathematics, postgraduate, seminars, certifications. By catching the thread from where the previous ones stopped, the SYRIZA Government sealed the conversion of high school into competition arena and placed on all aspects of the operation of universities on the market. It is unprecedented to limit general education by one school year with the signature SYRIZA, since, essentially, general education stops in the second high school with the logic "suffers hand, cuts hands". This is how III is trained - to the fullest extent this time - and the curriculum-centered character of high school, which is the main problem in high school. That's why the school owners are partying and expressing this even from the pages of your newspaper, "AYIS". By the SYRIZA Mergers, the SYRIZA Government implements the requirements of the Bologna Process, for the successes of which your Minister is proud, as stated last year by Paris. The results, of course, are tangible. You have tried to solve the question of linking the institutions with the profitability of capital by committing the students' studies and prospects to the chariot of their interests. In fact, SYRIZA tells young people and young people to put their degrees in a frame, to resign from the requirement to work on the object they studied, by stepping up the disconnection of the diploma from the profession. Ladies and gentlemen, three days in this House we have heard a great deal about both Mr Tsipras' Deputy Minister of Health and the really unacceptable attack on the candidate of the New Democracy, a disabled person, but we have heard nothing about their policy, which has led people with disabilities to isolation, unemployment, poverty. Together SYRIZA and New Democracy voted for the third memorandum, where there is an explicit commitment each year to cut about EUR 900 million out of welfare funds. With their own responsibility, thousands of people with disabilities live with anguish whether to salvage the poor allowance and disability pension from the slaughterhouse of the disability certification centres, that unemployment among the severely disabled, but able to work exceed 95%, that in the special schools - what they operate - is about ten thousand pupils, reduced by 50% compared to ten years ago when on the basis of international standards, over 10% of the total school population is in need of special treatment, that is, over two hundred thousand students. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's debate we call on the Greek people to vote against this government, to give it a strong lesson directly to the European elections and municipal and regional elections on 26 May. In particular, we call on all the left-wing, democrats, progressive peoples of our country to condemn a government and a Prime Minister who yesterday, on the occasion of the great anniversary of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples, who gave their lives millions of fighters around the world, went to Romania and signed it together with extreme right-wing racists, fascists, along with Orban, Kurts, Salviny, and the rest of the evil contingent of the European Union, signed a fascinating text - a declaration, a monument of anti-communism and the counterfeiting of history, which opens the way and for persecution against those who defended, defending the socialism we have experienced, and fighting against imperialism and fascism, but also persecuted by several countless regimes that are supposed to be in the past as a pretext of history. Ladies and gentlemen, for all the above reasons and others, which I no longer have time to explain to them, but which all the Members of our party have pointed out in detail these three days, we say a great 'no' to the SYRIZA Government and its overall policy and strategy. We do not give a vote of confidence to Mr. Tsipras' government. No tolerance to any misery stinks values and ideals, the dreams of our fellow humans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u214	Thank you. Please do not leave the JRC Parliamentary Group yet. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty students and students and four educational attendants from the Elementary School of Krestias. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we hope that at 20.00 with 20:30 we can go to a roll-call vote. The vote will take place by way of a vote. It'll be public. I would therefore ask that this House be given permission in this respect. If there is no objection - and I do not think there is - to make it easier, because until yesterday we were moving that the vote would take place after 23.00, or somewhere there, and because there are central events where the Secretary-General of the JRC and the parliamentary representative will be present, I would therefore ask you to allow us to give their vote - it has become clear either way or so from the speech of the Secretary-General - and to count on today's vote. The remaining members of the JRC will be present. I think that such a subject is also raised because there is the central speech today and Mr Kammenos's presentation. He'll tell us himself at 17:00 in his speech. We must have this tolerance, because it is precisely because we have changed and we have come three - four hours ahead of the economy of the debate. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u215	So since there is agreement, please, to keep the standard for services. Mr Koutsouba, you have the option 'NAH', 'OH', 'OR'. What are you voting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u216	I am voting 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u217	You, Mr. Paphie?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u218	I am voting 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u219	Please note. I would ask that you speak, Mr President, Mr Venizelos, for seven minutes because he has a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u220	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u221	Make it easier for you and me. Here, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure against Mr Polakis is not about his actions at the Ministry of Health. That's why we have a lot to talk about, but it's not here. The motion of censure relates to the spirit and style of power which it revolves, its behaviour. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Fear, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this debate and the desperate attempt to avoid it, in your desperate attempt to escape from the debate on the so-called moral advantage of the Left, you turn this debate into a vote of confidence in the government. In other words, Mr Tsipras supports Mr Polakis and his innocence. In fact, that is, you are entirely matched by these behaviours. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the male achievements of Mr Polakis, let us see what the situation is in the country today. Unfortunately, the consequences of the governance of SYRIZA - ANEL are manifestly visible to all social groups, in all areas of action of the current government. Taxes and contributions have flooded the daily lives of professionals and employees. Pensioners are living in uncertainty, while they should be enjoying pensions for many years. The security of citizens, which should be a self-evident principle, is unfortunately now a demand for the whole of society. Self-evident has become the abundance, lawlessness and insecurity. We saw it happen last afternoon on one of the most central streets in Athens, Bucharest. Education is experiencing an unprecedented regression on the basis of customer approaches, and it should be a lever of social progress and economic prosperity. Health is weak, and our country every day passes away from the central objective of accessing all citizens to high-level public health services. The State follows with a view to alleviating developments. We have a multi-fashioned public administration system that puts a brake on economic growth and social prosperity, instead of supporting the citizen, improving his everyday life and, of course, accounting for him. In national matters, the country seems weak to defend its rights, and after the national defeat of the Prespecies, we hope and wish to stop the loose approaches, because I do not hide from you that we are appalled by the shameful statements of government officials against the growing provocativeness of Turkey, such as those of Mr Tsironi, for example, for Kastelorizo that it is not in the Aegean and Mr Katrugalos who recognises economic rights in the Turks in the eastern Mediterranean. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, is visible. We live and experience all of them in our family, in our everyday lives, in our relatives. But what is less visible and the government is trying to make normal - but it is not - moral deception, moral hypocrisy on the left, because in the Code of the Left hypocrisy allows contradictory behaviours for common sense, but completely normal for the Left of SYRIZA. At SYRIZA you can attack capitalism, but you can enjoy his goods. At SYRIZA you can be in favour of public education and of private universities, but send your children to private schools and have studied several of the members of the government at private universities abroad. At SYRIZA you can talk about fascism and Golden Dawn, but you can hang on to the far right ANELs and when the Golden Dawn puts back on, you can forget the trial. In SYRIZA you criticise that the so-called New Democracy is the old political system when you have dozens of fossils of the old political system and the interlocutory. At SYRIZA you can talk about social justice and equal opportunities, but - I hope not everyone - you are whistling indifferently when Mr. Paulis attacks Stelios Kymbouropoulos. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that everything is united by a straight line of Tsipras - Polakis. That is why you do not dare to discuss in Parliament the proposal of distrust of the New Democracy against this Minister. That is why you are blackmailing your Members with party discipline. So you are, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and others willing, all of them "Polaces", because "Tsipras equals Paulakis", i.e. it is one and the same. That is why it is chosen that Mr Tsipras be identified entirely with him. After the false dilemma of the old and the new collapsed after the muddy narrative of intertwining collapsed, after the argument of the extreme right-wing part of the New Democracy collapsed, you are looking for a new account. And you found Paul. Mr. Tsipras chose consciously within a few seconds of what is happening in the House, just before Easter came and spread a protection net to Mr. Polakis. But we're clear. We, our party, are with the many and not the "Police". Ladies and gentlemen, citizens know very well that in addition to the problems we face as a society, we need to talk about a new worthy framework. We need a new worthy code, which includes better democracy, essential freedom, effective but also uninterrupted functioning of institutions, a worthy code that ensures dignity and respect for the fellowman. New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis are embodied in this worthwhile code, because strong, reliable, stable and democratic institutions do not only have political significance, apart from the state's foundation and a characteristic of the quality of democracy, but they are a factor of social cohesion and prosperity. A state in which its institutions are small will soon find that with small institutions it is not possible to expect big things to happen. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the presidential office.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a 'Police' state cannot and must not succeed. A state by Moroccan immigrants, by unrepentant prisoners who circumvent the institutions, who mock the citizens, by decayers, by people who are concerned only with the prestige of power, cannot but must not succeed. And that is what everyone knows, even people who belong ideologically to the Left. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We call on you to condemn the decline of public life, the decline of Tsipras - Polakis and those who support them and collide with real progressive governance. The country needs another direction and real hope. We are in the final straight before the European elections and the self-government elections. We call on all citizens in the polls to condemn the Tsipra - Polakis ideologists too. In conclusion, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, a question publicly. Would you attack the same as Mr. Paulakis did to Mr. Kymbouropoulos? I urge you here, in Parliament, to take a stand and say 'Yes, I would attack this. I am not condemning Paulakis' behaviour and I am voting 'yes', i.e. defending and rewarding his behaviour or saying 'no, I would not attack it. I'm not expressed by Paulis. I condemn his behaviour and vote 'no'. Take a seat now. Ladies and gentlemen, the immunity for the so-called left is no more. The Prime Minister will be judged on his work, actions and omissions as Prime Minister of the country. There is no ideological alibi or moral advantage on the Left. We are all judged on equal terms and cannot invoke the alibi, while at the same time he feels that he has the right to muddle and slander families or former prime ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u223	Please, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u224	Two more lines, Mr President. I do not want to mention the relationship between Paul Tsipras, the father of today's Prime Minister, with Juda. I'm stopping here. I only testify in the Minutes to the testimony of the former Deputy Minister and executive of PASOK Mr. Phoevos Ioannides in order to be at your disposal. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Eleftherios Agygeakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and four their teachers from the Roitikos Achaea Municipal School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u227	To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u228	My name was mentioned in the speech by Mr Augiakis in a slanderful manner, and I have to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u229	Here, Mr. Cironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u230	Unfortunately, the war of mud, slander and make news continues. It is well known that the limits of the seas by international law do not give rise to any legal right in any country at all. So Kastelorizo has exactly the same rights as all the Dodecaneses equally, a single shelf, a single exclusive economic zone and, therefore, what Mr Aeggeakis said about my face are slanderous. Finally, to discuss politics and not lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u231	Please, Mr. Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, we must put the debate, not only on the parliamentary debate, but on the general public debate that is taking place in our country on a subject. The question is the real situation of the place, the dangers which are too many, the obstacles, the possibilities and the prospects at last. We must start from the state of society itself, from its fears, its deep tiredness, its great resistance and its mistrust. Unfortunately, society is disappointed and unprepared to accept the need for a national reconstruction plan based on systematic reforms that restore both competitiveness and social justice. Unfortunately, the image of the country is the image of a total derailment. The national derailment has never been so universal and so obvious. This debate on parliamentary confidence regardless of the constitutional issue if a motion of censure against a minister can be put on a motion of confidence by the government itself does not end this afternoon, this evening, with a disciplined party and symbolic vote in this House. It continues because in just ten days the Greek people will express themselves, directly, genuinely unfaithful to the government. The legalisation crisis will be exacerbated with great economic, institutional and moral implications. The moral crisis, not moral, is the extreme point of the political and social crisis. In the last three years, unfortunately, every measure of personal and political ethos has been lost, the dual language, the lie, the sorrow, the brutality, the arrogantness are dominated. The divisive logic prevails, which is the logic of nationalistism, as the government expresses with the artificial majority of the majority made up, not only by the SYRIZA Members, but also by MPs who belong ideologically and appreciably in the field of the far right, but also by MPs who belong to the most provocative political humiliation. This bizarre logic is gained by a sign and anthropological traits. Is he playing with the violence that erupts from society's resources as a deflection? As a demonstration I would say, not of freedom, but of an unspeakable freedom expressed by the government at the highest level. This is reflected in what is said in the common language scarce, which wants to hide political fear and fundamentally preserve the radical Left that is compensated for by manifestations of supposed disobedience within a virtual rebellion. SYRIZA, who is in agreement with all the foreign interlocutors, who are - as I have said many times - the delivery boy on all issues, the favorite of all the foreign players and the highest layers of Greek economic power and oligarchy, SYRIZA, therefore, perceives the country as a great armour that he wants to control. The provocative theory of the supposedly moral advantage, a moral advantage on the Left, is a profoundly totalitarian theory. Because when they say "ethical advantage", they mean historical advantage. They mean an alleged advantage resulting from the exclusive knowledge of the laws of history. This holistic concept that feeds them and which is the core of their thoughts leads them to a totalitarian perception. This is unfortunately the residue that SYRIZA leaves from what is called "the first time left". This is a government in a stall behind the theory that it supports the many, while at the service of the very few. It is the Government of Legislative and of course a social redistribution, the redistribution of overcrowding, through countermeasures and benefits which, however, have a very expensive price, the price of economic, developmental dedication of the country. They are hitting neoliberalism, which I do not know if anyone is expressing it in Greece, not even in the European Union. Who supports the neoliberal concept in our country or in the European Council? It would be very interesting to discuss this. And apply what? A Kenyan conception, a concept left-wing, progressive? Oh, no. They apply a primitive, reversed monetarism. They systematically repudiate and in cold blood knowing what they are doing, all the liquidity of the economy that they despair in anaemic growth, stagnation, a policy based on overtaxation, overweight with insurance contributions, the policy of overcrowding, which Mr Tsakalotos last year, in July 2018, had told me here in Parliament what is not inconsistent is theoretically the pro-excessive ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u233	I never said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u234	We formulate them as notional, as concepts, but we will not achieve a cash surplus. We will have received the countermeasures that allow us to take this theoretical surplus. I have the minutes of our debate here. I've got them here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u235	You should testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u236	Well, of course, I'll testify. I haven't brought it like this, per l' more del arte...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u237	The lies have a lot of legs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u238	I'll testify to make you aware of what you have said in the House, how you have misled yourself and others. And you come now and say: Here is the election package of the SYRIZA Government and partners. I am not talking at all about the benefits package for the period 2020-2022, because the period concerns a next House and a next government. But it matters what you say about the period 2020-2022. You say: We make advances and commit 5.5 billion, which corresponds to 1% each year, from 3.5% of the primary surplus that we are committed to achieving in 2020, 2021 and 2022 and by paying this 1% in a committed account. And in a manifestation of good faith, I say that these 5.5 billion are a product of cash, it is in advance a surplus, it is not a transfer from liquidity that is another thing, it is an advance received surplus. I am putting it into the hands of the partners, that is, I am paying at the earliest opportunity an important part of the debt service for the years to come, an important part of the interest. Is that what it means? It means, first, that he accepts celebratingly, putting SYRIZA in a direction in 3.5% as a primary surplus target until 2022. It undermines the Greek people's ability to elect a parliament and to show a government that claims, as KINAL says, a financial area, it demands a smaller primary surplus target until 2022 in consultation with partners. Here comes SYRIZA and supports the arguments of the most extreme partners in order not to reduce the target for primary surplus of 3.5% by 2022. They are budgetaryly declaring the country in budgetary suffocation, at the expense of growth, at the expense of the middle-class, at the expense of employment and at the expense of the pensioner. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] What will the retired person do with this, if his child has no job, or if the grandson works in a part-time job with a total salary of EUR 300 per month, as shown by the Greek Statistical Office and the Ministry of Labour? The second thing the government is doing, with this supposedly impressive captivity move in the country, is that it accepts that the target of 3.5% of the primary surplus by 2022 and about 2.2% a year by debt repayment, that is to say by 2060, applies regardless of the rate of growth, regardless of the actual growth rate, which will be achieved, because it has been first accepted and paid up. See what happens, what impact is the election stress and the total lack of national and institutional responsibility of Mr. Tsipras when he makes such moves and makes these supposedly announcements, see what damage causes the country over the long term and how he prevents the Greek people from improving his position through his new political options. But let's go to benefits in the last few years of 2019. It's, it says, services that bring VAT to the focus where we had it in 2014. That's a great success! Reduction of VAT on energy, in order to compensate for increases and, in particular, the abolition of the bonus of the well-being payer of the debts on energy. In other words, it is to facilitate PPC's financial survival for a number of months rather than for consumers and citizens. What about the pensioners' allowance? Do you know what this emblematic movement is covering, the pleasantness that all people need and should be given in full? However, they should be given the fullest possible amount. Should the amounts at issue not be fully allocated on the basis of the case-law of the Council of State and the Court of Auditors? What does the government have for 2019 and 2020-2022 for retroactive decisions on wages, pensions and gifts? What about the settlement and payment of the pensions of young pensioners who wait and wait and wait? What about the inequality established by the law of Katrugalo between old and new pensioners? What about public debts and what about the implementation of the public investment programme? What leads to the establishment and captivity of the economy is not the subject of discussion, because the government is not interested in the future of the country, and is interested in staying a little further in power. I am not talking about the level of institutions, courtesy and extortion of justice, the collapse of parliamentary procedures, I am not talking about foreign policy, not about easy issues in relation to the Ambassadors' Agreement, but about the difficult and real security issues linked to the Cyprus and Greek Turkish relations, the situation in the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean. And, of course, we are going to the European elections, to a great debate on European relations and the future of European integration, with Greece absent, with Greece not being able to participate substantially in this debate that is taking place in the absence of it. The country must lead to a political cleansing as soon as possible. The last six months of this government that we have been through and that I hope it will not be a full semester, it is and will be, ladies and gentlemen, equally injurious and damaging, long-term damage and harmful, in the first half of 2015. This must be a consciousness in the House of Greeks and above all it must be in the consciousness of the Greek people fully recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u239	And I thank Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u241	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Venizelos said that once I said the surpluses were theoretical. I haven't said it, or at least I don't remember it, because I don't believe it. If I have said so, I will buy him a whiskey or a drink of your desire, Mr. Venizelo. If I haven't said it, the whiskey is my drink. Why can't I believe it's theoretical? What is the difference before the Memorandum and after the Memorandum? Before the Memorandum, the financial area had to be pushed by the institutions not to give it until the end of the year. What are we doing now with the package that will be discussed on Monday and Tuesday? We are talking about measures in the middle of the year. Permanent measures, contrary to what you said. It was never theoretically the memos, but I accept that I may have made a verbal mistake. That's the difference. Today we are discussing and saying, because we have credibility, that this can be spent and that we do not have to run out of time and get to November or December. That's the difference. As for the 2020 strategy, I think you did not understand it well. The special account is a guarantee. The Member States can take them forward, they can take them every year, they can take them at the end of the third year, but in fact, what we are saying is that when we have development, these measures we have announced and we will discuss them on Monday and Tuesday, they help us to have growth, so that we can be better placed, so that we can be consistent with our obligations. How about 3.5%? Are you saying that you will come from day one and will be told by the institutions and the Member States that the targets will be reduced? That's not possible. We have a strategy, to start from 2020 essentially with 2.5% primary objective. That's the difference. As much as the friends and friends here of the New Democracy are neoliberal, I will allow them to answer for themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, I will give you the floor. Minister, I would ask you not to ask again why we should proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u245	But Venizelos can't speak lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u247	On 13 June 2018, as recorded on page 8822 of the volume of the Minutes of Parliament, I am told by Mr Tsakalotos in relation to the excessive surpluses of the period until 2022 the following. It is a table, it is Mr Tsakalotou's words, which show that: 'The surplus of about 2% - I do not remember right now - goes to about 3.5%, to 4,96%, to 4,15%, to 4,50% and 5,19%, if I say it correctly. Mr. Juliarakis explained to you that I too..." - says Mr. Tsakalotos - "that these figures are not the new target. We do not aim to overcompensate 3.5%, 3.9%, etc. These are not the objectives. They're on the board to help in the conversation. They're just showing what the primary surplus would be if we didn't do anything. So they're not new targets. We're not aiming to be overcrowded. And they arrive and have...".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u248	That's very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u249	Wait a minute. Here's what you've done. And they arrive to have a cash surplus in 2018, while the objective was not to have cash surpluses in 2018 on the basis of countermeasures. And they now come to the period from 2020 onwards, knowing that the great debate is gradually, not at the first time, a new government showing its credibility to be able to reduce the primary surplus target, focusing on the fraction, that is, the growth rate, and that is what they are canceling, because they say: 'Yes, take 5.5 billion at the disposal of the partners. 1% of the primary surplus we have already gathered from the blood of the economy in previous years, from overcompensation of surpluses." And Mr Tsakalotos says "development...". But what growth? All these measures help to consume, because of course if the retired person gets the allowance he needs, which he needs to take, he'll throw it into consumption. So we stand at 1.2. 1.9 says the institutions and the Bank of Greece. I wish we were able to stand at a growth rate in 2019 that is just over the unit. If there were no such consumption, we would be below 1% in real growth rate. So, what you are doing, the caging of the economy in anaemic development, the drag to make such a customer redistribution and a dedication of society to low expectations and benefits, is a crime at the expense of the nation's perspective.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u251	Thirty seconds, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u252	I think that you all understood - and because I have two well-established lawyers on my right, I will not say legal arguments, I withdraw this because I do not want to touch on the good colleagues here - that what you have read was quite right. That's exactly what I said, that's when you see the medium-term or the budget plan, you have a target and you say what happens if it's more. That's right. In that sense, it's theoretical. However, the surpluses that we will now spend in advance are not theoretically true. Thank you. Because I'm a good man, I'll say it was an honorable draw, so we can drink butch.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u254	Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u255	To make it easier for you and the Minister and the honourable Members, I will leave the last word to the Greek people on May 26th.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u256	We're moving on. Let me tell you what's going on. Now he's Mr. Danellis Independent MEP...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u257	No, Mr President, I was about to speak at 10:45 and it's 14:45.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u258	That's the turn, Mr. Kotzia. What am I supposed to do? After Mr. Venizelos, it is Mr. Danellis, Mrs. Ahtsoglou, Mr. Kotzias and Mr. Kourakis. That's the show.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u259	No, Mr. President. It's way behind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u260	If that's the turn, what am I supposed to do to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u261	Then there's Mr. Dannelis. After Mr. Venizelo, I would speak. Mr. Kourakis was very far back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u262	What am I supposed to do to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Aggenakis was after me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u264	What are you talking about, Mr. Kotzia? Excuse me, this show...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Dannelis isn't even on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u266	That's the turn the Services give, I'm not doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u267	I'm withdrawing from a speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u268	Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u269	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Kotzia, Mr. Dannelis is retiring.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u271	There's no way! After four hours...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u272	But, Mr. Kotzia, I'm not the one who determines it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u273	You and your services. You're head of the Services. You're not a national.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u274	Please, Mr. Dannelly, are you withdrawing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u275	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Dannelis is retiring.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u277	There's no way. I will not contribute to this misery at 10.45 seconds telling me that I am the next speaker and after four hours I have not taken the floor, I will not contribute to this misery being given to third parties for hours. I am a Member of Parliament who has come and spoken here as Minister and MP four times all and you do not give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Kotzia, you have. First, the Services determine it. Secondly, Mr Dannelis said that he was giving the post to Mr Kotzia, so there is no question. Creating issues of non-existent is easy. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I would ask you, Mr. Dannelly, to take the floor for seven minutes so that we do not have delays beyond 20.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, because Mr. Kotzias could have taken the lead, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u280	Just a minute, please. Mr President, read the order of speakers. It was Mr. Kourakis still then. Read the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u281	Tell Mr. Kotzia that Mr. Voutsi put them in front of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u282	I didn't set the show. Therefore, Mr Kotzia, you are wrongly complaining.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u283	Retire from the Bureau if you are a member of the Services. How did the show change?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Voutis fixed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u285	Change with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u286	I have a list that he's not a speaker of now. Let go of your tricks!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Danielle, start, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Augias is three MPs after me speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u290	Our turn's changed, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u291	You're welcome, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel that the mud and the orchestra of attacks I took, and I accept because I was a hundred and fifty-sixteen Members who voted for a vote of confidence in the government in January, was worth it and I would do so again. I'd still do it again at the same cost for my personal and family security and peace. I'd do it again at the same cost for my honor and reputation. Because the benefits of supporting the present government, free of really toxic Kammenos, are screaming. And it is not only the national interest from the patriotic resolution of the Macedonian pain that we were carrying on our backs thirty years, but it is also all those measures of economic and social policy that are reconstructing the Greek society, the Greek economy, the Greek reality. If this government had fallen in January, everything would have been different, it would have been completely different. Everything would be worse, with a tough, hard re-engineering and authoritarian right, with a right that does not hide its disdain for the ideas of the Left, which does not hide its neoliberal idealism. However, as much as it insists on the policy of the keyhole and the gossip, and as much as it insists on raising a minister's twitter on a major political issue, society boasts. 'It's the economic, stupid', bad lies. In the end, it's always the economy. And the truth is that the economy is going well or, at least, it goes far better than the opposition, Greater and Olives, and of course it is linked to the media. And it goes well, not because that's what the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance claims, but because they see it, because more and more people feel it. The economy is climate, it is a feeling that we left the worst behind, it is optimism, but also based on numbers. For the third consecutive year we have positive growth rates. The word behind all this: trust. Because of confidence, we have again gained access to the markets. Confidentiality ensured cheaper access to money markets, i.e. lower borrowing rates than the start of the crisis. For the Memorandum is a past. Obviously, in this upward spiral it starts, not everyone participates in the same way. Specific parts of the Greek people have paid a higher price and their financial losses over the last eight years, nine years are disproportionately large. Therefore, a return to normality could not be considered without the elementary support of those who lost most. This includes the measures announced by the Prime Minister yesterday. Obviously, these measures do not all agree. The European federations of the New People's Party reacted immediately, by means of the chosen and the new Republic, Mr Weber. He spoke about irresponsible economic decisions by Mr Tsipras, which other Europeans have to pay, and he added, of course, that the PPE does not agree with the prospect of a European insurance policy for the unemployed. Yes, it is the same one who was leading Greece's exit from the Schengen area and the Eurozone, cologne, from the European Union. This is the European vision of the Conservative Right in all its glory. But if you have such friends, what do you want with the enemies? But that is what the New Democracy colleagues who will support Mr Webber for the Presidency of the European Commission will have to answer. The thought of the New Democracy is distinguished by a generalized confusion. It denounces the Government for election measures at the same time as it claims that these measures are a copy of its own proposals. Her chosen, Mr. Webber, renounces them after abomination, but she will vote tomorrow, and soon after that she will vote for him. This is the absolute salt. And this trifle finds a way out of the diversion of political controversy, in the glossy, the gossip, the keyhole, the tooling of disability. We have, of course, also those who believe that the SYRIZA government is not progressive. They're blurring the concepts. They're playing with words. They make incomprehensible mental constructions, trying to cover for themselves. But SYRIZA, with his alliances, is now the main body of progressive forces in Greece. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, the Left has grown up in the past whenever it opened up to society and measured defeats whenever the porcupine syndrome prevailed. And those who say that SYRIZA is not progressive are forgetting that the progression of each of us, like political liberalism, if they have emerged somewhere in recent years, has been precisely in these specific initiatives of this government. The sun from the wheat distinguished itself on the most important issue of the Prespecies Agreement. And the study for many to wear the Macedonian uniform was great. But before the Embassy Agreement, it appeared from where the progressive policies were going: human rights and citizens' rights, alleviating inequalities for the sake of the weakest, actions to reorganise work, actions to increase social wages, the new framework for the protection of first residence, in this particular proposal on Constitutional Revision. All of this had a political name and surname. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, if you look at the finger rather than what the finger shows, if you are fascinated by the keyhole policy, if you bring the Prime Minister's invitation to the ship to an official partner, months later, if you are engaged in terms of hard American political marketing, that is - because this is what it is - and if you are disappointed that SYRIZA executives are not sufficiently left, because you think that you own the "left" "left" and don't be left, if you look abominably at the speech of the Deputy Minister of Health, but you tolerate the supposedly repentant farts who hold top positions in your party, eviscerating food cheetahs, practicing with cucumbering conditions, then in fact you are the populist and let you hate any more populism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need a minute more, Mr President, because I did not start my time. And if there is no other word that characterizes you by hypocrisy, it is because an unbearable hypocrisy poisons every manifestation of the political life of the place, an unbearable hypocrisy that does not allow democratic dialogue, an unbearable hypocrisy that is constantly frustrating from the discussion of proposals, solutions and programmes, and leads to political depreciation in terms of obscene, vulgar titles of "Mileio". Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that ethics always comes to cover the absence of morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-seven students and students and four teachers attendants from the 35th Municipal School of Heraklion. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, we announced with the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance a package of relief measures for the vast majority of Greek citizens, a package of measures targeted, but the most critical of all, a package of permanent measures. With these measures, in fact, we are changing the economic policy map and the map of low and medium-income households. This is a change that has in fact begun since August 2018, following the exit from the memoranda and the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki in which the Prime Minister announced a number of measures that have already been implemented. With the measures we presented Tuesday, from this year 2019, we reduce VAT on catering and food from 24% to 13% and energy from 13% to 6%. We are also introducing the new thirteenth pension, which is a permanent measure to strengthen the income of all pensioners in the country. The third pension will be granted to all pensioners, in other words two and a half million of our fellow citizens. It is a permanent measure, which will now be strengthened on an annual and stable basis the incomes of pensioners in this country. However, we have also presented a strategy to reduce primary surpluses by 2022 to 2.5%. It is a strategy that has full economic cohesion and that allows us to take additional positive measures in the coming years. I think that this strategy, this political decision, the political world of the country should applaud it, welcome it, because it is a reserve for the future. I appreciate that Mr Venizelos, if I followed his position, did not understand this strategy as we developed it. Our strategy does not say that we are advanceing the primary surpluses, as Mr Venizelos said. Mr Venizelos said that we are prepaying the primary surpluses that are locked at 3.5% by 2022 and that in this way we are actually committing the country and keeping growth down. It is precisely the opposite of what we are doing. The reality says that the primary surpluses are not so placed in a country for fetish reasons, but are set in order to meet our debt targets every year. We say, therefore, that precisely because these primary surpluses are high - we never commented that they are not high - we will take down the primary surpluses by 1% and take them to 2.5% from 2020 to 2022. This will make it possible for there to be a growth dynamic in the economy greater than today that will help us to pay, to serve our debt interest for the coming years with this 2.5%. But what do we say? If this were to be the case, it would simply be a proposal that should be negotiated and discussed and put to the partners and that there should be the necessary dialogue and time spent. We, therefore, because we have ensured a significant amount in our reserves, tell our partners that we are putting the EUR 5.5 billion guarantee on a special account in case what we have as a political strategy does not happen. For the extreme case where what we say will not happen, we place these 5.5 billion there as a guarantee. It is therefore precisely the reverse logic of what Mr Venizelos understood. We do not prepay for the primary surpluses. We are lowering the primary surpluses and making a guarantee for the extreme case, which we say will not happen, in the extreme case that with these low primary surpluses we cannot pay, serve our debt obligations. That's the perception. The political substance, however, seems to be somewhere else in Mr Venizelos' reaction. If you noticed, Mr Venizelos said that the problem is that if he or Census came to the government, they would go into a process of gradual renegotiation to lower the surpluses, gain credibility and perhaps be convinced at some point. The problem is that with the move that we are making, we are actually removing all this position from them. Because we do not enter into a process of gradual renegotiation. We are reducing the surpluses for 2020 from now on and we are creating the necessary space, which is obviously causing them a programming and a political deadlock. That is why he tried to reverse - unless he did not understand - what we said a few days ago with the Prime Minister in Zappeion. However, I also come to a number of comments that I have heard these days and from Mr Brutsi - they are not here to hear my answers, once again - and I have heard them repeated by Mr Venizelos, and I have heard them very much say them, Mr Mitsotakis. So he said, both Mr. Brutsis and Mr. Venizelos a little while ago that with these measures for 2019 we are doing nothing more than to restore what we found in 2014 and it is also a little shame to rejoice that we restored what we found in 2014. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are not bringing back what we found in 2014. Because, if we restored what we found in 2014, the minimum wage should be at EUR 510 for young people and not at EUR 650 for those who are today and our funds should be empty and not have EUR 30 billion for them. If we restored what we found in 2014, our unemployment should be at 26% rather than 18% that is today. If we restored what we found in 2014, we should manage primary surpluses agreed by the then government of 4.5% and not 2.5% with which we are working today for the coming years. If we restored what we had found in 2014, the Greek bonds, at best, should move to 5%, the confidence indicator being on the tartar, the sign on the investments should be negative. If we restored what we found in 2014, uninsured people should have had no access to public health and not today to all uninsured people in public health and the public system. If we restored what we found in 2014, the welfare budget should be at 700 million and not at the 3 billion that is today and GDP is down by 25%. If we restored what we found in 2014, the public debt should be unregulated and not regulated as it is today. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Therefore, no, we do not bring back what we found in 2014 and thankfully we do not bring them back! But I also heard Mr Mitsotakis yesterday, as well as Mr Brutsi, describe the new tenth pension as a 'European election' or a 'purchase allowance', as Mr Mitsotakis said. Once again, I believe that the President of the Police Department does not understand who offends when insulting. When the President of the Police Department speaks of a "purchase allowance" for the thirteenth pension, he does not offend the government, he does not offend us. The pensioners are insulting and the people of the labor are insulting, as they were offended, and when they said that the tenth wage is a provision of the client state. The 15th third is not the provision of a client state. It's a wage. It is part of the wage and it is a conquest of the workers, as is the tenth pension, which we are relocating. So it does not offend us with these positions. And then I heard another criticism Mr Venizelos made before. In conclusion, Mr Venizelos was Vice-President of the government who made the cuts to pensioners, including the abolition of the Easter gift to retired people. He has his own signature that law. And today Mr Venizelos, like Mr Brutsi, comes to us in a second year that - he says - the amount we give for the thirteenth pension is not enough. It is 800 million - it says - and it is not a full pension for everyone. In fact, Mr Brutsis accused me of two days ago that, as a government, we went to frustrate pensioners by speaking of a thirteenth pension. First of all, I would like to say that when we went to Zappeion, I went there too, and the Prime Minister immediately gave me the floor, precisely to describe the structure of the new thirteenth. Let us say that those who take up to EUR 500 will receive a full pension, those who take EUR 500-600 will get 70% and go by and say. So I don't think if a serious man wanted to fool, he'd go there to show up with numbers and evidence what this new architecture is. I think this is a totally funny criticism. However, this, which for me is an opposition to despair or despair, is when Mr Mitsotakis comes out a few days ago and says he would never give a third pension, 'it is not possible' he said, 'I would never do it, if I came to the government', then come again or through Mr Brutsi and give us a resignation for the amount of the thirteenth pension. Is it possible for the President of the Civilian Operation to say that he would never grant the thirteenth pension and then the opposition line to say that the amount is too low? Just what kind of opposition to despair and despair is this? The difference is that, for Mr Mitsotakis, the potential for the benefit of many is probably not in his priorities, and for us, the priorities of the many are feasible and are carried out. But Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Brutsis and the insurance system, for pension levels, have called on us for the status of insured persons. So let us come to that too, since they think, for some reason I do not understand, that this is a privileged field for confrontation. The New Democracy and the PASOK made horizontal cuts, twelve the number, the years 2010-2014, a total of 45 billion. These cuts were horizontal, they were unfair, and they were just some of the things that were judged unconstitutional and, today, pensioners are upset or retrospectively retroactive. It was Mr. Brutsis and Mr. Koutromanis who signed these laws that were found unconstitutional and today they are causing this story with retrospective claims. Because cuts have a name and anti-constitutional laws also have a name. And he was Vice-President of the government, Mr. Venizelos, when Mr. Kutrumani's law was signed with the horizontal cuts that were considered unconstitutional. So it is hypocritical at least to move the finger two minutes ago in our own government for the retired and retrospective claims that its own anti-constitutional laws have produced and created. I have, however, heard the Qualified Opposition - and accidentally again, Mr Venizelos to incorporate this argument - on outstanding applications for retirement. And Mr Mitsotakis said that we owe - he says - to pensioners two hundred and fifty thousand unpaid pensions. In fact, Mr. Brutsis said the day before yesterday that we've troubled the registers and that as soon as he comes to the Ministry, he's gonna do the SAD. He threatened to do CSRs to the officials and those responsible, because - he says - we have unpaid two hundred and fifty thousand pensions. I have answered several times about the number of outstandings, I will say it again today. I'd answered soberly, he didn't want Mr. Mitsotakis to hear it. Let me say, obviously, the media also coordinated on this line. The once reliably "Dayday of Sunday" last Sunday had a front page on this very thing, about two hundred and fifty thousand unpaid pensions. I'll tell you what the numbers are, but before that I can tell you something else. Does Mr. Mitsotakis know how many unpaid pensions Mr. Brutsis left at the Ministry when he left? He left four hundred thousand. How many SADs do I have to do to Mr. Brutsi for the four hundred thousand unpaid pensions he left me? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] How many ESAs do I have to do to him for the four hundred thousand unpaid pensions, which he thinks today can come and shake the finger on unpaid pensions and obviously does not inform the president of his party, so that he does not say such failures? The unpaid pensions when we started were four hundred thousand. We paid more than eight hundred and fifty thousand this four-year period. Obviously, you realise that new ones are added every month. We paid over 5.5 billion. We've reduced the amount of delays by 75%. Yes, there are still unpaid pensions, but we have reduced the volume by 75% and continue to work in this direction. No matter how much Fake news they're tightening up with the paper titles, they won't throw us into this effort. The deficit that left us in the insurance funds when the gentlemen who are swinging the finger on the insurance today was EUR 1.1 billion, four hundred thousand were unpaid pensions and twelve successive cuts were made to pensioners in previous years. In early 2015, the debts of the insurance funds insured were 30 billion. I repeat it was 30 billion. These debts we go to regulate with the hundred and twenty instalments, which tell us it's an election trick. Their own wounds of the past are trying to close, their own mistakes are correcting, the burdens they loaded on the backs of the insured or the insured because of their inability to pay were found during the crisis. That is what we regulate with the hundred and twenty doses, those of their own 30 billion that we found in early 2015. However, I have heard Mitsotakis and Mr Brutsi also abdicate us on the situation in the labour market, on the wage situation, on the bad situation of workers and the unemployed and on our responsibility - he says - very much about this situation. Indeed, we are responsible, ladies and gentlemen. We are responsible for reducing unemployment by 8%, but not by 18%, as we would have liked to have reduced it. We are responsible for increasing the minimum wage by 11%, but not by 22%, as we should have done. We are responsible for abolishing the shameful underpaid wages, but for not making young people have EUR 751, as we should have done. We are responsible for protecting workers in contractors, but we have not adequately protected migrant land workers. We are responsible for reintroducing twelve collective labour agreements to twelve branches, but we have not restored twenty collective labour agreements to twenty branches. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We are responsible for reducing undeclared work, but we were unable to have a new child out there who, while working eight hours, is declared and paid for four hours. We are therefore responsible for walking half the way, which we have reversed half the social ruin we received, but we have reversed it. And for what we have done courageously, we will also talk about what we did not have time to do, give our report. But our report will give it to society. We will not give our reference to a Civic Opposition which does not even understand what we are talking about, because what I have said so far would never be in its priorities. We shall therefore give it to society. And for what we are left to do, we will ask for its support and legitimacy, because that is where we only draw legalization and that is where we give our credentials to society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, too. Mr. Kourakis, Vice-President of the Parliament and SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to refer to a part of Mrs Bakoyannis' speech in agreement and disagreement. Addressing Mrs Bakoyannis to Mrs Fotou, who previously from Mrs Bakoyannis' speech had developed the measures we have taken as government in four years to support people with disabilities, she said that the privilege of sensitivity is not yours, it is ours, it is others etc. I would agree at this point that, indeed at individual and personal level, the privilege of sensitivity cannot be claimed, as can the right to the defence of democracy and much more. But there I disagree that the designation in sensitivity, when it comes to political persons, is about politicians, programmes and things. In this sense, I would say that it is a matter of sensitivity when Mr Mitsotakis spoke of the social agenda of the New Democracy and the abolition of the eighth, which he said was overdue? Let me remind you that the MEPs of the New Democracy in the European Parliament voted to abolish the eight-hour ban on transport workers at European level. Is the position on unemployment sensitive to the political perception of the New Democracy? In other words, will he be identified with Mr Webber who has been opposed to the creation of a European unemployment fund? Is she also in agreement with a candidate MEP who has actually spoken about abolishing the unemployment subsidy, while for so many years their governments have raised it? Is it a sign of sensitivity that has been declared, that Mr Mitsotakis and his party opposes 'one to one' intake of workers while supporting 'five pensions - an intake', while our policy is a retirement - an intake? This morning on the radio one who belongs to the New Democracy area said he would like for every one of his departures to have two or three recruitments. When asked by the journalist, he said that "I disagree with the party on 'five to one', but I would like not only 'one to one' but 'one to three'. What Mr Mitsotakis said, 'five to one', has he considered the consequences of the so-called social state, namely education, hospitals, welfare, the 'Help at Home' programme and so many other things? This, Mrs. Bakoyannis, is it sensitive or something? I would like to comment on something that has given me a special impression, perhaps more because of my university expertise. Mr Mitsotakis stated in the autumn on "I do not have any illusions. There can be no society without inequality. This is contrary to human nature." Is poverty, discrimination and diversity contrary to human nature? Does he consider that social inequality is inherent in the nature of some people and others not? What kind of neo-davrinism is that? Where does this perception lead us? This means that we are divided into a huge gap in the causes of social inequality and obviously also in their treatment. It considers, in other words, that the classes in which people are located are above or by their nature, if you want, and that they will never change and that things are immovable, there are poor, rich, stupid, smart and so forth. At this point I would like to say humorously that no one is inherently good or bad, the conditions in which we meet are good or bad. For example, a criminal who saved me from a car accident is an angel from heaven, while a nobelist who fell on me on the subway is just stupid. Now I would like to say about the political sensitivity shown by left-wing governance, which sets out concrete and substantial measures for people with disabilities. Let us say that the situation in the disability certification centres, as Mrs Fotius said, has been normalized, particularly by moving to e-government procedures and by extending the list of diseases that lead to a permanent diagnosis of disability. It is perhaps the word 'perpetual' to you. You know what happened first? People with disabilities were forced to go every once and for all to testify to their disability, had they planted any hands, had they started to see better, more so. It is an entirely self-evident thing, which has now been done. Over forty new special schools were founded and over five hundred new branches of integration, and at the moment we are talking about four and a half thousand teachers for special treatment after ten years. One thing that I read recently and made a huge impression to me - I should know, of course - is that of the fourteen thousand school units we have, about seven and a half thousand have no accessibility ramps. And since we are all talking about accessibility, you should know that the right to access is not only ramps, it is also the right to culture, especially buses to transport disabled people, it is translated books in the language that can be understood and understood by people with problems of sight and deafness and many other things. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Show too little tolerance, Mr President. As far as benefits are concerned - because we have heard that we are not asking for allowances, we are asking for equal opportunities - you know, for many years now I do not like the term 'equal opportunities' at all. In fact, it reminds me of a cartoon where there is a tree underneath a snake, a monkey, a dog, a sheep and a fish into the glass and below it says: "They have the same chances to see at the same time what can come up faster in the tree." We are not talking about equal opportunities, so we are talking about equal opportunities that allows disabled people and different skills or particularities - if you like - to have access to social goods. I would like to say on this that the wheelchair movement should continue to claim - we do not claim that we have resolved all the issues - and with its struggle to press for the deepening of the positive discrimination policies that each state must develop. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Very little I shall speak, and I shall close, Mr President. Therefore, the vote of confidence in our Government is a vote for the real emancipation of the wheelchair movement. And finally, I would like to repeat something I said from this Step when we legislated the first direct measures of the Left Government on education in 2015. I also had invoked Aristotle, who had said that there is nothing more unequal than equal treatment of inequality. It's about what I said. We must, therefore, consolidate the culture of positive discrimination and public administration and all policies, be positively spectacular to those starting with unequal startings. That is the worthy framework on the Left, and that is what we are serving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, too. We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Union, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u298	Tell us the order for us to know, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u299	Let me tell you. Mr Kammenos, Mr Papapas, Mrs Tsarouha, Mrs Koundoura and so on will be present after Mr Georgiadis. That's the program.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, read - if you want - everyone by the end of the day, the whole list. Mr. Kotzias, too, sometime when he comes, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u301	If he is happy to come, but, as you have seen, Mr President, he has departed without wanting to have a dialogue, because Mr Dannelis has told him that he is giving him his position. So after Mrs. Kountoura, it is Mr. Fokas, Mr. Mantas, Mr. Drasakis, Mr. Panos Kammenos, Mr. Leventis, Mr. Theodorakis, Mr. Michaloliakos, Mrs. Gentimas, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Mitsotakis and the Prime Minister. That's the show. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u302	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a parliamentarian, I could not begin with an issue of topicality. I just visited the center, where I often daily am there because I am a MP and the indignation of the world by lawlessness and insecurity are really huge. Did we see people breaking everything yesterday, destroying property, defending - who? - a murderer who's been sentenced 11 times to life, even describing him as a political prisoner and defending him to get permission to go home. In fact, I find with grief that Athens has been delivered to blasphemers and hoodmen and you in the government, instead of closing them in, close their eyes. This is also a success of the government and Mr Tsipras, we must confess. At the same time, we have to deal with Turkey's escalation, the daily escalation of the provocativeness of the neighbours with violations, with threats, with statements that they will drill where they want without asking anyone. And we have called for a meeting of political leaders under the President of the Republic to discuss all these major issues relating to everyday life, to national defence, to foreign policy, to the economy, to discuss everything, for the last three years, our Prime Minister has denied it. And instead of discussing all these serious issues in this three-day debate, all that Mr Tsipras is interested in is his debate with Mr Mitsotakis. You are not the two of you, Mr. Tsipras, and if you want to debate, call on all the political leaders, sit on the table and discuss all the issues with them, do the accountability, charge responsibilities and so on. And the other night I confess I've heard a lot about villas, for lower, business relationships, for a variety of scandals, and so on. I have also heard a left Prime Minister against the elites using the benefits of elites, those who condemn, that is to say, using the means they give him and taking a vacation, even after fifteen days of a terrible hundred dead in Matti. I, if I were a Prime Minister, I would have lost my sleep, I wouldn't have wanted to go to a boat, light cigar and take a vacation. And the memorable thing isn't that he was on vacation on a boat, the memorable one is that it's a gift he hadn't declared. For we all know in this Chamber the Code of Conduct, that anything that comes as a gift above EUR 200 must be declared, otherwise it raises suspicions of funding. And we're talking about a gift, because he wasn't the deceased, and the family wasn't present on the ship. He gave it to him, he gave it to him, a gift of tens of thousands of euros. What we have not heard these days and what the Greek people have not heard is something from the reason that the Greek people have trusted us with their vote to represent him in the national Parliament, here. We have heard nothing at all about the substance of the policy itself. We have just witnessed a debate on a sidewalk - not even a café, because there are real and substantial discussions in the café too many times - of another fiasco, a sterile and low level of confrontation, an extreme and incomprehensible political polarisation - which is the only objective that is the sick bipartisanism - of a confrontation which is truly exterminated by the entire Greek people. It disgustingly disgusts the image he saw once again in the Greek Parliament, coconut battles, personal small ones. In fact, this is all about the political world. The Greek citizen has been unable to cope with his daily life, he cannot have his basic needs, he is actually fighting for his problems, he has been sacrificing for decades from the memorial and cuts. And what's he listening to? He opens the TV and sees the parties responsible for this downhill, for this robbery raid, fighting for lower, villas and buttons. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I am ashamed! I'm personally ashamed. The government has turned a motion of censure against one of its ministers in a vote of confidence, believing that an entire material discussion would favour it. And what did he actually want to do? To change the agenda, at least he believed. And she didn't come out because she didn't count on the revelations for the Eye or the revelations for the sharpest. And what happened? He left the Prime Minister running and went to Zappeion to bring the measures he had calculated to bring later, so that he could change the agenda again. And what would he give, so we could actually go? Pssychia. And to make it clear: While 1 euro is going to get a Greek citizen back from what has been stolen from him all these years from all the governments, it is clear that we are in favour of as a Union of Centres and we will support it. It is clear, however, that this is not a question of government benefits, but of the return of stolen and even stolen people who have been guarded by the Greek people and what you are returning to them is a maximum of tenth of what you have taken from him. So half of what the Prime Minister announced, such as the reduction of the solidarity levy, the reduction of duty-free, is about the 2020 budget. You're probably in the opposition then. Never in the history of the country - at least I don't remember it, I may be wrong - that is not how the buttons have been opened to share warm money, literally just a few days before a election campaign, with one single goal, disorientation and vote. This terrible slogan we have been saying for thirty years 'Shovelas, give it all away' has stopped. He didn't last 30 years. For decades the President of the Centro Association, Vassilis Leventis, and together the Centro Association, won the PASOK and the New Democracy for the Rusphés and Transaction Policies they have made and led the country to this crisis that we have been experiencing in the past decade. The SYRIZA Government can easily be described as the worthy follower of all the previous ones, and even as one of the worst governments since post-colonialism. You are so sure of your crash that you consciously choose communication and not the effective management of this crisis before abandoning your favorite chairs. In this downhill government was followed by the party of Officerial Response, because we have very simply watched two political leaders in a role of gladiators to defy political speech and disappoint the Greek citizen. We, as the Central Association, do not intend to follow you throughout this game, this anticipation you have brought to the Greek Parliament, and we will even suggest that you stop the cochairing because you are also insulting us, your colleagues, but above all the Greek society. None of you here is entitled to speak of moral advantage, because in practice you have all been tested and failed. No one is a guardian of morality and is not entitled to appear as such. All these measures, if we sum up them, are only a small fraction, as I said at the beginning, of what you have stolen, but also of the previous governments. We don't blame you alone. You have been exemplified by the previous ones. As you say, bring back the stolen ones. The stolen goods are not just from the previous ones. They're yours too. When you abolished the EASA, when you increased the solidarity levy, when you reduced the tax, when you increased the taxes and criminalised any attempt by a company to be sustainable and finally able to stay in the country and not to leave abroad, you created your own bloody surplus, which you blamed the previous governments for taking measures on bloody surpluses and never voted on them. Your Government has been able to make twenty-five pension cuts indirect this year. I'm not talking about the horizontal, so that I don't get wrong, because I was accused, and that's why in a panel, I was talking about pension cuts. Yes, of course, when you cut the ESS, when you increase tax, when you raise taxes, you reduce the pensioner's income, so you cut his pension. It's just things. More than twenty-five times your government has cut off pensions. Some of you return - and you are stolen, not only from the New Democracy and the PASOK. I'm filing a relevant table so that you can see it in detail and refresh your memory. [[At this point Mr Marios Georgiadis, Vice-President of Parliament, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] At the same time, during SYRIZA governance, infraction, crime and impunity have spread to the heights, creating a real sense of fear in the devastated social fabric. The neighbourhoods of Athens are under attack, Exarchia is unheard of for the citizens, even for the inhabitants themselves. And what are you doing? The government over others is curbing. This is the result of the adoption of the tolerance you have on your part, of the particular passive attitude you have as a mere observer, of the political leadership of the relevant Ministry, but also of the unacceptable legalisation of the Law of Friday, which has allowed every walnut to be released on the streets. Well, you didn't do it all wrong. Let's be honest. There's something you're doing right. You appoint. You're doing this right. You're making your party army. Eighty-four thousand five hundred new registered are your members in the SYRIZA executive register. So whatever moral advantage you have had as government to know that you have lost it long ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u303	What exactly do the eighty-four thousand do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u304	You haven't assigned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u305	Don't interrupt. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u306	I can answer, I'm fine. What exactly do the eighty-four thousand do? In every bill that comes you also create a new secretariat of three, five, with fifteen people each. We've seen them. We've been through this. We don't have to talk again. I can get them for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u307	Thirty thousand secretaries?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u308	I can get them for you. Eighty-four thousand five hundred contracts you have made either a fixed or an indefinite one. These are issues from the state budget. You don't like to hear them, but you'll hear them. You are now entering the same dash as the previous governments. You have the same responsibilities as the governments of the last decades, the PASOK and the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, this government's genuine and enshrined past does not allow anyone to trust you either for a municipality or for a community. And you'll see the result in the elections. Promises and lies were and are innumerable, words thick, works thin. You will no doubt get the Greek people's answer, which will be given soon and which will be the one that suits you. We call on the citizens to close their ears on your sirens and choose healthy forces, clean forces such as the Centro Association, a party that does not owe loans, which is not involved in scandals, which do not control the interests and which are the guarantee of cooperation and understanding, which will impose on everyone to account and will not allow any government to have - in quotes - an internal parliamentary junta of 'in the last forty-five plus-five guerrillas to vote everything before they even read it. I will conclude, Mr President, with an account - and I thank you for your tolerance - on what has been done by the Centroon Union over these four years in the Greek Parliament. We are one of the so-called'small parties'. We are a small party, we are at 3.5%, it is the first time that we have entered the Greek Parliament and we have made several efforts and we are the party with most of the proposals in Parliament's history from the so-called'small parties'. Nothing's heard. We have proposed a meeting of political leaders and a referendum on the scorpion. We have proposed constitutional changes that would be part of democracy, such as the constitutional introduction of mere analogy, the criminalisation of the ruse and many other things. We have proposed a rationalisation of the government - here is my answer to you, which has just been alarmed - about the eighty-four thousand appointments you have made - so that the productive and creative and conscientious civil servants can be rewarded and the knots filled with the public sector can be identified and removed at the expense of all the governments and their colleagues, as well as of the Greek society. We have proposed - and I shall end with this, Mr President - cuts only for high pensions. And when we say high pensions, we mean from 1,500 euros or more, not tempting the low-pensioners, to be able to breathe. We have tabled innovative proposals for education, foreign policy and armaments. We have a huge programme, but unfortunately all this is directed at those who are not listening. That is why we are asking the Greek people to strengthen our voice even more, because the Greeks can do it, and we as the Central Association can now guarantee that we will implement our commitments and that we have never deviated from what we believe. From the first day we entered the Greek Parliament and for years we have not changed attitudes to nothing. And because Mr. Tsipras likes poetry, I will dedicate him a verse to Kavaphis: 'Hellowing Alexandria you are losing.' Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u309	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three educational attendances from the 52nd Heraklion Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're on our way with the Interior Minister, Mr. Haritsi. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u310	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Members who have shown tolerance so that I can speak a little earlier, because the obligations of the Ministry of Interior these days are particularly increased because of the preparation of the elections. I would like you to allow me a little report. He is not present in the Chamber, but because Mr Georgiadis did so just now - he certainly has the right to make as acute criticisms to the Government, a Member of the Anti-Population Committee, is - it would be better not to use such terms as 'parliamentary junta'. We may be younger at age, but because we know very well what historical weight these terms have for our country, it would be well to avoid all the democratic wings of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I think with Mr Mitsotakis' motion of censure, he finally offers a valuable service in the country, as he gave the Prime Minister the opportunity to turn this proposal into a vote of confidence and finally to discuss the substance of political controversy, to talk about the facts, but also about the plan of every political power for the next day of the country and of the economy. To put ourselves in a few words about what really burns Greek citizens, what the party of Officerial Opposition in recent months - I would say - systematically avoids talking like 'the hell of the hamburger'. Because it is characteristic that since August 2018, since we have managed to get the country out of the memorandum, we have been watching from the New Democracy and the media system, which supports it, a huge campaign of disinformation and disorientation of public opinion. The objective is one: never discuss the real challenges, the programmes, the proposals, the positions of the parties for the economy, for employment and for rights, for Europe - since we have European elections before us - and for democracy. I was struck by an abstraction of Mr Mitsotakis' speech just the day before his opening speech in this three-day debate, which has not even been discussed in Parliament these days. He said, therefore, that Mr Mitsotakis - and I think that this is a very characteristic of the logic of the New Democracy and of the same - from the Minutes I read: 'We will also discuss the economy, but after discussing the major issue'. So the economy isn't the big one. The issues relating to the future of the Greek economy, the future of the Greek society is not the greatest for Mr. Mitsotakis. I think that this abhorrence - I do not know whether it has been lost or indeed deliberately by a scholar - of the speech made by Mr Mitsotakis, because, in my opinion, what has become clearer, more clearly than ever in the previous debate in Parliament, is that whoever has the mid-term superpower chooses to confront yellowism, while whoever has the political superpower chooses confrontation on programming terms. And now, then, it is time for the confrontation on programming terms and, above all, for the economy. I think the numbers here speak for themselves. From 2010 to 2014 you have taken measures EUR 63 billion and what have you achieved? You have plunged the economy, lost a 25% national income, and unemployment has been launched at 28%. In fact, despite all this unprecedented for a time of peace, you have never been able to catch up with the objectives which you yourself agreed with the lenders so that the country's credibility could be found in Nadir. This is in titles the legacy that the governments of 2010-2014 left in the Greek economy. Is there a comparison between these events and what has happened in the last four years, in the period 2015-2019, when this government, our own government, under extremely difficult, adverse conditions and with a very strong front against it, within and outside borders, has it managed to re-establish the economy on its feet, has it managed to restore the country's international credibility and regain access to markets? And most importantly, he managed to get the country out of the memorials and the suffocating comitology in which your own governments had put it in 2010. Why, of course, what should we compare? Comparing 25% recession in 2010-2014, with the growth that we have achieved over the last two years 2% and 2.5% and with all international organisations saying that this growth will be sustainable over the next two years? 28% of unemployment by the success of our government to reduce, in these difficult circumstances, ten percentage points in unemployment over the last three years? The exclusion from the markets with the successful exit to them lately, with historically low interest rates with which we are lending today? These are the generally comparable sizes - if you like - in the economic field and I think the numbers speak for themselves. But you will allow me to make a special reference, because, on economic issues, there are other issues, perhaps, which have taken a secondary place in the public debate and are related to the portfolio that I managed in the previous period in the Ministry of Economy and Development. So we have seen the country in a time of crisis in Europe in the last run-up to European funds, with all the major projects, such as roads, being fully frozen, which we have finally managed to implement, for all these failures of the previous period, to risk paying fines of several billion in the European Union, with overcompensations in the co-financed programmes of the ESDP, but also in the development law that surpassed the EUR 6 billion, when we were at the same time joining to the last day before the January 2015 elections - to these programmes, without any corresponding commitment of funds, thereby undermining the future of the Greek economy. That was the legacy of the previous governments he gave us, he inherited us to the Ministry of Economy. That is what we have managed to exalt in recent years and bring the country into Europe's first positions, at the top, to the possibility of absorbing European funds and, therefore, to make use of these to implement very important projects for the Greek economy, especially in the context of the crisis. At work and pensions, of course, the comparison is also extremely burdensome for you. The Minister for Labour told you in detail a little earlier on, both on pensions and on the defective insurance funds, which have been converted into surpluses, and on the reduction of the minimum wage and the establishment of the subordinate, which we have managed to reverse. These are successes of our Government, which, of course, you could not even dream of. And I think it would make no sense to expand, and colleagues in the past few days have already analysed successes in the health sector, for example with uninsured and primary health, which we financed in the past period, with the community centres, with the possibility of supporting vulnerable groups, with the nurseries that we have doubled almost the number of children who have entered free of charge through European programmes. And since I referred to nurseries, you will allow me to make a special and more detailed reference to the issues of local government, which are issues of the Ministry of the Interior, but we are only a few days before the self-government elections. So what happened to local government in the past eight, nine years? We had a policy of previous governments between 2010 and 2014, which led to a cut in public funding to the municipalities and regions by 60%. In fact, this figure amounts to 80% when it comes to the investment funds for the two degrees of self-government. That's what the previous governments did. We, for our part, have done something to increase this year, for the second consecutive year, the central self-resources and to create new financial programmes, such as the 'PHILDIMOS' programme, which, within less than a year, has financed municipalities throughout the country with more than EUR 2 billion for the implementation of important local infrastructure projects that had not been launched or left to their fate and which have been abandoned by the self-government authorities for many years. On the recruitment side, the previous governments, you, frozen the recruitments so that many municipalities can reach the limit of their ability to operate. We had municipalities that had neither a mechanic, nor a accountant, nor a legal person in their legal service, who could not actually draw up a budget, pass it through the municipal council and operate. So, in the face of this situation, this very difficult reality for the area of self-government, we proceeded to a large recruitment programme, with eight thousand five hundred hirings in the area of cleanliness in return services and with a three-year plan for the period 2019, 2020, 2021 recruitment of scientific staff in all the municipalities of the country with particular attention to the small mountain and island municipalities. It has also been attempted by you, by the forces of today's Opposition in 2010-2014, to assign important functions of self-government to contractors, when you imposed a flexible employment scheme for tens of thousands of contractors in the field of self-government. We have reversed this trend of privatisation, ensuring the public character of local government services and saving money for citizens. We gradually lift all the injustices that have occurred in the area of self-government with regard to OTA workers and for many of them Mr. Mitsotakis, the current Chief of Officerial Reconciliation, has personal responsibility until then as Minister of Administrative Reconstruction in 2014. I am referring to school guards, I am referring to municipal police officers, namely to categories of workers that are restored by our Government, following the disastrous policy of 2010-2014. And of course, we didn't just stop there. We have permanently established a very important social institution, the "Help at Home" for municipalities throughout Greece, which had not been done for twenty years and the workers in it were hostage status, and in the next week, the Prime Minister will announce important support measures for other categories of workers in government, for example the multitude of school cleaners. Ladies and gentlemen, we are only a few days before the European elections and the self-government elections, which are the first election campaign to take place in our country, after almost four years, because of course this government has to show, among others, its ability to remain in the government of the country more than any other government in the time of the crisis. These elections will play a decisive role in the country's path in the next period, as we are in a very critical, historic, metachim. Are we going to continue and consolidate a path of stable and sustainable development and the restoration of social cohesion, or are we going to return to outdated logic represented by the New Democracy, which has unfortunately led us to bankruptcy and barbarity of the memorials? A few days ago, three days ago, on 7 May, we lived a historic moment, because for the first time after nearly a decade of memorial and limited sovereignty, a Greek government, the SYRIZA government, proceeded with the establishment of interventions with a very significant extent and depth, which touch many social groups affected by the crisis, but also stimulates the development prospects of the Greek economy. Because, of course, in the era of fast news and yellowism, the truth is that with this government we are ending with austerity. The truth, too, is that we are going to the stage of real development, real development, for the majority of society. And this truth cannot be concealed, despite the rabies attempt by the New Democracy to throw the ball into the stands, strugglingly trying to change the agenda, drawing from the hair themes and making use of the yellowism and the journalism of the keyhole. The truth is not hidden, because the truth is about the lives of millions of our fellow citizens. It is about restoring injustices for which the opposition is responsible. Because we can now, on the basis of a concrete plan, legislate in advance on the basis of measures of a permanent nature, depending on the possibilities of the Greek economy. And, of course, this historic package announced by the Prime Minister just three days ago is not lightning, nor is it any election trick. It follows the country's exit from the memorials in the summer of 2018, the pension cut, the adherence to antenna of the Prime Minister's announcements at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition in September 2018, now all these announcements, all these proposals have become the law of the state. Furthermore - and this, in my opinion, is very politically important - the concrete move of the communication of measures to be implemented next week and legislation is also a very important signal for the whole of Europe. A signal that shows, a few days before the European elections, that in Greece the left government can prove that austerity, neoliberal dogmatism and recession are not a one-way path for Greece and Europe. An alternative path of sustainable development with social justice is not only beginning to happen, but it is also the only way to regain the explosive rise of the extreme right, but also to address the major geopolitical, development and environmental challenges of our time. In conclusion, I think that the Qualified Opposition must give a clear answer to the Greek people. Do you agree with these measures of relief, restoration of injustices and development dynamics announced by the Prime Minister or disagree? Because only a week ago, the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Mitsotakis, said that there is no possibility for the 15th pension. Do you agree with Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Webber, who has had little time after the announcement of the measures to condemn this initiative of the Government and personally attack the Greek Prime Minister, or do you think that we stole your programme?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u311	With the Savvidis, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u312	All right, back the ball on the platform. Permanent tactics will be judged by the Greek people. However, you cannot at the same time say that these measures are an election and at the same time say that we stole your programme. It can't happen both at the same time. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] So you have a clear answer, because in a few days' time we are going to elections, and I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that despite this disorientation effort, despite the attempt by the Qualified Opposition to throw the ball into the carpet, despite the very great effort not to discuss the arguments that concern the Greek society, that the Greek people and the next European elections will give victory to the forces of SYRIZA and the Progressive Alliance, precisely because things have changed in Greece and Europe. Because Greece and Europe cannot go back to the sinful times of neoliberal dogmatism. We, in the face of all this disorientation effort, will continue to fight together with the world to ensure a present and future that is worthy of Greek citizens who have suffered so many years because of precisely these policies. Because we have complete faith in the criterion and the instincts of the Greek people that will ultimately justify this very great effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u313	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and run, eight students of university institutions of America. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Georgiadis, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u316	I want to clarify why the Minister referred to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u317	Clearance of what has been said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u318	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u319	You're not allowed, you're also Vice President. Come on, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u320	Not for one minute, Mr President, thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u321	I don't give time, here's the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u322	Mr President, Minister, I should like to make the point because it is worth listening to the Chamber. In view of the fact that I am very careful in my words, I said: 'in an introductory parliamentary junta'. You want a lot of introductory stuff? Many introductorys, because the practice of voting for everything, without the broadest consensus with a hundred forty-five plus some willing, is not democratic, and I do not think in any case that any party of the democratic arch can be likened to the junta. That is why I said 'parliamentary junta' in introductory terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Georgiadis, that wasn't a clarification, it was a placement. Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u324	Does he want to be deleted from the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u325	Do you want to delete, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u326	No, I made an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u327	Here, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a very interesting debate is taking place these days. I will concentrate my speech on the subject on which the New Democracy has tabled the motion of censure and yesterday's suggestions by the Prime Minister and Mr Mitsotakis. The conclusion that comes out of me is, right now, SYRIZA has two tires, Mr. Polakis and Mr. Tsipras. They talked about the murder of characters. I'll talk about character suicides. People have no measure and commit themselves to their own characters. We're talking about a left advantage, about a left moral, which we're talking about on a supermultiple yacht. The Prime Minister is a chameleon of politics! The characteristics of the nice animal you all know. Depending on the location he is changing color, his eyes look uncontrolled and independently right and left - theoretically speaking - quickly, he has a rapidly evicted language and grabs his food. All this, if we combine it with a little poetic - poetic permission - we are told by the Prime Minister, who is entitled to take the Nobel of political deportation, a political deception. He seemed smiling and relieved with a hundred dead people on his back. He seemed a stranger, but he did not cease to be a busy man, because the next day we had the fine speech in Ithaca. So his mind was working on speeches: Progressive alliance, 'green dream', which I say on the green left. I don't know, but this must have thought about everything on the wardrobe.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u329	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u330	The interest of the seaman is as follows. Very good reporters decoded Mr. Tsipras's book on the seaman, which I think was his - I don't think it was Mrs. Panagopoulos's specific book - entitled "Inspection Elements", by French Stéphane Osmont, ultra left book, speaks of the Red Brigades and the Action Teams of Prima Linea. Did he resist the wardrobe? I don't know. Did the Prime Minister cry, reading the book in the chamber? In other words, he spoke and thought about the commonwealth, about the couple's relations - which we read from journalists - how did they start from the commonwealths and end up in the armed struggles on the streets, the integration into the left organizations, which he stopped and continued all of this on the deck? He shows me a political chameleon, who's dangerous. Of course I won't give a vote of confidence. Crime isn't holidays, crime is hiding. If he didn't hide them, and as he said, he has the right to go on vacation, to go on this year. We challenge him from this Step, I personally challenge him to go on a holiday this year. It's not bad. He made it one, to do it again for the upholding of his names. There is no such thing as this popular child of Kipseli, which has covered Mr Polakis in his inappropriate behaviour against Mr Kymbropoulou, a fellow human being. I'm not saying he was a politician, I don't want to put this feature or his political opponent or candidate MP with the New Democracy. But you can't keep bailing against capital, elites, all these bad guys, you and we are across the sidewalk and in history, and from different political matrices, and you can take a vacation in the opposite uterus and not only take a vacation, but also seem to be making a letter to the International Olympic Committee to accept Ms Panagopoulos, while she was a year ago a Special Counselor of the Prime Minister's Office and then became an ambassador on a diplomatic passport. Ms. Panagopoulos has money. You're in position, he didn't. You gave it to her. I don't know if anything weird happened in the transaction. Soap opera, we live. I'm going fast to Mr. Polakis. He said he was dangerous for our own democracy and the democracy of the people's needs. Mr Polakis, democracy, if you do not know, is one, there is no different democracy for you and no one else, and stop being merciless, as is your Prime Minister. You talked about sunset, yoghurt, about a pearl that's bad. I will say that as you did with Mr. Tsipras, the two of you, Mr. Stathakis, to be elected to Chania, or he will have to learn to burn down like a perch, or he will have to put himself in Parliament forth as a furious goat if he gets a cross. Inappropriate for me and unfair collegiate. I have the right to have my opinion. I have no special sympathy for Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u331	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u332	Goddamn it! Everyone's housewives. "When will you understand what human and proper behavior means?" he said to Mr. Mitsotakis. An apology didn't ask the hundreds for a dead man. He's talking about humanity and behavior to Mr. Mitsotakis. She said Mrs. Anagnostopoulou before about the lust of decency she left. The lust of decency, Mr. Polakis, has gone when you've been sued to the dead. You sued the dead! Are you talking on the left about the lust of decency with people we've buried and dragged them to court? "I sacrifice the truth for the sake of a hypocritical elegance": You represent the Greece of a few, those who moan for a rhyme. 'We are two different worlds' - these are Mr Polakis' words -'so you are disturbing with me, you are also disturbing with SYRIZA'. So who's SYRIZA? Mr. Paulakis or Mr. Tsipras? I've said there's a breakthrough. A vote of confidence is not given. The attitude of Mr. Tsipras to Mr. Kymbouropoulos, to call him "glastra", one of our fellow men, anyone, as a being who has no will, is wandering. Inappropriate to Mr. Tsipras, worse than Mr. Polakis. We don't give a vote of confidence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Politics - Prespecies. Here's my dear colleague, Mr. Kotzias. We cannot give a vote of confidence in this government. We talked about the press. Prespes is a bad deal. He had locked us in the last article handshakes, irrevocably and gave language, identity and name to those who didn't. When a conversation is taking place with SYRIZA colleagues, they tell me: “Yes, we gave something we didn’t have. We were talking Macedonian? We speak English in Macedonia. So we gave something we didn't have, the Macedonian language." Now that they come and ask for Macedonian language, ethnicity and identity with a Macedonian minority and take us to the Court of Human Rights and we will be dragged and possibly won, because they will have supporters of many of you, what will Greece do with what we are going to live in here? Turkey. It's hard. They fly unmanned and record our islands, Chios, Mytilini, two days all the time. One unmanned man, we haven't shot. Let's shoot an unmanned one. They map military facilities every day. Today the Turks get out and advertise it and do google Turkish and make foreign policy through Turkish google maps. We don't care about foreign policy. It's a piece of it. But mapping unmanned military facilities and looking at them? We cannot give a vote of confidence in this government because it has shown that the General Secretariat of Civil Protection in my question to parliamentary control is not ready this year to face fires, and it will be later and the plan will be seen and implemented by 2020. I'm beating, but in 2019, if something happens, what are we going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u333	Finish, Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u334	How will we give this government a vote of confidence? Thank you very much for listening. I hope that in the elections the people will do the right thing and that everyone will vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u335	So we shall proceed as follows. The former Minister, Mr. Nikolaos Kotzias, will now take the floor immediately after Mrs. Tsarouha, then the Minister, Mr. Papapas, and then proceed in line: Mrs. Kountoura, Mr. Fokas, Parliamentary Representative Mr. Mantas, and close this unity, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Drasakis, and start with the Heads of the parties, with the intervention of Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Echolidis Tsakalotou. Mr. Kotzia, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. Remember that I am not asking for the floor on staff, when there are multiple references to me and to my expense, and so I am obliged to respond to certain issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u337	You'll have a little tolerance, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u338	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say what the problem is in terms of democracy in the country. The problem is that there are powers - and we have heard them in this House these days too - which have confused the arguments with the insults and only give designations. They seek to degrade their opponent's personality. They seek the public space not to dominate democratic dialogue, social consensus and the culture of dialogue, but to dominate the envy and slander. This can lead to deep crisis in relations between large sections of the population and democracy, because the measure has been lost and some operate on methods outside democracy. Some people do not understand the difference between democratic confrontation, confrontation of ideas and policies with arrogance and blackmail. This is a difference between the Left and others - I am not saying all - powers concerning the culture of democracy, values and principles. This is a problem of democracy. So I will tell you four examples. Example One: The Prespecies Agreement has come. How was the Prespecies Agreement described? Someone today said she doesn't think she's good, that she's tough, backward, etc. This is a conversation. But it was characterized by treason. "Trust" was accompanied by the fact that the archbishop, the architect of treason, "takes them". Do you know what that means? It means a public call for the execution of the traitor, because if he is a traitor and he gets caught, all of us who are patriots and I ourselves have to execute him. You can't stand it. This is the quality of public speech. In this, then, the quality of public speech has come to something amazing. A Member of Parliament came and put thirteen e-mails in agreement with each other with this argument. To avoid discovering them, Kotzias destroyed the Ministry's server. Convicted! Object Two: Along with this he destroyed the diplomats' e-mails, so they wouldn't get caught. Three: But I'm a dude and I have friends diplomats, I got them off the server, and I saved them. I'm also getting from the House to see these e-mails and what do I see? It is e-mail from a server that I didn't know him - SBC GLOBAL COM - and is addressed to an e-mail "hotmail.com". I mean, it's a conversation that doesn't pass through the Ministry's server, and so I either destroyed him, or I didn't destroy the documents or anything else, I didn't have access. But why does the lie say so? In my opinion, he's doing it to hide how he found it. What's so special about these two servers? They're American servers, and you don't go easy on American servers, because they're hitting bells! I asked the experts. We have two good Departments of Information and Networks at the University of Piraeus. What did they say? They told me that only two can do this, or the SWR hacker or Russian secret services, go to Chinese. So here either we have forged texts or we have been intercepted - I don't know, I say what experts say - with such things. By the way, because the suspect gang said it sent him - it says - this ambassador Kotzias to see the Chinese, on the day that he was supposed to be this sms, if it is true or not, there was a meeting of the Directorate of European Affairs with the Chinese delegation headed by Deputy Minister for European Affairs. Here's the proof. Second example of the type of public debate, where we are moving cards and lying, is this: four years ago, the gentlemen of the New Democracy led by Mr Varvitsiotis and some Members said that I blackmailed the Prime Minister to make my son-in-law Deputy Governor of the Bank of Greece. Mr. Mitsotakis came in and complained that the government was the degree of affinity that counts more than the evaluation and brought as an example Theodoros Mitrakos who became the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Greece and was the son-in-law of Nikos Kotzias. I told him, "Get the marriage certificate, Mr. Mitsotakis, my daughter is single. Bring proof that you know this guy who hasn't met him, neither have I ever met in our lives, to prove after the blackmail." I am waiting, friends of the New Democracy, for four years of the "excuse" from public slander against my family! And Mr. Mitsotakis comes out and complains! Four years he didn't dare apologise, and he knows very well that the affinity he has shown is false, so I would, for a lie, make any blackmail in my life! I submit them for the Minutes these beautiful tweets by Mr Mitsotakis and all these misery, so that we don't forget them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kotzias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let us now refer to the last issue - and let me go a little further - of the Prespecies. I don't want to analyse why it's a deal that's useful for the country. I do not understand why you are concerned that Turkey has lost control and influence in northern Macedonia. I don't understand if you'd rather be in her bite or not. Tell us what you want for the country once! I say only this: in things that some people don't know - and that is about my friends in KINAL - they shouldn't talk. So Mrs. Gennamata says that we made secret diplomacy and that we have national defeats in the Prespes. So I'm going to read you a telegram - and I've got a lot more - that I've been kind enough not to use until now, but insistence after so many months is forcing me. Says the Ambassador of Greece and the negotiator, Mr. Zacharakis, in his telegram exclusively for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the secret talks - I spoke with all the officials present, all the ministers also know with four ministerial councils, come and see what they did - "In the wake of the private conversation I told the Minister that I had previously met with the Deputy Minister Rosakis..." - State Secretary for Foreign Affairs was Mr. Rosakis - "...who understood, was not aware of the latest developments and the Vance moves and which I escaped from..." - Mr. Rosakis the service agent - "to inform, according to the Minister's instructions. Mr Pangalos confirmed to me... because I asked him again in writing - '...these directives, stressing that the Prime Minister had asked him to keep an absolute secrecy on the matter, which should only be known by the Prime Minister, the Minister and the signatory.' Three and all! And these guys who negotiated, in which their Foreign Ministers had no right to know what it was about, blame this government for secret talks! I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kotzias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They then agreed - and I will give it all here - on the following terms: firstly, to make the agreement without changing the constitutional name. Since 1996 both parties of the time have agreed to reach an agreement without changing the constitutional name. Secondly, the erga omnes only relates to telegram 5-7-1996 - its international use. And you have accepted since that he will have another name for the international use that you claimed to be an erga omnes for international use and "Macedonia's Republic", as it existed, "netta steak" for the interior! And I ask: When you accept the name 'netta thought' to be called 'Macedonia', what would the national of that country and his nationality be called? What's his name? Hypocrites that you have accepted the general, and are you pretending to be disturbed that we had to accept what you agreed to since 1977? These are here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u339	Who has agreed this since 1977, Mr Kotzia?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Kotzia, don't answer and go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u341	Negotiations in the internal...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u342	What you're saying is...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u343	What am I supposed to do about you being improper?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u344	What you're complaining about, you did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u345	Oh, no! Here it is! Mr. Voridis, it is certain that you were not informed of the negotiation at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u346	Do you know the concept of the deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u347	Today is another kind of meeting. We are not voting for the Prespecies Agreement. Minister, please fill in ten minutes and I am not prepared to remove the Rules of Procedure, so that you may speak in equidae! So I'm fixing time, I'm putting you another three minutes and I'm asking you to close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u348	Mr President, you always have a sensitivity to my time. Looks like...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u349	I personally have no sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u350	He says here, for example: 'I would like to point out that the Greek Government supports the general use of any agreed international name, i.e. use against all third parties, Erga omnes, and in each case international presence.' Not erga omnes on the inside. I can read you dozens of messages of this kind here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Because I don't have time, I'm interested in something else. I have something interesting. Mr Vassilis says, for example, in the negotiation: "You should not connect the name change to the identification of your identity. This is the directive I have from the government," he tells the FYROMites. Another your international name and another name in your identity. It was in the negotiations. You should also have made a compromise, because these are the negotiations for positions. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kotzias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is where I want to say something interesting and last.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u351	You're making a lot of papers!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u352	Yeah. Are they bothering you? Most of these papers Mr. Zacharakis made them in a book in Lebanon. All of it! Your MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u353	Tell that to Mr. Kammenos. Have you forgotten?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u354	Your MEP has taken them out in a book in Lebanon. Go and read once, Mr. Stamatis. It's not enough Mr. Samaras taught you, you need to learn real things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u355	Yeah, what you know!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u356	I'm coming to the last one now. I read and keep your cool. With regard to the procedure for implementing the solution, the one we agreed, which was another international name and the 'Republic of Macedonia' internally, and, in order to facilitate the parties, the possibility has been discussed - here I am sure - for the solution to appear as the Secretary-General's initiative in the form of a recommendation to the Security Council. In other words, we make a bad deal, we accept the residence of the name 'Macedonia' for their homes, we do not take it politically, we understand that we do not take it politically, and there are too many such texts, and we say to Vance, 'Vance, you can pass it by the Security Council, the committee can take it and say that they are third-party decisions and I will implement them? However, we will tell the Security Council that for this proposal, which we will not know, we will not object, because it is understood that such a scenario is in our intentions." That's a secret diplomacy. In the ear of the UN Secretary-General, for him and us to make astonished ones, see what the UN Secretary-General has brought and robbed us! So be clear. The Greek foreign policy today, four and a half years later, is basically upgraded and thanks to this foreign policy, we do not have pro-Turkish European Union, we do not have philosophers Americans, we do not have Chinese philosophers. Thanks to this foreign policy, the Balkan people are with us, the country has upgraded and has alliances. These didn't come out of the divine. God saw Greece one day, he saw Kojia or Karugalo and he liked us. That's what happened with hard work. Stop believing in metaphysical phenomena. The fact that the Americans, the Europeans, the Chinese are today with the Greek positions for the first time - and, for the first time, I would say, during the junta - is the task of this government, and it makes you sad. What can we do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u357	Mrs Collia-Charuha will now speak and then Minister Pappas will speak. Mrs. Charuha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u358	Jesus, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, today's only debate is, unfortunately, the superficial and tiny way in which the two major parties, New Democracy and SYRIZA operate today. The Independent Greeks alone, just us and Panos Kammenos, seem to have the elementary sensitivity and responsibility towards the country and the Greek people, because only we stress the criticality of the moments and call for national unity and not for senseless conflicts. Ladies and gentlemen, especially now that Turkey has reached the maximum degree of provocation towards the national sovereignty of Greece and Cyprus and has offend all concepts of international law and peaceful coexistence, the circumstances require the greatest seriousness and unity of our people. But you are the ones who lure the Greek people into a small political controversy, which only works out the political scene. I will not go much into Mr Polakis' controversial post against Mr Kymbouropoulos. Mr. Kyburopoulos is really a special fellow citizen of ours and has proved that there is no obstacle to those who are trying. It goes without saying, however, that, like all those who are on a similar path of struggle and dignity, they deserve maximum respect and support. That is why the micro-political and party management of the issue is a condemnable act in itself. Mr. Paulakis could be more careful. However, the same applies to New Democracy, which is an extreme neoliberal party, at one time, condemning all positive provisions in favour of our fellow citizens, but, on the other hand, calls for special treatment not to be given to me for its candidates who belong to this category. Unfortunately, this political paranoia has resulted in the great historical fact that many of us have once served. It is and is brought to the vote, without any responsibility to deal with the issues it is dealing with depending on who it speaks about. So he did in the case of the Prespecies Agreement, which applauded German-selected friend Mitsotakis, Mr Weber, when he exulted the Prespecies Agreement, but when it was time for Mr Weber's words to be published in various publications, he censured them, so that it would not become a mistake to its voters. But also the conversion of Mr Polakis and Mr Kymbouropoulos into a vote of confidence in the government, I believe, is an impeccable political acronym. The Prime Minister, who has chosen it, does not seem to realize that political life and Parliament are not just a arena where ideas, directions with manipulations and tactics conflict, but are the highest example of ethos and action for the citizens of our country. Citizens here take the most decisive example of how they will act in their lives, but we too here in this House. And the example you give them, Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis, is not good at all. Of course, a government and an opposition based on apostates is completely inappropriate to speak of morality and ask for confidence. The same point is for the current government to ask for the confidence of the responsible representatives of the Greek people, the same people, who did not ask about the Prespecies Agreement, on the national big issue of the granting of the name "Macedonia" to the small state of Skopje. So the Independent Greeks are clear: we will not support the government and give it any vote of confidence. It is a matter of moral, national and political seriousness and responsibility. In no case can this position, however, be interpreted as support for the New Democracy motion of censure, because it is quite clear that the motion of censure is another hopeful and politically insulting trick, which jeopardises the country's course for an issue that could certainly have been solved between Mr Polakis and Mr Kymbouropoulos, perhaps at a press conference. Ladies and gentlemen, the Independent Greeks, on the other hand, welcome the economic alleviations announced by the government to our fellow citizens, because they are another confirmation and reward of the central choice that we made in 2015 for a two-party co-government of different ideologies. We have put our backs on a co-operation government, because above all we have proposed the national interest and interest of the Greeks. The exit from the memorials, which every day is clearer, the reliance on our fellow citizens, who have been tortured for some ten years, would never become a reality, if we, the Independent Greeks, did not "pay back" to a national strategy and if Panos Kammenos did not give the country the direction he had to follow, to come out of the crisis. We helped our government partner to overcome his ideas, to understand that the future of Greece lies in a strong alliance with the countries of the Mediterranean and the maritime routes. We opened diplomatic paths and proved that it is true the mineral wealth of Greece, for which we were being mocked a few years ago by those who wanted to sell it. And we pushed and led towards the foundation of the most important, perhaps, energy axis on the planet, again making Greece a central pole of the global geopolitical scene. This upgraded geopolitical importance of our country has ensured these strategic partners so that we can achieve better trading conditions and reduce the requirements of the lenders that others have signed to us. These developments have allowed us to have the possibility today as a country to return to the Greek people some of the wealth that has been voluntarily removed over the past decades and years and to ensure pensions, minimum wages, gifts and allowances, workers' rights. All of this is certain that in the books of the history of the future they will be written with the name "Panos Kammenos". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We do not forget, however, the act of apostasy which has dissolved our parliamentary group, so that we can continue with more weapons of parliament and bring to light the dark background - I am finishing, Mr President - the Prespecies Agreement and the Visa Agreement. Be sure that the Greek people will not forget it, because it sees and understands. Be sure, as we are, that, when the moment comes, he will remember what that political party has acted honestly to his advantage and what those who have not respected him at all and, despite the ruthless war against us, will give us the strength to continue with our work. The Greek people must decide with elections about a new government, representing them with a new morality and new foundations. At the moment, the question is unity, because only with unity and the common national line are we defending our homeland and this is now our greatest priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u359	The Minister has the floor, Mr Pappas, and then Mrs Kundura. Here, Mr Pappa, you have the floor for 15 minutes. You're disciplined.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u360	Always, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u361	Well, "always" is now being played, but anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u362	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that a systematic effort is being made for our people to forget what has happened in the recent political and economic history of the country, to forget what has happened over the past weeks and, of course, not to think and judge what they want and what each political power is planning. However, our people do not forget that the government has taken the country into suffocation, with unemployment at 27%, without closed assessments, without the Memorandums, without regulated debt and managed, inter alia, to reverse the plan of 'parentism', to give dividends at the end of '16, '17' and '18', to get out of the memorandums, to borrow at historically low rates, to create four hundred thousands of jobs, to have the insurance system, to settle the TV scene, to build a social state, to return the retroactive wages to special wages, to reduce HPAI, to reduce insurance contributions, to increase the minimum wage, to abolish the underprivileged wage, to make a record of investments in the last few years, to reduce VAT on focus, on current and food, to complete the tenth pension, to complete the many high-scale projects and large-scale projects. These are the results of our policy. That's what people recognize. That's what they all see. What does Opposition see? Destruction. We were obviously not devastated, apart from one, the destruction of the account of Officer Response, which was triumphed by denial. And that's why he's responding with mud, voices, and lies. It makes the choice to turn the Civic Opposition into a modern EPE, with post-election rhetoric and politics and hate show. They came to say seriously that the latest measures were, he says, a distraction to change the public debate from the Prime Minister's holiday. Honestly, I personally didn't believe when I saw it somewhere written in one of the well-known media, that this would become a official New Democracy policy. People listen to us and judge us. That is to say, the Qualified Opposition says that, because the photographs in question were taken, the government brought the thirteenth pension, reduced VAT and took the other positive measures. I think it is a position that cannot stand public criticism. It had a negative moment in the day before yesterday, and I'm talking about the innocence of the Chief of Police Response to the Prime Minister's father. I think it is an attack which he has regretted, and I think he has every possibility and obligation tonight to revive, to withdraw, in the light of and the statement by the Prime Minister and the uncertain reality that this construction is a right-wing construction, unless this strategic option is here to remain for Civic Anti-Population, the construction of false news until our people go to the poll. The New Democracy will do everything in its power not to talk about the economy and society, for two main reasons: I already mentioned the first one. The Qualified Opposition has become a modern Nostradamus of politics and the economy. It provides for disasters, which are not coming. He said he wouldn't close the first evaluation. He closed in June of 16. He said he'd activate the cutter. In April of '17 this debate is over. The distribution of the social dividend given in '16 and voted'residents' is unilateral. He said the second evaluation would not be closed. He closed in June of '17. He said the third evaluation would not be closed. He closed in January of 18. The same scenarios were moved for the fourth assessment. She also closed in June of '18 and the meetings and phones went for free in Brussels and Berlin. Now, after nothing came out, the debate on debt began, which was also settled by the decision of June 18 at the Eurogroup. Then came the story about the fourth memorandum, the informal, as they said until August when we came out of the memorandum. And in order to support this rhetoric about an informal memorandum, they invoked the reduction in pensions, which were not cut. The twin cuts, both pensions and duty-free, are the foundation of the New Democracy programme, absolutely and undeniably. It is not too far away when the Chief of Officer's Representation explained that duty-free will of course be reduced, but at a lower rate of tax at 9%. So we promise you, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Representation, that our people will not forget them. There is one second reason New Democracy does not want us to talk about the economy. It is the strategic option not to move one inch of the economic and social policies it has implemented as a government by the end of 2014. Mr. Mitsotakis clearly told us that the third pension cannot be given, that it is populism, that the insurance must go to the Pinochet model. In other words, we are talking about the abolition of supplementary pensions. If one sees and our retired people do, they will recur. These things cannot be discussed by the New Democracy. Let us read what the relativelyink tank that prefer these solutions, which are adjacent to the associations of insurance companies, which say that from this insurance reform they will increase their turnover from 2 to 5 billion a year. Where's that money coming from? Who will guarantee the funds? Nobody. We will return from the "all strongest" of EVKA to the "everyone alone and the one who saves himself", which is of Pinochet insurance. The eighth hour, of course, is over, the collective negotiations on the Left's idealism. And, of course, alas, not to overhear the agreement with the institutions again? Gerovali was shown to reach 1 to 1 in the public sector negotiation and New Democracy insists on 1 to 5. People are listening. The low-income world also hears us, the people who enjoy public services in critical areas, such as education, health, and even fire safety, even national security, and can draw its conclusions. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say a few words on the issues of the Ministry of Digital Policy. This morning, we signed the Convention on the great work of electronic document handling in the public sector. It is a project which, in the IOB study, saves 380m euros a year. I'm saying that to understand the sizes. We're talking about two rental benefits. This is a philosophy: exploiting new technologies, optimising processes and exploiting the workforce. There is also the other philosophy that has been applied. It is the philosophy of redundancies, cuts, of depreciation of public services. It is a philosophy and policy from which the New Democracy has not fallen apart. Fifteen thousand redundancies were signed, which were not done, because the political change took place. So we move with this huge, great project, which will interconnect twenty-one thousand Greek public bodies and deliver hundreds of fifty thousand digital remote signatures to public officials. There was, of course, a reform in the television scenery. And here, let me say this: it is not just that the ERT has reopened. It is also the fact that ERT became autonomous of the private provider of the digital signal. It has its own network and it can carry its signal autonomously and not only do it self-evidently for a public broadcaster, but also save over EUR 1.5 million a year. Of course, television licences have also been granted. The State has obtained income that it did not obtain under the previous circumstances, let me say. 175 million will be paid for permits. We received 150 million from taxes, which had been legislated and their collection with last-minute amendments moved just before the basilopita. We received EUR 150 million from advertising tax and frequency charges. This money, some people chose not to collect it. And apparently there, some phones got up. And they remembered some interests to target me personally. What issue have they targeted me for? On the question of television licences, where all the political system, the once mighty, has its nest and where that government has shown that it does not hesitate to defend the public interest, even if it costs and causes severe conflicts with very specific interests. From this story, however, I also think that the people have understood this: the problem of Officerial Opposition is not the Pope, Paulakis, Durus or the other one of the Minister who is every so targeted. Their problem is Alexis Tsipras and his prime minister. Because they see that things change both in society and in the economy, they react spasmically. Our people must be - I would say - ready to really hear monsters in the last fifteen days until the European elections. I think, however, that he is prepared to listen to these monsters and evaluate them exactly as he needs them and put them in a second shot and insist on all reasonable talk about big and important. Also, five hundred thousand of our fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, did not have access to the Greek television product. I was in areas where there were too much Macedonists and they were bailing against us and saying that we are the traitors because we brought the Prespecies Agreement. And their political staff - within many introductorys - "Macedonian" thought he had done his debt, leaving our fellow citizens in sensitive national areas without access to the Greek television product. And of course, when I made this tour, I had the opportunity to discuss with people who disagreed with the Prespecies Agreement and had positions in local government. But we sat together and organized how our citizens would finally have the opportunity to watch Greek television. Audiovisual industry: and what we did not hear when we started trying to strengthen audiovisual productions. Here, let me say that we have indeed moved very quickly and since the vote on the bill, which is about a year ago, at the moment, 50 audiovisual productions are being financed and strengthened, having created six and a half thousand jobs and having made a decisive contribution to the country's advertising abroad. I do not want to go back to the Minutes and remember - because we will all be hurt - what has been said by this step for this initiative, nor will I, of course, go to the nonsense that has been launched against director Costas Gavras. However, I think there should be a measure in the public debate at some point. I shall refer for half a minute to the Hellenic Space Organisation. And that's where we were slain. That's where we had a lot more jokes. Don't laugh, Mr. Mada. That's where he was so laughing. Now, I don't see anyone laughing. With "Hellas Sat 3", "Hellas Sat 4" in the Greek orbital position, with a microprocessor construction program with the European Space Service and with the last agreement with NASA, which our country will become one of the minimums that will have sent a vehicle to the moon, I see no one laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u363	Now we're laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u364	Yeah, now we're laughing. We are probably smiling, smiling, with a satisfaction and an optimism that these issues too will be discussed from now on with the necessary seriousness. Because we are used to being proud here in Greece when we hear that this Greek works in NASA, the other working in the European Space Agency, one being in Harvard. How all these people will turn around to work for Greece, we don't talk about it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I should like to conclude by saying this, without, of course, challenging the enormous investment we are making in the development of the fibre optic networks. We will have 4 billion investments by 2022, which will truly transform the way in which Greek citizens have access to speeds on the Internet. We had a very revealing speech from Mr Venizelos. What did Mr. Venizelos say? He said that we poorly downloaded the surpluses because they were counting on them to be used as negotiating paper. Against who? In other words, I beg your pardon, we have lowered the surpluses and taken positive measures. And what do they have in mind to do exactly? Let me tell you what they have in mind to do. They want to use surpluses as a lever against the country, as the debt was used at first, as the country's euro stay used, just to put pressure on the prerequisites. What do they have in mind to give to them - if the non-sexual - lower surpluses? Now that we've downloaded them, what are they gonna do? Are they going to return it to 3.5% so they can negotiate in the first place? To negotiate what? Did the Pinochet insurance and say 'a, did we get an external coercion'? That's the reality. And reality should. And the reality says that we are going to elections, where there is a ballot, which explicitly calls for the adoption of positive measures, which we shall vote on next week. And this is the New Democracy ballot, which is run by people who, if elected to the European Parliament, will vote for the Presidency of the Commission to Mr Weber, who have not yet finished Alexis Tsipras' announcements and has rushed to denounce them. So the Greek citizens know that the vote in the New Democracy means a vote to abolish the thirteenth pension, abolishing the VAT reductions and canceling the positive measures we take. On the other hand, there will also be the SYRIZA vote with the Progressive Alliance, the only one that can guarantee a programme within Europe that answers the major social issue. The major social issue is the return to growth and the reduction of social inequalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u365	A short psalm of each other. We'll see in 15 days what happens. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the Greek Parliament organises, forty-four students and students and four teachers from the 10th Municipal School of Trikalon. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Helena Koudoura has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u366	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Alexis Tsipras and our government pulled Greece out of the darkness, the memorials and the crisis and led it to light. Greece in August 2018 changed its page and stands up to its own forces today. We have regained control and responsibility for planning our future, for taking part in global developments on an equal footing. Nothing today reminds of the negative picture presented by Greece before 2015. Our national economy records positive growth rates for a third consecutive year and proceeded to brave reforms, supporting the Greek economy and society. With a very specific plan, we are moving towards the productive reconstruction of our country, on new, healthy bases. The measures announced by the Prime Minister are permanent measures. Let me remind you that since September last year, we have only voted for positive measures to alleviate and reduce social justice, such as the increase in minimum wages, the abolition of the subordinate, the reduction of insurance contributions, the reintroduction of collective labour agreements, the reduction of HISA. All our government's commitments have become the act and laws of the state and we continue to work for economic and social prosperity, with a development program and respect for Greek citizens. When the opposition shares promises and seeks to buy time and credibility, our government implements what it has promised to do. That is why the Greek people trusted Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister who successfully managed the economic and humanitarian crisis, kept society upright, strengthened the social state, reformed the labour market and established a new development path for the country. The Greek people do not care and abstain from political gossip, they recognize the dispersal of false news and are annoyed by the micropolitics that the opposition is trying to impose and its friendly means and does not want to hear senseless promises, insults and scandalology. With the measures already implemented by the citizens, they will see the improvement in their daily lives as well as the integrated aid plan for the many people presented by the Prime Minister for the next four years, which has a purely social and developmental character, allowing Greece to become a strong, economic and socially prosperous country. The next four years, with the confidence of the Greek people, we will ensure that we return to normality. With this new plan, our Prime Minister will renew Parliament's confidence tonight, and this will also reclaim people's confidence in the European elections on May 26th, but also in national elections at the end of the four-year period. I feel very proud that with my work and my work as Minister of Tourism I have contributed to this national effort to strengthen our economy and the great success of tourism not only created thousands of jobs, but also attracted new investments, took off our national revenues and was given the opportunity to implement an even more dynamic economic and social policy. In these strong development prospects that we have created for tourism in the years to come, it is very important that the government's decision to reduce the taxation of the tourism sector, a request I made to the Prime Minister and to the financial staff and I claimed it. Today, then, it has been done. I also thanked Euclid Tsakalotos, but also the Prime Minister himself, because we have just secured a financial space, we have managed to reduce VAT to the focus directly, from 24% to 13% for 2019 and 2020, and the focus and the stay from 13% will go to 11%. It is a very great breath for the entire tourism sector and will make it even more competitive so that our Greece will become even more attractive. I would like here, however, to express my grief for the opposition, but also for our political opponents, who are engaged in making news and trying to make politics with Scandalology, gossip and immoral personal attacks. To these lies and slanders I always respond politically, with seriousness and responsibility. I understand that they find it difficult to accept my successful job in tourism, which, if you like, supported Greece in the difficult years and enabled us to do these permanent measures, to make an economic policy for the welfare of many. As I am also saddened by the sexist attacks that I have had in the past, just because I am a woman and have worked for the success of this government of Alexis Tsipras. Finally, I would like to make it clear to you some slander that has been heard today to my face, because neither the Ministry of Tourism or the EOT have had the budget to give money to polling companies so that we can do research, as has been said, so that we can get the benefit of the pollsters. The Ministry doesn't have any contracts. The Greek Tourism Organization, however, which has contracts, puts them all up to "DINAYIA". It is at the disposal of any citizen, so that he can see advertising, visibility, public relations and what we do with our reports abroad. Unfortunately, the EOT budget is too small and even though it would be very useful for some research to be able to draw up a more targeted policy, unfortunately we have never had this possibility, with an exception in 2016, after the refugee crisis, when the EOT then did an investigation into thirteen gates of entry, at a cost of the order, than I was informed, of 17,360 euros, so that we can see after the refugee crisis the counting of the quality and quantitative satisfaction of foreign tourists and see how we will move in the future. I am, therefore, taking the political route seriously, responsible for the good of our country, above every party benefit, above all political or personal costs, with the national interest alone. I therefore give a vote of confidence to our Government, which brought Greece out of the crisis and laid the foundations on a new development path for all Greeks, for young people, for young people and for future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u367	We shall now proceed with Mr Aristides Fokas. Then there is Mr Mandash, as I have said, and this unity with the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, will be closed. Here, Mr. Fokas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u368	Jesus Christ Resurrection! The Independent Greeks have asked for the debate to be postponed on the motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy and the motion of confidence to which the government has turned it. The Turkish challenge in the Aegean and Eastern Mediterraneans is escalating daily. It is the most serious national crisis since the Imian era to this day. At the moment, the Armed Forces' officials, seeing the debate in the House, would expect unity of the political forces. The Civic Opposition, which took the initiative, the Government, the Greek Independent Party, and the other parties that participate in the Greek Parliament, unanimously, must support national positions, circumvent our differences, send a message to our allies to support international law. Here there is a flagrant violation of the law of the sea on the part of Turkey, which, not only threatens, but goes on to two drillings within the Cypriot EEZ. That means occupation of Cypriot territory! We proposed postponement of this debate and instead of that, the Prime Minister and the President of the Staff Regulations were launched the day before yesterday with personal attacks on each other, a debate that leads nowhere. The only leader of the party who is aware of the seriousness of the situation is Panos Kammenos. Let's not forget that with Independent Greeks and SYRIZA the country was able to come out of the darkness of the monuments. The Independent Greeks are the ones who in the summer of 2015 turned the steering wheel from Venezuela and Russia to the West, in which we belong, promoting new alliances with Israel, the United States, Egypt, Jordan, the United Arab Emirates. The bill of 20 instalments, which was discussed in committees, like the bills to follow, is a product of sacrifices by the Greek people, is a product of the work of SYRIZA - ANEL co-operation. The only thing the Independent Greeks disagreed with their partners in co-government was and is the treasonous agreement of the Ambassadors. The former Foreign Minister has not explained why this agreement is not treacherous, because here we have given up a name, we have delivered ethnicity, we have delivered language. 90% of Greeks to recall that they view this betrayal as true and it is sad yet to defend that it was for our own good. The former Foreign Minister didn't explain to us if the e-mails were fake or true. He only told us that he was hotmail and g - mail, while communications are clearly from a member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with a candidate investor. This is a black spot in SYRIZA-ANEL cooperation. This in itself, however, shows that cooperation between parties bears fruit. Apart from the black part of cooperation with Mr Kotzias, what we had to discuss now is the possible sympathy for all of us with the provocative neighbour. The SYRIZA minority government cannot proceed alone. Serious issues, such as foreign policy and the economy, need a government of cooperation. The examples are seen in countries that resisted the Brussels headquarters. One of these is Hungary, which all together managed to tax on businesses at 9%, income tax at 16%, unemployment at 3%, youth unemployment at 9.5%, pensions at sixty-two years. There Hungary's government and people were united. They had the courage to defend and control their currency, the Central Bank and their borders. It is in the European Union and NATO. Hungary was united in resisting the wills of the European Union and the Germans. As long as the place ever needs to be united and conscientious, especially in foreign policy matters. The Independent Greeks have shown that it is in the country's interests, leaving aside personal ambitions. It is time to prove united together that against the provocativeness of Turkey, in the next few years, the Presidents of the resignations and Parliament will be taking the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u369	We continue with the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Manda Christos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u370	Good evening! Valer Benjamin, ladies and gentlemen, in his essay on historical materialism, he wrote that history is always the one the winners have ever been. I think that Mr Venizelos' intensity and incense - because this is what I want to comment on from the core of his speech - about the strategic defeat of SYRIZA comes from the reality that he realises that he may no longer be able to tell the story on the part of the winners. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that the winners who have made history a lot of times have been, at the same time, and the undertakers of history. I'm going to another matter now. I've taken it from the book of Umberto Echo, entitled "In the shoulders of the giants" and from the chapter: "Look, I'm true, I'm lying, I'm falsifying." It's a story there. It refers to a story by Umberto Echo, in the history of Ptolemy. Ptolemy confirmed that the Sun revolves around the Earth. He certainly said something that didn't apply and said it because he was wrong, but he wasn't lying. A lie means saying the opposite of what one considers to be true, while Ptolemy was absolutely convinced that the Sun is moving. I guess we don't have many Ptolemys on this side. What do we got? We have another kind. Lying often is a binary relationship. However, there are also monophone or trinity lies. I have the impression that colleagues, in particular the Officerial Response, belong to this category, to monophone lies or to monophone mistrust, I would say better. What's that? So monophony is the mistrust through which a man who knows the truth lies to himself and usually ends up believing in his lies. In the mistrust of the liar and the one who accepts the lie is the same person, which means that I should know - as someone who deceives - the truth I hide from my deceived self. They may seem a little strange and I will add something more, but they will make us think of some things. Hannah Ared says the problem with lies and deception is that their effectiveness is entirely based on a clear conception of truth, which the liar and the deceiver wants to hide. Why am I saying all this? Because, ladies and gentlemen, I understood from Mr Mitsotakis' speech that he made a choice which, in my opinion, would mark the course of the Officerial Response from now on and the course of the New Democracy party itself, a traditional centre-right until now. I believe that Mr Mitsotakis has really failed in his plan to blur the waters and to change the agenda for the debate and I would like to say to him and to my fellow Members that the methods of macaritation and the staff of Trump and Bolsonarus do not go to Greece and Europe. The methods of post-fascism do not go to Greece and Europe. And I think Mr Mitsotakis unfortunately - I've met him as a liberal politician - seems more and more dramatic, hopelessly - I would say and I'm sorry about that - with this leader of LAOS - with whom I would remind you that you coexisted with the government of Papademos - and the way that this particular leader of LAOS was working. Where did the liberal Mr. Mitsotakis go? I can't find him anywhere anymore and I've been sitting here for too many years when he was a parliamentary representative. I believe that the leading team of the New Democracy is sinking every day. I hope and believe - and I see many times - that some colleagues do not follow or distance from this road to the swamp of false news. Look, the New Democracy policy is a little - I would describe it - like the London wheel - as Euclid well knows -, which has several pieces around - which turn in the exact same way constantly. These baskets, then, have five - six things inside, lawlessness, the Eye, now the bounty, has been added to them by misery for the Prime Minister’s family and some of them. You are turning this wheel, colleagues of the New Democracy. This wheel, the unmovable wheel, with these specific baskets in different doses each time you turn. And you do not dare - because this is what this is about - to have a structured debate on our programme differences and to say what is true and what lies we have done, what we have done, how have we done so, when we have done so and what perspective we are giving. For as long as you go along this road I think you have absolutely no future, not only to govern, but also as a party of the Central Right in Greek and European reality. So what we are defending - we are trying, in any case, to defend - is first and foremost democracy itself against anti-political 'after-democracy'. We are defending the political and programmed confrontation with micro-policy and bipolarity. And, of course, we defend the law of many against the injustice of the few. And proof of this - for those who want to watch out, read, but also for all the people who live in these things - is what our ministers, all the ministers, the Minister of Education, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Administrative Reform, the Deputy Minister of Social Solidarity, the Minister of Labour, the Minister of Digital Policy, the former Minister of Tourism, and many others - I do not want to blame anyone for what we have done, and there are very specific things, in difficult circumstances, that have changed and changed people's lives. We never have - but never! - He celebrates, we have never spoken of a success story, perhaps even the opposite, sometimes, and in an extreme way. I would like to say that I feel that all of us, all of us very often, are so humble and low tone - first of all, I am dating to the media - that we do not have time to say the very much we have done with a hard work and never have we ever had time to enjoy this - as we say - throughout this very difficult period of time, which the history of the future I think will be seen with another eye, calmer and more sober. So I'm saying we're at a turning point. That is why we are calling for this critical turning point once again - it will be the last, I imagine, in this parliamentary term until October when we are going to the national elections - the vote of confidence in Parliament and, at the same time, we are calling for the people's confidence vote. And why are we asking for this thing? We are asking for it with knowledge, but also with passion for two reasons: firstly, because we know very well that we have fought in these difficult conditions in an honest way in a direction of defending the social majority and, secondly, because we know very well that the New Democracy has an extreme neoliberal anti-social programme which will dismantle society and bring us to such a regression, which we cannot yet imagine. I will give an example of this. We have said this before in the last budget debate for 2019, December 2018. Mr Juliarakis analysed in particular the New Democracy programme, which talks about sharp reductions in taxes, overtaxation and much more, and then says what the solution is, to cut taxes to bring growth. Parental here - a star - is that within it, which is critical, they have taken the tax-free cut into account. I would again say that, with the softest calculations, the New Democracy programme, as it was presented in the last International Report, was at least EUR 5 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me speak one more minute, Mr President. And the question is where they will find this money to make this programme, because, unlike New Democracy, we, as has many times been said, in this new period, within the budgetary space we have and in the budget, are setting up exactly our programme, which is a programme that is balanced between social spending and targeted tax relief. And we are doing this in the mid-term, precisely because we do not want to go to surpluses of 4.5% or 5%, that is to say, overcompensation of our commitments. And now we have the possibility. And this, along with many others, is another proof that we have come out of the memorials definitively. I therefore believe that we are faced with critical dilemmas in a critical political battle. That is why, with our work and with our perspective and with our proposal, we call for the vote of confidence of the Parliament and the vote of confidence of the Greek people. I conclude by saying that our project, ladies and gentlemen, has a European dimension that we sometimes forget. After World War II and the end of World War II and after the end of the Cold War - I would say - in such conditions in Europe we did not have left-wing rule in a western country through the election process. We broke this story, a party establishment that had been working for decades and which plundered the country and brought it into this situation, especially in the years of the Memorandum, as a result of policies that, during the period of the thick cows, did nothing or did very little - to zero - to create a productive model and a social state that would have sustainability and perspective. And we did what was not done in other European countries, and that is a lesson in historical depth. We were able to stir up what would be a reality if we as a radical Left did not take this initiative, stir fascism and Nazism. Because in these circumstances of crisis, we - our country - have dared and undertaken this great task - in my opinion - are, in fact, an example at European level of where things should go. Otherwise, if we do not change our countries and if we do not change Europe, if we do not make it more socially, with fewer inequalities, then really for many other reasons, especially for reasons of democracy and democracy, the snake of fascism, the risk of fascism will return and then developments can be very dramatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u371	Mr. Mada, don't complain. To avoid misunderstanding, medical chauvinism was him. We close this unity with the Vice-President of the Government, Mr.Ioannis Drasakis, whom I call for in Step and say, because the Secretariats of the Parliamentary Groups are following us, that the Heads of State or Government are starting in the following order: Mr. Leventis, Mr. Theodorakis, Mr. Michaliakos, Mrs. The Minister of Finance, as I said, Mr Tsakalotos, followed by Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read the speech of the President of the New Democracy, I have heard several of the Members' speeches and have found that a central argument put forward in these days, a claim, is that the measures we announced are election benefits, that the thirteenth pension in the form introduced was given to take over the vote of pensioners - a great insult for pensioners, but I am going over it - that VAT on nutrition, energy, etc. We have reduced it to win the consumer vote, that the increased depreciation we adopt to win business and so on, farmers with cooperatives, young people, etc. This argument is therefore summarised in the fact that the government is on the basis of criteria of beneficial, pro-election criteria. Let's assume that's the way it is. I do not agree, but let us assume that this is the case, that we have actually worked out these measures to satisfy some social groups with voting objectives. However, it is not concluded from the argument that the measures announced were not necessary. In fact, I have heard several, including Mrs Bakoyannis, criticising that the measures are inadequate and that we should also reduce taxes. The measures were therefore necessary. Nor is it the argument that the measures are not in favour of the whole of society. The charge addressed to the Government is that the measures were taken in electoral time. If, that is, a few months ago or, at any rate, another time - you let it be transparent - there would be no problem. So if we accept that this is the case, that we did so in the run-up to elections, I would like to ask the following question: What is the New Democracy doing in the run-up to the elections? So, what issues does she raise? Or how does he react to initiatives that we take? If the Government adopts the thirteenth pension or VAT reduction to win the elections, what are the countermeasures proposed by the New Democracy? The countermeasures proposed by the New Democracy are Petsitis, Polakis, horror with the victims of the tragedy in Matti, and lastly the horn and family of the Prime Minister. So what we, even if we fully adopt your own logic, is an initiative in the field of politics and it is within the rules of democracy. There is no rule prohibiting you from taking measures, even in times of elections. What you do, however, escapes the field of politics. He's getting away from the realm of democracy. It moves in the sphere of pity and slander. I accepted your logic not because it's right, but to show exactly what's behind it. And what is hidden is a political and moral confrontation, which in these days became clear to the Greek people. On the one hand it is politics, and on the other hand it is lies and misguided. On the one hand, democracy and on the other hand, it is slander, make news, post-democracy. I now come to the Timing, the time at which we announced the measures. Indeed, time is electoral. We have elections in a few days, European elections and self-government. But if these measures are necessary, as you say, if these measures are to serve the economy and society, if therefore these measures had to be taken, when did they have to be taken? Later? But if we can do something positive, why postpone it for the future, since we can do it now? Another argument. Let us assume that we did decide on these measures later. When later? Some people would once again say that you are doing so in the run-up to national elections. And to prove this, I remind you of this fact. Was this not said after the Prime Minister's announcements last year at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition? And then some people said: election promises, they will never be implemented. However, all the measures announced at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition have been institutionalised, implemented and implemented. Could we have done it before this period? Not too soon. Why? Because we couldn't. The preparation was made by the Ministry of Finance, by Mr. Tsakalotos and by all of us, but we could not announce measures costly if we did not have the official announcement of the surplus and the other macroeconomic figures of 2018. When did EUROSTAT become an official communication? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of Conclusion: The measures we have announced, as you call them, even if you say so in the election, are a political advantage both for the citizens and for the economy. Your countermeasures, however, are, as I have already said, outside the sphere of politics and democracy. They draw - I cannot say this - from the sewers of extreme right and dark interests, they affect democracy and society. I shall therefore return to the substance of the matter now, in order to highlight the real features of the measures which we have announced. What are these measures and where are they intended? First, the measures notified are not exceptional or single election benefits. They are permanent policies, which are now made possible by the possibilities which we ourselves have created, by the sacrifices of the people and by the policy we have pursued. These measures are now possible, because the government is making effective and targeted use of the available financial space we have gained, with a view to strengthening the already existing and accelerated economic recovery and alleviating those most affected by the crisis. Secondly, these measures also form a line of preventive defence against the dangers of aliens from the international environment. The aim of these measures is to compensate for any negative effects on the economic slowdown observed in Europe and in general in the world. Thirdly, these measures are not reversed by the reform programme that we are implementing, of course, new generation or new type reforms, reforms that enhance growth and social justice and not austerity. In fact, many of the measures we have announced are promoting, helping, transforming our economy's productive base, supporting investment in technological and industrial equipment, as well as promoting cooperation in the rural area, in order to create economies of scale and increase productivity. I note by the way - another time we can return to them - that measures such as overcompensation are a strong incentive, a strong instrument in favour of investment, particularly in sectors that require machinery. Fourthly, the measures announced incorporate the principles of fair and sustainable development, contributing to economic growth and at the same time supporting the country's social and regional cohesion, by strengthening citizens' access to basic goods, such as services of general interest, such as electricity, gas, etc. Fifthly, these measures show that the exit from the memorandum was not a formal process, but it is a conquest of society, as the degrees of autonomy and the financial space we have gained allow us today to pass into a new mix of policy more friendly to development and to society. That is why these measures, on the one hand, come as a complement to those announced last year at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki and, on the other hand, are not the latter. Any new margin that we are going to win will be turned into policies to support investment, employment and the social state. These, in my view, ladies and gentlemen, are the facts, the more I have been able to capture them. We, therefore, have political measures which are beneficial to the citizens. You tombbles, slander, slander. We, in an alliance with the progressive citizens, insist on the field of politics, defend democracy. You, with the credit of those who praise you today, are the extreme right -wing literature. And let me have one last experiential experience as one of the oldest perhaps in this Chamber. Personally, on my political path I have experienced similar situations in the past. At one time, in the 1980s, before the 1985 elections, a photograph of Constantine Mitsotakis, the father of today's president of the New Democracy, along with a thousand Nazis, had been published in a newspaper. With the Nazis or the Nazis agent was Constantine Mitsotakis, the newspaper then wrote. After the election it was recognized that it was a fake photo. At the same time, photographs were released with a hen that was supposed to belong to Charilao Floraki. Of course right after that it was found that it was a lie. And all that time - since the mid-1980s - they continued at the expense of Constantine Mitsotakis once at the expense of Andreas Papandreou, and somewhere there was also a shot toward Florakis or other left-wing officials. Needless to say, all of this would not have had any substantial impact on the election results. They only succeeded in erosion of democracy, depreciation of politics, strengthening degenerative phenomena in the country's public morals. I see Spyros Lykoudis. And the Cyrcus often included these practices. Do you want to copy these methods today? So we're still going to face the heavy legacy of the crisis and bankruptcy? So we are going to face the challenges of the future? Haven't you learned anything from the past? So we are going to face the dangers to democracy? We are not discussing any gaps. We are living at a historic juncture in which there are forces both in the media sphere and in the sphere of politics that push policy towards excubation, as there are extreme right-wing forces in both Greece and Europe that openly fight democracy, cultivating hatred, xenophobia and racism. At the moment, therefore, I would like to call - and you and everyone, at least as many people as possible, will allow us to defend the principles of political dialogue and the political controversy on the critical and serious problems that society is facing on the basis of our programmes, our perceptions, our ideas, the values that everyone has. Everything else is eroding democracy, harming politics, harming society. With these thoughts, I believe that the majority of the House today, the majority of society tomorrow, will give a vote of confidence to this government and to the forces that support it, so that we can continue and complete our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u373	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, fourteen students and students and three educational sessions from the Elementary School of Ascension of Hersonissos Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the speeches of the political leaders. I would like to inform you at the outset, in order not to be surprised, that Mr Theodorakis and Mr Leventis will be given more time because they did not make a protology, that is to say, that the time of protology will be added and that they will not only have the time of dentistry. Mr. Leventis will now be given the floor. Here are Mr. Michaloliakos, Mrs. Gennimatas, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Tsipras. Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the last words of Mr Drasakis, who said that he believes that the National Representation will give a vote of confidence again. I would like to point out to him that the political men are calling for it by the people and not by the National Representation. That vote will count, Mr Drasakis, whether you have the approval of society. The present numerical superiority you have created, the way you have created it, you know if it is enough for you and if it is the one that gives you the right to do what you do. You'll be judging it. Then you said that the various people who were going up to the dough turned out to be a demolition of political life, namely that the complaints about Florakis were false, that the photograph for Mr Mitsotakis had been photographed with Germans. That's what you said. Let me have some doubts if it turned out to be all these fake photographs, because they didn't come out of a court. Just historically imploding the impression. That's my opinion. I don't remember a court of law that said that this picture was faked, that there was an expert on it. However, to raise politicians to the best is the best? So, Andreas Papandreou, who was climbing the Kokalis' "Guantalahara" was his good times? Was the good times of Andreas Papandreou, the ones he took a vacation with the hen of Kokalis? It wasn't the good times of Andreas Papandreou. You, the neo-democrats, don't know why you've made your point with poorer arguments. Hasn't anyone raised you in a nutshell? You don't? And in Mykonos you are frequent and in nuts you are also in the living rooms of Kolonaki. Please, please, be serious. For Christ said "the one who sinned first put the stone" and did not bear any stone. No one's put up a stone. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Well, generally, in public life we have to be cosmos, if we want people to respect each other, because there are people who live with 300 euros. If people represent him from the lower, it's your case. Get in the cafes and see what the world says about politicians. Go to the cafes and see if there is a citizen who tells you "I congratulate Tsipras who was in Panagopoulos, I congratulate Andreas Papandreou, who was at the best of Kokkalis. There was a time when they photographed "Guantalahara" daily, first page and commendable PASOK that his president on the yacht of Mr. Kokalis is on vacation, and now you have taken him. It was such a good morals! Many of you say: Why? Rich people aren't entitled to be in combinations, in lists? Of course, they deserve rich people, but they are also a sign of how each party thinks. So, will Coke represent the 300 euros? Will he represent these six hundred thousand in Germany? What will the young bone represent? Tell me what it will represent and then do. Once the Prime Minister came out - I think in the Chamber - Mr. Tsipras said he caught Richard at last, a big dealer who was picking up gold and sent it to Turkey and presented it as a national success, that we were arresting a smuggler. After two or three days, this smuggler became a hero and continues to work everywhere. In Naoussa the shop has two - three stores in Veria. Richard was a smuggler after all? He was a good man and we slandered him unjustly? What was it for all of them? Because, in order for the Prime Minister to arrive here to say that he arrested Richard, it means that it was the great success of the economic authorities. It is not important what Mr Drasakis says about the New Democracy colleagues, because if he were, he would say so in the Chamber too. Other things the Minister says. You're not saying anything about the dough. The horns are allowed. I'm not sorry at all. You brought measures to relieve the world and today the world is so unhappy that you can give it... I was in Thessaloniki yesterday - and that is why I did not speak in protology - and I sat here to see how people thought and spent a third beggars who were not looking for 10, 20, or 50 euros, but 0.5 euros or a tenth of the euro they accepted to satisfy. So Greece and society have arrived in impoverishment. There it has arrived and you give him up to 500 euros a year, over 500 euros 30%, over 1,000 euros I don't know what you're giving him. Good percentages, you give him some money, which is, of course, calculated for the very poor, because he can buy bread. Go all over Europe and if you see three days before the elections to give the state 50, 100, 500 euros, tell me that you are the second. All over Europe! What will citizens say three days before the elections when they see in their bills 100 euros? What are they gonna say? What's great with the Prime Minister? Something else they'll say and you know what they'll say. I don't want to say it because I respect the Chamber. For Christ's sake! In Germany, I have stressed that the electoral law does not change six years before the elections. That is, if we change for six years now with the system that is now and last year, the election campaign is forbidden. Do you hear that? What are you doing here? You teach all Europe a political attitude in this way, with the 50, 100 and 200 euros and the recruitment you are preparing, the simulations of contractors. Let the next government do it. You think you'll be. Why do you want to take into account your percentage? And Rallis, speaking here to right-wing people, fought at the end of his term of office and made ruffles and made assignments. Somewhere I was, where was a Gregory, Director General, I told them: "Are you crazy? Fifteen days before the election and you appoint the National Bank cleaners? What are you doing? What are these?’ They said: "The rival in PASOK has been very horrific and we are forced." Rallis and I think he increased the power of his difference instead of reducing it. I mean, such last-minute moves, assignments, etc., look panic. I don't know. Do Rallie have a lesson in SYRIZA? Probably Rally. I can't give another explanation. Aren't there going to be elections by September? They'll be done. Do you really think one you've appointed now will vote for you? You know what everyone says from inside? They are not so stupid for the Greeks to forget many austerity and many years' sacrifices, because you appoint them, because they know why you are now appointing them. You say, "We're making things right," that is, the economy went well and you're making things right. What does "economy go well" mean? An economy goes well when investment is made and when there's growth. Did you bring any growth? If the economy went well, it went well in numbers, and after you got stirred and swung all over the country! That's how the economy went. You've dealt all over the world and the one you collected from the stripping of the world, you say you're turning 50 or 100 euros. It's embarrassing! You'll remember them. You will spend time, you will leave this House and you will be accompanied by a reproach for your behaviour. This is the only way you think that you can remain in power with such moves. However, I am saying something about the New Democracy as well. Do not rejoice in New Democracy, because Mr Mitsotakis returns and everywhere blesses everything. In other words, to those who were beaten by the "Rubics" said: "On the other day, there will be a bolt and there will be order". So when the President of the Republic was Minister of Citizen Protection and had to protect Marfin's prisoners, did he have to send the police and slaughter? Crime is all over the place with art. You find the nuclei, you dismantle the nuclei. There is no conflict between protesters and anti-democrats, because you remember what happened in Patras with that Kalamboka and that Temponer when there was a conflict. Good to have a victim back then! We could have twenty-five! So she wants art. It's not easy. Since you yourself have managed such times before, and have you shown weakness? Why do you promise? Say a simple word: 'What we can do'. Such a simpler thing is thought to be of good intention than to show the maniac that you will fix it all by one! Clear things! The people want to be honest. Does Mitsotakis have greater skills than Samaras? I don't understand. Here became the Macedonian and Karamalis didn't open his mouth. Yesterday, I was approached by one in Thessaloniki and he says to me: "What about Karamanlis you have to say?" I say, "One moment, guys. Karamalis made a statement about the scum? Where is Karamanlis' statement to say: ‘I disagree. Shouldn't we give the name? Nothing! KOLYNOS toothpastes are more serious than Karamanlis' statement! I'm sorry, is the statement honouring you? And then you go to Thessaloniki and say, "We are against the Prespecies Agreement." What does "we're against" mean? You only talked about language and identity. For the name you never spoke about! And is it a lie that on the Foreign Ministry's website you wrote a composite name in 2008? Is it a lie? Is it a lie that you came to Bucharest with a proposal "Macedonia (Skopje)"? Is it a lie that Vaggelis Venizelos went to the United Nations and said a complex name? So Macedonia was in front of three parties giving Macedonia! I'm lying? Did New Democracy ask for a referendum? Where's the referendum? I wrote to Mr. Mitsotakis and said to him, "He said that you will never accept the term “Macedonia”. He didn't answer me. That was before the vote at that time on distrust. I said to him: “Speak that you will not accept... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] I didn't interrupt you. We endure stoics when you talk, even when you talk bullshit. So let us talk when we say some serious things. We need to learn in the House to listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u375	We're listening! We've been listening all this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u376	...why you come and read here "whispers" that are obviously written to you by others. Isn't that right? Or are you completely incapable of making a speech here in the House? Those who are reading documents, why are you reading? Is one to be a MP and not to be able to recite a ten-minute speech? You know he's been forbidden in this House to speak of a manuscript? How many people speak in this Chamber without a manuscript? Have you counted them? Mr. Tasouula, you have to measure them sometime, make an account. They ask me, "What have you been doing four years, Mr. Leventis? What benefit did Greece benefit?' From PASOK, who appointed a million people, what did Greece benefit? From you, from New Democracy? In fact, in the betrayal of Macedonia you are accomplices. What did Greece benefit from? You're down 60 percent of the world's pensions. Is that what Greece has benefited from New Democracy? Or didn't you take the pensions down? What did Greece benefit from Tsipras? What will Greece remember from Tsipras? You fought yesterday for Paul Tsipra's opinions. You were fighting yesterday about the minds and whether he was right. I happened and lived him, and I tell you I was left because I was always a fiery central, of mere analogous and democratic views. I had a fight with Father Tsipras and he called me left. He didn't reveal what he was. For what you're saying, she's getting work on junta, listen to something: On the junction everyone who took jobs cared for her. Like today, those taking jobs are not against the government. They go, that is, to the Minister, who shares his jobs and tells him "we are right, but give us"? These things can't be done. Why have I asked for a public prosecutor to be present at the award of large public works and public procurement? Why? And a public prosecutor for a draw, not me to appoint my friend the D.A. By lot, the Advocate-General shall be present in the award procedure. Because it's more like chasing the trace of stealing and having him present in the process, avoiding thieves and stealing. Did the Hall ever answer me? In the criminalisation of the rosphet, which I asked to do with a blind system from now on, Greece, all here and everywhere? I mean, writing your molecules, your condition, and then entering. Not knowing the man who approves the assignment - just have a code - who you are. Otherwise, what will happen, Mr. Kalafatis, whether each one of them will put his own? Will this country ever be saved? I've met your father and we had dinner together in Thessaloniki. Does your father want to continue the rushphetti or does he want the country to get serious? I'm asking you! Ask him! Because, personally, he told me that he wanted the country to get serious. That's what he said. Now, because he's your father, he can vote for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u377	But public works don't do my father.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u378	For Europe and the euro in this context, a lot of disgrace has been made. I mean, Tsipras was tearing up memoirs, and then he turned into a stubborn American. Is anyone questioning it? In fact, did some of Tsipras go around in SYRIZA and say: 'If there are any hot incidents with Turkey? If we do not give Macedonia to the Skopje and nothing is done?' Listen to SYRIZA's argument! They appeared in the debates and said: 'If we say no to the Americans and there is a hot episode then Greece?' Do you hear what arguments the name "Macedonia" was given in Skopje? You should be ashamed of SYRIZA's for this thing. Samaras went to Zappeion, and he was practically a Eurosceptic, like Karazafiris. I was listening late one night on a tape of Karajafier saying he represents Eurosceptics. There has been an ideology of Europe's refusal, according to Karazafiris. He has nothing to say, because what he has said has refused them and all he has left now is to say a Eurosceptic. He doesn't know Farage's luck. There was one, ready to rule in England, who disappeared from the map. Understand? He's making the Eurosceptic. It's not an ideology to hate Europe. Europe has many weaknesses, there is no doubt. It has too many weaknesses, it has made too many mistakes and it does not show either solidarity. And Merkel shouldn't have allowed anyone to close the refugee border, he had to cut his funding. The countries of Europe must also absorb the burdens either economically or in refugees. That is what Europe will say. Joint acceptance of the burdens. Some states are not entitled to close borders and let coastal states lift the burden! They had to cut off in these countries that are wronged by funding, see, they're gonna close the border after that? If you let him close a border, he'll do whatever he wants. So Europe wants much more bolder decisions. We need more Europe and more sincerely. And in this Chamber all of you who are here have questioned Europe. Samaras in Zapeio, Tsipras with those madnesss he did, saying "no" to one, "no" to the other and "yes" to all, with the referendums, with all this image. Then they say: 'we have lost our trust in Europe'. And how did we regain trust? Gettin' tangled up. When we got out, we regained trust. Be sure that when you're out on the bars and talkin' crazy, the only way you're going to convince me is to go out unscrupulous in the middle of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u379	That's very nice, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u380	I find these words because I want to be real. I don't want to be wooden or fake. Your words. Put Tsipra in 2014. I say things a lot more calmly than he said in 2014. Isn't that right? Put the tapes on! Did you lose them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u381	Can I get you a look at what you were saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u382	You don't have the tapes. The betrayal that took place about the scop is not going to pass that way. You fight, sharing money, for the people to swallow what happened. Forget it! Macedonia's price is not being purchased. There'll be trials for the scorpion. New Democracy and Mitsotakis will not be recorded on those who were not on the side of treason. Because the name of Macedonia you first sell, of the New Democracy, with Kostas Karamanlis and Dora Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u383	That is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u384	Are you laughing? One laughing shows that he's out of place and time. I want to say a couple of words about the register. You say if you don't declare it, you lose it. What's that? Why lose it? You can have the chance until the next contract makes the statement. Why would you lose it? What is it? Davaji is the state and has to take the homes of the world? A request for all the homosexuals is to have the opportunity until the next transfer to make the renewal of the Stock Exchange. What are you missing? What House signed up to lose your fortune? The banks told the micrologues: " put the money, purchase Greek government bonds, are stronger than having it at Alpha Bank and Eurobank". Alpha Bank and Eurobank did not lose the money and were lost by the Greek State. Is it a State credibility? This issue for microbiologists and for borrowers in a Swiss franc has to be solved by Parliament, because some people have lost their money, gentlemen. They lost them dishonestly, urging to go ahead and cheating people lost their money either the micro-automators or the borrowers in a Swiss franc. Disprove me if I lie. You keep saying we have progress on the one hand - SYRIZA is progress - and maintenance on the other. Progress in what is it? The fact that we put the drugs on lists, and can't anyone have that medicine in their illness? Is that progress? Is that any progress? The fact that we cut off the ESS is also progress? Is this really progress? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] What progress is there for you? That you're not right? One with the left-wing cloak could be more right than the right-wing ones. The substance counts. It doesn't count what you're saying. And in PASOK socialists said, and Andreas Papandreou took his holidays with the "Guadalahara", the best of Kokalis. And he was so good as to say to him: "Come here to us as a candidate. The SYRIZA candidate. He's a good man."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u385	That's why they took him now, Mr. President. For the sharpest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u386	You didn't just take the bone, you got the heavier. He's right. The lobster goes with his armor. You took Mr. Kyburopoulos to New Democracy. I have no objections. Mr. Kyburopoulos is a new scientist. He can go to any party he wants. After all, the parties are about the same, wherever they go. Pick the party that, in polls, has power. He said: "I'm going there if I'm going out." Is Mr. Kymporopoulos convinced that all the years that the New Democracy, the Right, supported people with disabilities? Is he convinced or went for his personal elevation? To accept that Paulis was badly treated with such a man, a scientist who wanted to get into politics. That's true. Mr. Paulakis was tough. But does Mr Kymporopoulos himself think that the New Democracy is the party that justifies the poor, the helpless? Does Mr. Kyburopoulos think so? So, why did he go, why did he choose this party? Because he wanted his rise. He acted like every Greek acted like he was. It hurts to come out! You've been talking to a man who's been in politics for forty years. The first thirty-seven were out of politics. I didn't look for a way to climb or go through the window. And I gave a lesson of patience in some places. Didn't Mr. Kyburopoulos see that? If he didn't see it, his mistake. It's gonna be bad for his evolution if he doesn't have the power and the crisis to choose a party and he only goes on the basis of a criterion that will find easier climbing. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, please be brief. They're waiting for the kids, and I have to welcome them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u388	The whole Chamber three days now you say the same night.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u389	Now we're at the end, and the pressure's higher. You understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u390	Towels, Marinaces, lower. This is where the House has become a café.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u391	All right, let's not keep going. It happened once.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u392	Yesterday you were talking about the thoughts of a dead man, Father Tsipras. Here calling signs and monsters. Let one speak politically!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u393	Restrict now to complete. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u394	Anyway. I want to say something about polling. I have to say about polls, don't I? The neo-democrats whose polls make their first move, believe them. Lefters say they're made. I asked some of my old meetings at the beginning of the four-year period from Tsipras to make an independent audit authority. That is, before a newspaper or channel publishes the results of a poll, the findings to check on them to the independent authority. Tsipras lied to me three times. He didn't do anything. And that's where I realized that chaos is interested in continuing. Because he says to you: 'I will lose today, I will win again tomorrow'. That's how the two parties do it. They don't want to make democracy. He says to you: "I don't care, let me lose now, I undermine the other one who's coming and willingly I'm coming next, with the ball or one or the other." But at some point the ball may stop and it's too close at this time. It can stop the ball and not be either one or the other and not be either one or the other. And there's some Centro Association that won't give Mitsotakis or Tsipras either. If the 11 points of the Centro Association are not accepted and, first of all, the referendum on Macedonia is held, do not you call me. Tell your leader that if he doesn't like a referendum on Macedonia, the people should talk again, don't call me back. The people who spoke to Skopje had no right to speak to Greece. Let Mitsotakis know that the members of the Centro Association who will enter do not give anyone unless there is a referendum to express the people. It's over and out. You should know that. All the gold in Greece to carry me, I don't give! The country was betrayed in the Prespes, and this must be corrected. Greece cannot live dishonestly. Because it's actually done. The Prespes disgraceed the country. That's it. And it's disgraceful to some of you to laugh! Shame on you if you're laughing! Because there's anesthesia except for all kinds of cavets! Hello, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u395	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-nine students and students and eleven attendants of educational guests in the framework of the "ERASMUS" program from the Spring High School. Thank you for visiting Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will invite Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group. You have 15 minutes, plus eight minutes, Mr. Theodorakis. We welcome you again in your capacity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u396	Thank you very much. I guess I'll be in 15 minutes. Watch out. US-China Trade War. Merkel-Macron collision for the successor of Juncker. What does the control of Istanbul mean to Erdogan? Maduro, Heilander. The first issue is 'TIMES' air pollution. "How can we breathe better in our cities" the title. First theme in the 'LIBERATION' war of theake news about education. As you can see, these are today's first pages of great European newspapers. Europe is a step ahead of the big decisions. Just three hundred and seventy-three hours before the European elections. So the debate somewhere else has begun. But there is also a corner of the world that all of this is of no importance, a corner with politicians who say Europeans, but attracted by Balkan and Oriental DNA. What did we live on Wednesday? And what are we obviously going to live tonight? Conflicts outside limits for its small politics and for things regardless of the struggles and needs of the Greeks. Conflicts that only aim to bring the party armies together and cover the dark aspects of power parties' politics. This is the old-fashioned recipe of the left-wing and right-wing parties: to rally the army, fantasize, go out on the streets to salute the leader's name and let us, as polls show, half society confused, disgusted and disgusting. But what are you trying to avoid? You are trying to keep society from dealing with the importants of the European elections and first of all who the Greeks must go to this new era of Europe, because that is the biggest question right now in all the countries of Europe. With Vebber, with Mr. Tsipras' left-wing comrades or Mr. McCrone? Mr Weber, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, categorically rejected the proposal for a European combating unemployment fund. He just stated again beforehand - take care - of taxing carbon dioxide emissions, identified with Trump. It does not want a Marshall Plan for Africa, in order to give young Africans other choices than to emigrate to Europe - as some valid commentators have written, "a outdated right acting like a dinosaur". And then it is Mr Tsipras' proposal for Europe. Really, what is your proposal for Europe? What's your proposal? I would very much like to know her. Who are you with? Pablo or Pedro? What happened to Podemos? Are you still with Sarah in Germany asking the Greeks to leave the Eurozone? And France? With Melanson? With the leftists you hugged in 2015? Ladies and gentlemen, Europe has a clear proposal in front of it. It is the proposal of the European Renaissance of Emmanuel Macron, rebirth for freedom, protection, progress. The only solution for Europe is not to give up either the conservatives or the populists. And in an effort to rebirth now, after a bold decision, Ferhofstadt and the liberals are involved. In this struggle for the European elections, the Potami for a Europe with a single defence doctrine, with uniform asylum rules, with the Eurozone Minister for Finance, who will support the investment of small and medium-sized enterprises, with a tax on multinational colossals, with European rules for the protection of citizens from make news and radical measures to protect the environment, so as to say more briefly, to create the United States of Europe. So Greece needs a dynamic debate, it needs controversy, it needs a conflict of opinion and ideas, but you, SYRIZA and New Democracy, are in favour of an election blackout. For three days now in the House you want to talk about the barons - you say - of the Mitsotakis family, about the work of Father Tsipras and about the barbarisms of Mr Polakis. And let's say we've fallen into the trap and participated in this curse, and we're talking again about the same issues, what would the citizen gain? Potami, therefore, does not participate and will not contribute to this plight. The title is ‘ESTIA’. I don't know if you read it. "Well, it's not possible," said this traditional newspaper of the Right. So we will not be offended by the 'polluterism' virus too. The title is "KATHMERINI", which emphatically notes: "No one wants to remember Wednesday's debate in the House". We are therefore asking both Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis to take the tone down and not in the name of a consolation. We're asking why other things are the urgent things we need to discuss. Europe, the big agenda - I told you my first thoughts - and Greek-Turkish - the next urgent matter. I would like to ask a question if he can be answered by the Chiefs afterwards. Are we going to make a debate? We're here in whatever terms, in whatever ways. We call on the journalists to take the initiative and organise the debates they want. All together, two-two, three-three? To discuss the most important European elections we have before us. Yesterday morning, ladies and gentlemen, at a critical time, with Turkey escalating provocative surprises in the Aegean, in the south-eastern Mediterranean, I went to Tanagra, in the Greek Defence Industry. I went with the President of the Values, Admiral Fenecco, our ally on the River. Do you know that Turkey has developed a model and dynamic defence industry that now allows it to be almost self-sufficient and confidently looking at the future? So I went to EAB, and what did I see? A tired system, without political guidance, with the few skilled staff, with despaired workers, who are commenting at 3 p.m. because overtime will not be paid if they stay over 15 p.m., while at the same time F-16, the C-130, fire-fighting aircraft still - still do tails to be repaired and upgraded. I also saw the first packaged P3 waiting for it, how and how the Navy. I will not say, and I hope you understand the reasons, more about our weaknesses. I will say, however, that the country urgently needs a modern defence industry. There must be a central project, and not the Ministry of Development, or the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of Defence, which must be given life in a dynamic and profitable defence industry, with modern management, public and private funds and with new production lines and customers waiting from many countries in our wider region, who now want to get a number of priorities for the modernisation of their military aircraft and are disappointed and many of them end up in Turkey. The Turkish threats, therefore, are not dealt with by communications, they require actions. But the determination to guard our borders, the defence of our national rights in the Aegean, should be combined with the maintenance of open dialogue between Europe and Turkey. And this defended the Potami with the grammatician and the Kurdish in the European Parliament. It is hypocritical for us to demand Europe's populist and conservatives - among them Mr Weber - that the accession negotiations with Turkey stop, while their countries sell arms and invest hundreds of millions of millions of dollars in modernising the industry in Turkey. So these are the important issues that we should only discuss a few days before the European elections. Obviously it is the economy, which I imagine will be discussing next week on the basis of your benefits. Is that what we call it? Benefits? You don't?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u397	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u398	Election gifts? Anyway, 15 days before the European elections we remembered this, but we will be discussing all this next week. As to the vote of confidence now, I do not think you have any questions, we are again voting against the government. We are confronted with SYRIZA's practicing practices, as are the ministers of the past who have only concern for the reconversion of power. So what do we ask of the citizens? We ask them to be angry. As Gandhi said, there's another anger and we shouldn't be ashamed of ourselves. If it's not toxic anger, there's another anger that becomes a strong motive. We should avoid falling victim to anger toxicity. It is wrong that way of expression, but there is also the anger that can be used for good purposes. Anger for humans can become power to discover new things. We are therefore telling the citizens that they must be mad at the situation they are experiencing. They must be angry and vote for those who never fooled them. That's my message. To find solutions and not to return to the same mistakes. Strengthen those citizens who do not play roles in politics, those who do not go into this disgrace for the sharing of chairs that we have been living in the last few days, those who do not have skeletons in their wardrobe, those who are themselves, obviously by mistakes, obviously with weaknesses, but with a life-saving attitude that proves to have the right hierarchy of values and goals. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] My appreciation, ladies and gentlemen, is that the problem faced by Greece - and it is not my own assessment, it is very old - is not an economic one, it is a purely political problem. It is the political system that has led her to bankruptcy. The political system is the one that pushed it further into the crisis in 2015. And the political system is today that I constantly mix old-fashioned recipes and solutions outdated, because it seems that the new regime, like the old regime, is not capable of pulling the country forward, putting it in the centre of Europe and finally converging the other European countries with a collective effort, with a concrete plan, with a hierarchy of problems, with solutions, many of which are self-evident and visible, but require conflicts with trades, interests and, above all, established attitudes. But this is the only way out of the country, or it will return to the worst. So Potami and the renewed parliamentary group of our movement are fighting and will continue to fight for the regeneration of politics, for the regeneration of Greece, for the regeneration of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. I call on the Step for his denunciation, Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos, an Independent MEP, who is in charge of the Independent Greeks. Here, you have the floor for eight minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be much shorter because, unfortunately, we had scheduled a central speech in Portugal today, and I would also ask the Bureau and colleagues to give our vote and the letter to count by refusing to give a vote of confidence to the government. Mr President, I was on a tour yesterday in the area of Laconia, Sparta, Molaus, Monemvasia, and I spoke with several citizens of independent political space. I really met their disappointment at the level of the debate that is taking place these days in the Greek Parliament, the disappointment that Greek citizens feel about the expressions that have been heard here, about the exchanges of personal controversy and uproots at a time of great importance for our country, at a time when the country is being provoked by Turkey by constant violations and violations, at a time when Turkey is threatening to invade the Cypriot EEZ by sending drillers, who are not only insulting the Cypriot EEZ but also the European EEZ. And we would expect here to talk about Europe, about Europe of defence, about Europe of the common foreign policy, about Europe of solidarity. Greek citizens would expect a consensus of the political forces, at least one support for the Armed Forces. And it would be much more useful than this debate to have a debate that will come out of a joint communiqué from all parties in relation to the challenges that the nation accepts in both Greece and Cyprus, as well as a joint communication that will not stop the democratic debate and the differences in parties and political differences. We have international public opinion and international organisations in support, of course, of course verbally supported and I mean the European Union through Mrs Mogerini, and Mr Junker. Because, if there was a European defence, European countries' vessels should now be directed towards the south-eastern Mediterranean to protect the European EEZ. This article, which provides for a common European defence, should be energised in the event that a European country such as Cyprus is threatened, because Turkey's communication is a threat. So there should be a meeting at the Ministry of National Defence, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the presence of the two ministers and Prime Minister and the leaders of the parties, and a joint announcement from all the parties, in order to get these procedures activated both in NATO and in the European Union and in the United Nations, which I fear we will be forced to do so in the next few days. So the title of the debate these three days on the vote of confidence and the motion of censure against the government reminded me of many years ago in this Chamber of a historic MP, a patriotic MP elected with PASOK at that time, Dimitrios Fokionas Vunascos, MP Lesvos, Lemnos, as he said, Imbros and Tenedos, who used the Bost lyrics in the famous poem 'The island of the Azores', because everything was discussed here but the one that should be requested. We heard about lowering, we heard about each other's anti-digit or not's past. I would remind you that this poem was banned, because the colonists believed it, says Bost wrote it then, and Theodorakis meddled it, and Bithikotsis sang it as resistance to the exile islands. So he said in the third verse: "And later they approached two horns, a vapour came, in vain looking to find the young and the daughter." However, the Greek people are looking to find the debate here, the debate on Europe, and they are looking to find the debate with the political positions of each party. They are looking to find out why the Civic Opposition of the Government is ambiguous, what political reasons and why the government is asking for the Greek people's vote of confidence. None of this has been heard, and the Greek citizen must take this seriously, when he votes on the European elections on the 26th day of the month. It will not vote for the national elections, it will not vote for the government of the country, but it must give an answer, a political response concerning Europe, but also a response for each party internally. Does the voters of SYRIZA approve the royal components? Does the voter of SYRIZA approve of candidates such as Mr Petros Kokalis, a representative of two companies supplying the Greek State? Has the voter of the New Democracy judged Mr. Ceridis, Mr. Psarianos or Mr. Tatsopoulos? These should be taken into account by the Greek citizen when he votes. We will not vote for the government, clearly because we do not believe that this government has political legitimacy. He has ceased to have political legitimacy when he purchased MPs against ministerial men, and has ceased to have this legitimacy when he effectively violated the Constitution. It is clear, however, that the results of the government policy of the four years, which are due to the attitude of the Independent Greeks and their firm position in the government, must give to the Prime Minister's "we" and a piece of the Independent Greeks, because the Greeks are indeed released quite after the measures they have suffered over the years. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by making a brief statement from Mr Kotzias from the Step of the House, by saying that the e-mail I made here in Parliament is an e-mail that his friends told him that they had been intercepted by either the National Information Service or the Chinese or Russian services. The first is obvious that I am pleased that Mr Kotzias accepts publicly through the Step of the House that these e-mails are truly, truly and undeniably. It is an e-mail indeed, which shows how he set up the contest at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And these e-mails are e-mails that you shouldn't be looking for if he intercepted them. National Intelligence doesn't intercept American servers. It has a responsibility to protect the culture and, if these e-mails had been taken into account, it could well have been sent to the prosecutor in order to investigate a minister who has a service party to discuss with the companies that will take the competition later, with a parent company. Secondly, as far as his information on American servers is concerned, I would like to say to him that there are no longer any more. We do not live in the era of friends of STAZI, when Mr Kotzias wrote texts nor the Chinese secret services have reached this point. He should probably look into the State Department and see why his name is Suslov or Beria. He should look for why some honest officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs arrived "until here", which the Greek people say, looking at the manners to make a competition with a participating company. And at some point it must be said why Mr Xydakis, who is here today, was released from Minister Xydakis when he asked for proof of how he would open the eighty offices in Russia or the former Deputy Minister of Finance, or Mr George Tsipras, when he was in conflict with Mr Kotzias. But I believe that, in the process that started in justice, it will prove all this and eventually it will seem what the role and what services were that were involved. I guess Mr. Kotzias has been lured from his existing PRATO, as former Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose internet conversation was released with nine international arrest warrants, agent in Copenhagen, asking him for information on Kammenos, a person allegedly cooperating with MIT or with Skopje information services, with whom he was in close contact. This government, therefore, is not the government that was formed in 2015, a government of national unity. It became a government of apostasy and has the tolerance of MPs elected with other parties, they ended up in other parties against their chair and are here proud. They keep the seats as an eye daughter and preserve them, collecting the parliamentary allowance, while they have never been elected, and they do not deliver them. They continue to provoke the Greek people, changing ovarian positions. I'm telling you, Mr. Quick, where you're looking at me. And from Grammos and Vitsi they worship the Belogan's memory, and later we'll see them in the Red Square. And, of course, it is a government which committed the tragic crime in voting for the Ambassadors' Agreement, an agreement on unconstitutional, nullity, an agreement which we must commit here to those who oppose, if we are indeed opposed, that we shall abolish it because it has even violated its own conditions. He never got a majority in the referendum in Skopje. It does not even bear the signature of the President of the Republic of Skopje and has been violated and violated every day, because this state continues to use the word 'Macedonia', effectively overcoming the treaty itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u401	Ladies and gentlemen, at noon when the Secretary of the Communist Party of Greece had spoken, I had said and written in the Minutes and had obtained the permission, the decision of this House on this matter, because of today's debate, which we will finish - I hope - three hours before what we said and because the two parties, the KIC and the Independent Greeks, have central events in one hour from now, to count the vote of the present. He had been accepted for Mr. Pafile and Mr. Koutsouba during the service. I would ask you to tell us, too, if you give a vote of confidence to the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u405	Mr. Katsikis, who is missing, will send a letter that will not be counted. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-three students and students and five teachers from the 13th Municipal School of Ioannina. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u406	I've been calling to Stepma Mr. Nicholas Michaloliaco since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u407	We always go together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u408	That's where you're going to talk? I'm calling to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u409	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Theodorakis said earlier that, in view of the major national issues, there should be a debate among the parties' leaders. And of course, of all these procedures for the glory of your "democracy" - within many introductorys - Golden Dawn is blocked. But Mr. Theodorakis with me has debated the "Protagonists", with 52% spectacularly, the biggest he had ever received a political show that year. That is why you have ruled out Golden Dawn TV stations. And of course he said in his speech that Greek voters should be angry to vote and vote with that anger. Has he not realised that those who have been angry since 2012 still vote and vote Golden Dawn? [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And it was May 6, 2012. You were floating in all the channels of the intercom, the longings with the knees and the chicken opiate. The Golden Dawn at 7%! And there were new elections, and you said it was an occasional one, that Golden Dawn would end. And all parties lost except for Golden Dawn. The JRC had got 8.5% and dropped to 4.5%. The Independent Greeks took almost 11% and fell to 7.5%. Everyone fell apart from the Golden Dawn. And then there was a lot of facts, a lot of persecution, imprisonment, blockades, and you said it was nothing, it would pass. And it has been seven years and the Golden Dawn is here and will be here, representing hundreds of thousands of Greeks. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] To vote against the political system, Mr Theodorakis said. Yes, I agree. Only against the political system is just a party, what you don't see on the channels, what you don't see in newspapers, what you've ruled out all parties in here. And this party, the only consistent antisystemic party, the only people's movement after the Transmigration - as former Minister of Government said - is Golden Dawn. We have listened carefully, of course, to Mr Kammenos's complaints about Mr Kotzia. I seriously doubt that there is a conflict between the Government and Mr Kammenos. Because, if there were, there could be evidence that would literally overthrow the political establishment. And that certainly didn't happen. Mr Kammenos said a lot about Kotzia's relations with Soros today and earlier with the communist regime. But Mr Kammenos knew these things and he remembered them a little late. I would also like, Madam President, to present the letter from our Member, Mr Rabbit, who is absent for political gathering and who will also vote against the government. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] His vote could have been counted - he had a telephone call with Mr. Voutsi - but that was not accepted. For us, it has not been badly accepted since it was accepted for other Members. But we know that very well. You are well-intentioned, you are the constitutional arc, the democratic arc, you who ruled the country forty-five years and plunged it. It's you! And against you, against the party of political parties, another power, the Golden Dawn. And only yesterday we had new episodes of anarcho-communists, which within the center of Athens - where there is a multitude of surveillance cameras - broke out shops and arrests, because they are parastaters, because they are petty children of your own. And Mr Mitsotakis said that, if there is a government, that will not happen. We've heard of it before. And the same and worse it was when New Democracy was government and you said that you would close the 'indymedia' and you did not close anything, just words. And I also received no answer from anyone, neither on behalf of the leadership of the New Democracy nor by a mere MEP, about what provocatively challengingly Cairides has said. He has said that we are children of the Ottomans, that Makedonski and Greek are artificial nations. For all this, I didn't hear anything. But it's not just Courides. He is another candidate MEP of New Democracy, Eleftheriadis, who said that he does not mind being called Skopje - in the past - Macedonia. You go to the European elections with Eleftheriadis and Catherides. And since, on the occasion of some articles, the matter of the gold dawn finances has come to the surface, it is really worth admiring how courageous the political establishment has. The only party that does not owe 1 euro to a bank, the only party that does not receive funding, say that it has black funds, while it has been checked more than ten times by independent sworn accountants of the House! You should be ashamed of yourself. But you're not ashamed of an opportunity to give me a chance to remind you that the Left against us accused us of being financed by the shipowners. Finally, we were financed by the shipowners, you were going for a walk with your horns, as of course they were walking around with the heaviest and prominent executives in the past of PASOK. And the PASOK also has this to say against the Golden Dawn on transparency issues, the party of Tsohazopoulou, Papantoniou, Tsukatos, Mandeli and then follow up. And with regard to the delay of the trial on the Golden Dawn - which you say we have made a conspiracy allegedly with SYRIZA fighting us in the worst anti-democratic way - to present in the Minutes a report on the delays of the major trials, including the question of the intercepts, which began in 2005 with the murder of Tsalidis. And the trial hasn't even started fourteen years later. The fourteen years don't bother you, for the six years of Golden Dawn you see conspiracy and delay. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And why are you fighting? You'll be government when the Golden Dawn ruling comes out. If you intervene in justice, it will be what you want. You will condemn us. Or are you afraid that, being innocent and victims of political construction, you cannot condemn us and then immediately a large part of the Greek people will stand on our side? [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I still do not want to omit the case of the 'SIEMENS' trial, which concerns the entire political establishment and the left. It started on universality, when you gave the contract to "SIEMENS", which the late Kefaloyannis resigned from the Mitsotakis government and said: "I can't sign such a scandal." You were all together in 'Siemens'. And, of course, in 2008, Tsukatos confessed for 1 million and yet the ‘SIEMENS’ case is not over. A big dispute between KKE and SYRIZA about who's the most communist. Others are on the dough, others sell their TV station to offshore company. So don't collide so hard, because you're both communists. What is true is that, politically and ideologically, Greece has become Europe's last Soviet. And that was with the tolerance of the liberals, who left the state in the hands of the left in universities, press, art, intellectuals, literature, etc. The New Democracy's responsibilities are high, and it is not enough to say that 'we honor the struggles on the left'. Honestly honor the left fights away from the right. Right for you, it's over. The Right has representation, the Golden Dawn, the Greeks' national party! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] On the issue of Macedonia, the New Democracy has formally agreed to respect the Ambassadors' Agreement. Those who do not want to respect the Embassy Agreement do not want to vote for the New Democracy. Let's go for European elections. We are fighting for a Europe of nationalists. We will give assistance to all national forces from France, Italy, Austria, Germany, Belgium, everywhere, who will strive to overthrow the dictatorship of the loan sharks in Brussels. And as far as this government is concerned, of course, we have to say - and I conclude - that it is a minority government for too long, that it is a sign of political inestimableness that it has still not announced elections, that it is maintained with a majority of them at the moment in power and that the Golden Dawn will strive to fall as soon as possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u410	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u411	Mr Kotzias, SYRIZA Member of State, is asking for the floor on personal grounds. Mr. Kotzia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u412	First of all, Mr Kammenos speaks for an hour, and for the second time without the Rules on the Non-Government and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure he is not a party leader.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u413	Ex-government is scheduled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u415	You know that. Mr. Venizelos, Mrs. Papapega, etc. is also speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u416	Mr. Koutsubas gave up his first speech. Secondly, he has come back here to do something he has been doing for ten months, that is to say threatening and blackmailing with lies and slander. Let him finally accept my message to go to the courts, because as a citizen of this place I have no other way. Mr. Kammenos also lied. I did not say whether it was legal or not the e-mail he presented. I said that these e-mails, which he presented, are from the security server of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which I have already destroyed and destroyed. He escaped with the hands of honest diplomats, looking at them one by one. It's a server American, it's a server where it has nothing to do with either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the former Minister of Foreign Affairs or the current. It's a server that needs help with secret service hackers. I repeat, Mr Kammenos has to choose - I will not make the choice - whether he uses false documents or has committed the crime of interception. Also, Mr. Kammenos put one of his acquaintances on the phone, it seems, to call the then Director General from Presidential Hellenism, who told him "I have papers from Kammenos". And then they show him on the Internet that Mr. Red was looking for him falsely. Thirdly, Mr Kammenos shows that there is a wide difference between the concession agreement and the work of the visa competition company. I have never determined the amount, to be clear, and not in a concession agreement, is particularly specified for visas. The definition was made by the Court of Auditors and by the Council of State, for one single purpose, what a guarantee letter the companies must deposit. And he's been coming for six months and he says I'm cheating on the public with the amount that the Greek supreme courts put in the bail letters. And finally, Mr Kammenos is always trying to represent officials of another place that they coexist with him in this crime of extortion, slander and so on. They owe these two members - George Tsipras for the third time in public - to take a public position. Do they work with him in this slandering work or, as I do, have nothing to do with it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u417	Thank you. I call on Mrs Fotini Gennimata, the President of the Democratic Independence Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u418	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really want to believe that with their speeches Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis will return to Parliament today. A lot of damage was done. It was a big blow to parliamentarianism. This Wednesday's massacre revealed the decline in its entire extent. This debate began as a reproach against a Minister and was turned, as we have all lived and talked with too many Greek citizens these days, in reproach against the two so-called gladiators. Motion in poison, toxic speech, mud, cohort fight, personal conflict. And the concept of family responsibility. Emphasis on the involvement of people who have left life, on the involvement of families and personal data without even caring about the impact they have on their children, who have awkwardly watch their lives falsified in handkerchiefs. Motion to exaggerations and free magic. Modification to analgesia, hypocrisy, cynicism, the characterisation of disabled persons as gauzes. Moment, of course, also on the empty seats of the House when the opposition is speaking and on the Bureau, which is unfortunately involved and facilitates all this. Indulge in the indifference of what this people are really going through today. Modification to your idea that something will finally be bitten by this bad-looking show and your secret thought that from all this deception of politics something will be taken by fascists to smuggle the Change Movement, which neither one of you wants at his feet. All this, of course, will fall into the void. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] We have not followed you and we are not going to do this because we have another concept of politics. We have another attitude of life in total. That's how we learned. We have learned things differently, with other policy content, with, in essence, work with effectiveness, with opponents in politics and not enemies. We have never sought the personal extermination of our political opponents. These are policies on the right of the past, which the new right of SYRIZA is now literally copying and applying. Those in Greece who did not know, ladies and gentlemen, understood why Greece still lives in the crisis despite the sacrifices of the Greek people over the years, while all the other countries that had problems of this kind have left them behind. But they also understood one more thing: While Mr Erdogan and his ministers escalate our challenges, Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis did not find a word to say to send a message of national unity and determination to defend our national rights, a message of national unity. Blinded, you see, from their personal ambition and vanity, they can't see reality and feel what people and homeland need. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tsipras with his choices, with his policy, evolved into a great donor of the right at the place. Where would New Democracy be today if SYRIZA hadn't been? It's not that SYRIZA left. It's not a blind subjection to austerity on the left. It's not on the left the charity of benefits. It's not left with the arrogance of power. The Left cares about the many, not the Poles! Mr. Tsipras has once again appeared as an antimonetary, except that the sequel of this film doesn't cut tickets this time. We heard him say he stood up against Europe. I really wonder where and when all this happened. When he signed the third and most important memorial? When he committed himself to overcomplexes and comitology? When he handed over the national wealth of pledge to the lenders for ninety-nine years? When he accepted foreigners to the administrations of the Greek banks? When he agreed to measures to weaken the middle class and the economically weaker ones? When she agreed to make Mrs. Merkel's favour turn our islands into soul storerooms? Or when he willingly accepted to hand over Macedonian nationality and language to the Prespes to accept friendly back blows by the powerful? However, we welcome him in his late statement on the responsibilities of the New Democracy Government for the crisis and the memorials, with his public recognition after so many years that the 2009 deficit had exceeded 15%. But to see when he will recognize his own responsibilities for what he said and did in the squares of the indignant along with the Golden Dawn. Yesterday Mr. Tsipras also accused the first memorandum of inhumanity. Do you know what the comeco-trag is? That the ministerial seats applauded him with passion for his ministers, three of whom participated in the government that brought this first Memorandum. Hey, what do you think? [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Mr Tsipras now appears on the eve of the election to announce election allowances. He's signing uncovered checks post-dated. The citizens have suffered the extermination measures, particularly the middle class that has broken it down, and it is obvious that they need every euro that returns them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u420	But no one forgets that ten took them, one returns them. Well, no one eats spoon in Greece. They know, let's say, that the pensioners removed them from their twelfth pension with increased contributions to health, the burden on medicines, the abolition of the CSCE. So it does not convince anyone when he says that he is supposed to give a third pension, that is, this European election allowance that will be vaporised at the beginning of next year, when the tax that he agreed and voted for will apply. They also know, of course, that the professionals and citizens that he put VAT on the focus from 13% to 24%, and now he comes and shows it as his amazing achievement, that he returns to the former regime. The citizens are well aware of the collapse of the welfare state in their daily lives, that hospitals are in red right now. Health workers have fallen by about nine and a half thousand. Not much advertised TOMY in primary health care have failed with flaw. It's a huge problem in primary right now in the country. What can I say about the medicine? The amnesia of the ministers of Mr. Tsipras and the omission of the issue of drug prices in 2015 cost the public about 340,000,000 euros. Of course, no control can be carried out during Mr Tsipras' time. The citizens are well aware of the disorganization of public education and the ideological experiments carried out by the Minister responsible on the back of their children and families. They know that SYRIZA tolerates the violence of hoodiers, those who destroy and threaten to put pressure on even terrorists. They know that SYRIZA is incapable of negotiating a change in the target for primary surpluses and in order to be able to share these uncovered cheques with the surpluses, that is to say, the money that has been bleededed from the Greek people so far. These are the real works and days of the government on the basis of the reality that Mr Tsipras asked us to judge him. That's who you were, so many of you were, and that's where you could. The debate is clearly reproached for your things. For his part, of course, Mr. Mitsotakis found the opportunity to play his role as the other side of the bipartisan campus. But what they both finally managed is to reveal the two sides of the maintenance that keep the country established. Mr Mitsotakis again did not say about his responsibilities for derailing the economy in 2004-2009. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] We don't expect him to say, we know. Of course, he did not say anything about the collapsing of public money, the mismanagement of public finances, the party of pharmaceutical expenditure, the expansion of the deficit and, of course, he did not say anything about the New Democracy's responsibility for the populism of the "Zaphoria" - and here SYRIZA copys them - for the blind refusal of the New Democracy to put back on the first, the very critical years of the crisis, when Greece was with one leg in hell and right was pushing it even further towards the abyss. Mr. Mitsotakis is trying to hide that he's walking in the footsteps of his right yesterday. He says his party is deeply populist and, on the other hand, his policy promotes neoliberalism. Finally, one is, of course, faithful to distorting state and to the customer state. Mr Mitsotakis avoids the word'social state'. It tackles inequalities as if it were a natural phenomenon and all depends on market immunity. Of course, let us not forget, it supports Webber in Europe, that is, the essence of the deep maintenance that is responsible for the lasting austerity that currently dismantles Europe and opens the way to extreme right and nationalism. Ladies and gentlemen, this whole debate is particularly revealing. Obviously, no confidence in the government. But it is clear that the New Democracy is not a solution for tomorrow. Her policy leads precisely to the same deadlocks. I have said this many times, I will repeat it today, Mr. Tsipras is leaving, but there is no need for the steering wheel for the country anymore. We have drawn up another course, with an autonomous role and an autonomous strategy. We don't care about this Ping-Pong and it's tired of citizens too. The country is currently in need of a national team on the field. You still don't understand that? We hold the thread of national understanding firm, and we will insist on it. In this context, and after the sad image of the House on Wednesday, I propose something, I believe, that will also give Greeks a hope that the end of politics has not come to this place. I therefore propose, on Monday, that we vote together on the abolition of tax reductions, a support programme for young people starting their own business with tax relief and contributions, tax incentives for recruiting young people in the private sector, a programme to strengthen new couples for every young child born, because demographic is the biggest risk at the moment for our country, a lower pension at EUR 500 for the individual pensioner and 700 for the couple, a reduction in production costs for farmers and a refund of the tax rate to 13%. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] We all go together this Monday to give this message and the next one at last to the national elections, because, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with the commitments you have made, your hostile development policy, and your insistence on overtaxing many, not those who actually have great wealth, are not going to see. But for another reason, because I'm very afraid that even if tons fall today, then it's a matter of time for Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis to retreat, because very simply all of what we've lived on Wednesday is a conscious choice, it's part of their plan, because one thinks that he's gonna win self-resistance and the other thinks he's gonna hold some forces to manage his defeat. This is their priority, but the Greek people have another misery. The agony of all is how the country will return page. We therefore propose to the Greek people, in any case, the integrated Plan Greece, as a genuine Greek property plan, of genuine exit from the crisis, a proposal which can be the basis for this change of page. We will take a vote of confidence from the Greek people and will become the first Resurrection on May 26th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. The Minister for Economic Affairs Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u422	Ladies and gentlemen, as we arrive at 2021, all of us will have our favorite philhellions. Others will propose Ioannis - Gabriel Einardo, friend of Kapodistrias, another or another Lord Byron, another more back to Walo Lloyd George and others who have more cultural torque to Gil Dassen or Güder Grass who supported Greece in 2010. But I understand that from New Democracy to the philhellene panthethesis they want to put a new name, Manfred Weber, to honor him. Before we finish the press conference on Tuesday, Manfred Webber said the program we announced was irresponsible. Mr Mitsotakis wanted to say something more and said: 'The craps of Mr Tsakalotou'. The special education and the young teachers and teachers we now have to work as permanents are craps, Mr Mitsotakis? Is that what you're going to tell the disabled and the teachers who have not been permanent and worked for two months and then didn't work and then rework? The VAT on energy, which the whole of Europe is talking about energy poverty, will you say that it is a mess? For young workers who will now pay contributions to both employers and workers, a measure which is both developmental and social because it will grant permanent jobs, is a mess? But the most interesting in Mr. Webber's post was the second part. Mr. Theodorakis said so too. He said that because there are fools - and there are not only in Greece for Manfred Webber, but also in Spain, Italy and France - we must not have a European stabilising system that faces regional inequalities. The left, perhaps the democrats, the Greens support it. What do you think? How do you imagine that in the next ten years there will be convergence in the south with the North and why do you not support it? Because the European People's Party supports austerity, it is consistently supported in the last ten years, even after the crisis. What exactly are you going to tell the Greek people about the European elections? "Support us to support austerity in Europe"? "Support us to support the European People's Party, even though we disagree with the austerity and position of the European People's Party"? We must have your position on what you say about Europe, or how you imagine that inequalities will be reduced. And since we're talking about austerity, let's talk about the middle layers again. I have told you the numbers, how much the income of the middle classes decreased in the years 2012-2014. It depends on what we see as the middle class - more rich than 25% and even richer 50% - but it varies, anyway, between EUR 3,500 and 6,000 a year. We increased them very little, but we didn't destroy them. Equality and middle-class, however, is a European issue. Why do you think Mr. Webber's party, the CSU, lost 10.5% in the October 2018 elections and the AfD, the extreme right, won 10.2%? What is your analysis that in France the Republicans lost 12% and reached 15%? Why do you think the Spanish people's party took 16% in the recent elections, the lower percentage of its history? The answer is neoliberalism and austerity. Mr Venizelos, in a previous debate two or three hours ago, told us that there is no neoliberalism. But no one supports neoliberalism. And because I'm at the empirical school of Marxism, I thought I'd do an investigation. I went out of the Chamber and accidentally - it seems my fate - I saw Mr Vorides and asked him: 'If I buy you three whiskeys, are you ready to say 'I renounce neoliberalism'? And he said to me, "Never drinks, we are neoliberal." Good for you and good for you not to buy. You honestly said you were with neoliberalism! Get back to the point. But why are middle classes all over the place? First of all, they're weighed on income. In Italy over the past twenty years, medium-income, the income of middle people has not increased at all. In Germany from 1995 to 2015, the share of middle classes has fallen by 10 percentage points. ILO adds this to the fact that there are no collective agreements and that the trade unions are weaker and because of the deregulation in the product market. And I keep going. The problem of middle classes in Europe is a matter of housing and housing, that is, the OECD says that in all OECD countries the middle classes, while spending a quarter of their income on the home, are now spending a third. It is also the nature of jobs, as good work for middle classes is shrinking and middle classes are afraid that their children will have even worse jobs. And what happens is that middle classes no longer can make savings. In France over 50% of people cannot save even 50 euros a month. That's why they're nervous, that's why they're afraid of middle layers, that's why extreme right is increasing, that's why populism is increasing. Because we get to a pure capitalism where workers spend what they do and capitalists get what they spend. In other words, workers and middle-stages are entirely dependent on income, they have nothing on the edge, and capitalists are investing it. What's the conclusion? That the number one problem of societies in Europe is inequality, in America, Europe, in Greece. But why do the left-wings have this misery about inequality? It's not just economic, it's political. Because those with a lot of money can turn their income into political power, they can control the media, they can be financed by the large groups. In America, the IRS budget has been reduced by 14% in recent years. However, the reduction in controls did not take place proportionately. The low-voltage controls have been reduced very little, on the grounds that they are receiving allowances and they must continue to be controlled, while the reduction of controls on high-income incomes has fallen to 1/3. So to tackle inequality, it's not just a matter of the poor, not of the socially excluded, not of the unemployed, but of the middle class. That is why we have had a plan since 2017 how to deal with this. That's why the Left has to put inequality as a central issue, as Pedro Sanchez put it. That's what made a central issue. He did more than that, Mr. Kutsuko. He went against his party with those who wanted to go with the Right to go down with the Left. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's what Pedro Sancheth did so he could breathe, and what did you do? You pushed out the river, kicked out DMAR, so you could make an alliance with your comrades from here on the right. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Left is no longer blocked. We feel as isolated as the 15-year-old Swedeza Greta Tunberg, after her intervention for climate change, which shocked the world, where she accused politicians of not taking climate change seriously, not as a young man, not as a Swedish citizen, but as a citizen of this world. He said that the rich in the North are doing the damage, and the poor in the South, Bangladesh and Africa, will pay for climate change. We're so isolated. How do we place ourselves on the issue of inequality? Drawing, documentation, alliances. First we came out on the markets in July 2017, then we closed the last evaluation and got out of the program, then we didn't reduce pensions, then we had the first expansion budget and then the collective agreements returned and the minimum wage increased. We are now in 2019, which, as we promised, instead of waiting for the end of the year to give a social dividend, we spend it in advance, because we have the power to do so with permanent measures, which you will all vote on from Monday and Tuesday. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is why we are ready to reduce austerity from now on, by reducing precisely the big target, 3.5%. That is why we announced a package of 1% of GDP. We did not expect to build our credibility to do that and convince them. We built our credibility and we do it now. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's why we put the special account, and that's why we announced these measures. It is not just a matter of time, however, that we are doing so now, it is also a qualitative difference. Because this reduction did not make it through an exchange of neoliberal measures, so that Mr Mitsotakis can say: 'Take cuts to the state, to health and education, and give us 3.5% to be 2.5%'. We did it now. Mr Mitsotakis tells us to vote for us, so that we can be part of the biggest block in the European Parliament, the European People's Party. Are you not telling me, in 2012-2014, which was the biggest block in the European People's Party in the European Parliament, how did they help you? So how much would the income of 24% would have fallen if you did not have the support of the European People's Party? Where would that GDP have gone, so we could know? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And can you tell me once how you're going to fund your programme? Because we also have funding for what we have announced. That's why we have credibility. And as Mr Drasakis' language is tired of saying, this budgetary policy is a small part of our plan. The difference between us is that our development policy can be found from the website of the Ministry of Finance. You can see exactly what we will do to make justice quicker. You can see exactly what we will do for the public administration, so that it is not customer-friendly and serves the citizen. You can see exactly what we will do to have an environment for investment. We do not have to have conversations in general. Place in this program.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u423	Say, the site...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u424	Get on the site and you'll see, Mr. Bourra. Ladies and gentlemen, finally, I would like to say that what Mr Mitsotakis said about the Prime Minister and the junta has made me very sad. I was very upset because I think that neither Mr Tsipras nor Mr Mitsotakis deserves it. But I won't keep talking about it. After all, when we have the party before us - a self-government champion, I don't have to say a lot of words. But I will say something about the proposal that Paulakis is Tsipras and Tsipras is Paulakis. You do not understand - and this is your great weakness - that neither Tsipras nor Paulis is SYRIZA. Neither Chaakalot nor Drasakis. Neither Papadimoulis nor Panos Lambrou. Neither Mustafa nor Blondie. Neither the Ahchioglu nor the Xenogiannakopoulou. Because we're a collective. You can't understand that. We're neither Tsipras nor Tsakalotus. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Nothing that the negotiating team did could do without the support of Alexis Tsipras. Nothing that Alexis did, which the negotiating team did, could not do without our parliamentary group. Nothing could be done by the Parliamentary Group and Tsipras and the negotiating team without the tens of thousands of systolics who supported us in the stone days, when we were at 3% and in 2015 and 2016 and 2017. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's why you're impossible. Why do you not understand from either collective or collective that has social references, a collective that from morning to night is concerned about society, about the people of labor, about the middle layers. You're impossible because you'll never understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u425	Thank you. I call to Stepma the Chief of Staff Response and President of the New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u426	You have shown leadership today, Mr Chakalote, in the absence of the Prime Minister. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And perhaps the need to report on the 3% of symbiosis, which form the basis, the core of the party, is a projection from the future, to which you will return very soon. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, I must say, Mr Chakatte, that I am always happy to hear you. I believe that we can make a real controversy together. I shall then return to some of the points you have raised. I'll just tell you one thing. We are not giving it to the left, Mr Tsakalote. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But at some point the economy must also create wealth. All you've done is recycle misery. But I will come back to them later. Ladies and gentlemen, a three-day debate is being concluded today, which has indeed had an interesting, revealing debate - I would say - and we have made progress, a debate in which we have seen, heard and learned a great deal. We have certainly learned that a government majority based on MPs who exchanged principles with chairs has unlimited tolerance to political behaviour that do not fit into a democracy, behaviours that would be unthinkable in a normal country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u427	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u428	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u429	Mr. Tragakis, please. You've been Vice President and you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u430	I wouldn't let go of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u431	Yeah. Please. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u432	That is why we tabled the motion of censure against Paul Paul Paul Paulakis. Mr Tsipras has rushed to turn this motion of censure into a proposal of confidence to change the subject. He thus fully identified his Government, all of you, with Mr Polakis, even though some will do so - I am sure - with great difficulty, but you are identified with the arrogant, aggressive and ultimately fascist behaviour of your Minister. We have reached an all-material controversy. It is true that the debate on Wednesday was excruciated. Everyone knows me, and everyone knows that's neither the moral nor my style. But Mr. Tsipras is wrong if he thinks that the courtesy, with which I choose to speak, is an expression of weakness. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I said this yesterday, and I say it again today: I will not accept any other vulgar references to my family. I will reply because public opinion must be accurately understood as to who the people involved in public life are. It would be nice for Mr. Tsipras to be more careful or rather personal, but also political consciousness, when he has the inspiration to answer with lyrics, because Anestis Anagnostakis, the son of the great poet on the left, said that the lyric that Mr. Tsipras referred the day before yesterday was written by his father for someone like you. I guess he knows something more. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am therefore returning to you, and indeed to its correct context. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I dedicate myself to you, too, a two-tier from another poem by Manolis Anagnostakis, by his poem "I fear": "I fear the people who are overtaken by the nest are now struggling to find stains in yours." That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u433	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u434	And now I will tell you what the other truths are that emerged from this debate. I really don't know how Mr. Chakalotos told us. I realized that Tsipras equals Paulakis, Paulakis equals Tsipras, SYRIZA means Tsipras, all together you are Paulakis. That is what we all understood from this debate. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now you're collectives. I don't know, Mr Tsakalotes, if you renounce through the concept of collective responsibility the concept of individual responsibility, but everyone here will take your own personal, individual responsibility with the choices you make. It was, however, the Prime Minister's choice to take us there, because he could at the outset ask his Minister to reconstruct, when he attacked a hero of life, to withdraw him to class when he reduced a worthy scientist with disabilities. He could still expel him. If he had, none of what happened last week would have happened. Always, ladies and gentlemen, sincere apologies are a sign of bravery and not of weakness, as I have had the courage to say publicly that we in the European Parliament have used specific photographs that are not true in public confrontation. He recognized it himself. He had the courage public to go out and apologize. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But Mr. Tsipras chose another way. He took the responsibility of covering Mr Polakis and even hiding him behind an entire party. This choice makes it difficult for its Members. It is those who are now called upon to swallow what they themselves have said from here even the Step for the Pole of Sports, which will be measured by their dignity and the dilemma set by Mr. Tsipras, "with Paulis to the end or power". They are the ones who will vote this evening if they belong to SYRIZA of the Polakis or to Greece of many. The Greek society sees and judges. Mr Tsipras went to generalize the debate and turned it into a vote of confidence because it was uncomfortable a debate on a motion of censure only for Mr Polakis. This, however, became a boomerang for the government. You know, the pressure seems to be the character of the protagonists and it turns out that there is courage in their souls. In the light of the revelations about Mr. Tsipras' holiday, Mr. Tsipras took out the Polakis that has inside him. He spoke in an unequivocal and unacceptable way of confronting political leaders. I never remember - and I have been watching the House for 15 years - even in troubled times no Prime Minister should speak with such style to any of his political opponents. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's one of SYRIZA's customs that he brought with him, and fortunately he's leaving with him. Mr. Tsipras, when you talk to me in this room, you don't hurt me. You're subduing your office. When I speak to you myself in the pluralist, I do not do it by courtesy, but because I respect both of us's institutional role and respect the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Even worse than the café designations, however, it was the completely unspeakable - it causes grief and embarrassment - your choice to call Stelios Kymbouropoulos "saving pot". Stelios answered simple and sober with seven words: "It is unfair what you said about me." Often the look is man himself. All this ruthless reaction to his face came because eventually Stelios asked for nothing but equal opportunities, but also because he must deeply disturb you that he was written with New Democracy and he is our candidate. So many mea culpa have been heard in this Chamber. Say one, not for us, but for Stelios. Really third: The debate on boats and holidays is not parapolitical gossip. It is a deep political debate and it is a policy for two reasons. The first is because the politician and, above all, the Prime Minister does not have a private life and the Prime Minister's holidays in a democracy must be publicly known. But since you told us that this matter was insignificant, why didn't you make it public? After all - the first demand for the progressive exercise of power in a democracy is transparency and accountability. Secondly, when you have had a career incriminating your political opponents for their relationship with the elites and it is revealed that you are taking a secret holiday in a very expensive, short-six weeks after Matty, you must, Mr. Tsipras, be prepared to suffer the consequences, let alone when there are reasonable suspicions of transaction. You still did not answer me if the Greek Government has indeed proposed Mrs Panagopoulos for "Immortal" to the International Olympic Committee. I told you in my denture the other day that what I am claiming is to be judged by the same measures and by the same standards. Moral superiority has by definition no side. That's your invention. And the Communist Party never claimed to have moral superiority. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The collapse of SYRIZA's supposed moral advantage is now a reality and is a great victory not only of the party I have the honour of leading, but also of those who have suffered for a long time this special ideological bowling that some, because they simply embrace some ideology, are better, are more moral, are superior to others. In fact, fourthly, I have spoken about 'pollism', which has become an official government dogma, as a form of fascism. And "Before a dilemma, you're voiced..." Mr. Paulakis himself came to justify me, saying, and I read from his speech: "I'm dangerous - look, it's the detail - for your own democracy, the one you've had years and the one you want to bring back, not the democracy of the people's needs." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, democracy is one. The constitution in which we have all sworn is one, is the same. And in Greek democracy we tolerate the different viewpoint, we respect the distinction of powers, we account for our things. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We do not threaten journalists that we will bury them three meters below the earth, nor hope to put in prison a bass and win elections, and above all we do not promote intolerance, division and hatred. The different versions of democracy have been the basis of most of history's totalitarian regimes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And by listening to Mr Polakis in the House, I repeat this today with even more certainty: we know where all this leads. They're totally fascist. You have one last chance to get, Mr Tsipras, today from what they have heard in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, these four truths that emerged from the debate lead to four obvious conclusions. I already said the first thing. The 'pollution' is officially established as the last stage of the cursory of Mr Tsipras. Secondly, a few days before the European elections the government has nothing to say about Europe. Once again, he has listened silently to our programme for the need for European border care, for new jobs, for the leverage of Community funds and how we will manage the resources of the new common agricultural policy, as well as for the issue that we have already opened, Mr Tsakalote, for smaller surpluses, which ultimately mean less taxes in Greece. And when I talked about 'bads', I made a very specific reference to how you confuse the primary surpluses with cash. You're an economist. You should know the difference between the two and not lead the Prime Minister to what he says. Mr Tsipras and you, after all, Mr Tsakalote - I can see that it is your tactic - you have regained yourself against Mr Manfred Weber. 'Manfred' is, Mr Tsipras, not 'Martin', as you said. But you didn't tell us - I guess you're going to do it sometime - who you want. You told us who you didn't want. Who doesn't want to tell us, Mr. Orban. He tells us he doesn't want Mr. Webber. But he doesn't tell us who he wants. You didn't tell us, Mr. Tsipras, who you wanted. Will you tell us at last? Is the question that we ask you so difficult? Who do you want for President of the European Commission? Who do you stand for? Why don't you tell us? Why do you keep it a seven-sealed secret? Do you have an answer or does your opportunism just lead you to such impotent tactics? Thirdly, SYRIZA has nothing to say about the country's future. Yesterday I spoke once again about our plan and described how I personally mean the progressive policy today and I would like to present a very interesting text in the Minutes of this House, which drafted sixty-four fellow citizens, prominent, serious, identifiable, who set a framework of great interest in what is really progressive today. I call on you, Mr Tsakalote, to read it carefully and happily as we go towards the end of this election period, this framework being the boulevard for a substantial ideological controversy. I'll personally welcome it. I am tabling the relevant text. Please give it to the Minister. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have explained and insisted on talking about my perception of a country that will rapidly increase national income, which will increase by private investment and create many new jobs. Yes, this is about the many, not the few, and from this point of view, the middle class and the weak will benefit as a whole. Mr Chakatte, I imagine that you have not been missed by our proposal, our view is that the minimum wage should be increased at twice the growth of GDP. I wonder whether this is a conservative or progressive proposal, and whether that is about the few or the many. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wonder whether the horizontal reduction of the ENPIA by 30% for all Greeks is also a proposal that concerns the few or the many. So let's talk about all this. Of course, if you remember, I also offered Mr Tsipras our impression on our government programme. There are ten sections in the government programme. But I would particularly like to refer to one, entitled 'I feel safe'. As we say, it is neither right-wing nor central policy to feel the citizen safe. It is a good choice, it is a necessary policy for citizens to feel truly free. Give it to Mr. Chakaloto. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There is no democracy without security. The bollock in the country has no precedent. And that's about a lot of people! I went today to visit the broken stores in Bucharest and Balaorit Street. And your minister had the nerve to say that I am the one that breaks the country. Do I break through the country or the jerks you let them out to make nail glasses? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You didn't just fool yourself, you didn't only humiliate yourself, you weren't just poor for the Greeks. You have made them hostage to the violence of the hoodmen. Everywhere. In shops, in universities, in their own homes, in the streets they walk. I consider, at least, misunderstood the study shown by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay to be public - take care - of her decision to investigate the case of not granting permission to the killer Koufontina. In the face of all this, I have not heard anything new, in addition to the prescription of twenty-nine new taxes, the constant bleeding, and, at some point, the benefit to some of our fellow citizens. You have all said that in the thirteenth place. It's not a third pension. You're lying again. It's an election allowance. You give it without being ashamed of yourself just before the election, and you manage to stop your crash.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u435	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u436	And I do not know, in fact, because Mr Chakalotos has made his own struggle - respected - from his side to his own to help recover the country's credibility abroad, if he really shares this policy or if this policy was not imposed on the grounds of Maximos. Because he knows very well that you don't exactly gain credibility on the markets when two weeks before you come and you share money. It is not this recipe for the country to gain credibility on the markets.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u437	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u438	The Greeks, especially the pensioners, are proud and decent. They're trained to demand and not beg, as Mr. Tsipras wants. Don't worry, they'll prove it in sixteen days. They happened to you and they found out. They obviously have the right to better pensions, but mainly they have the right to look forward to jobs for their children and grandchildren. And only our own economic liberalisation policies can guarantee these jobs. We are thus reaching the fourth conclusion of the procedure which is perhaps the most important to me. Because - unless he got away with it at the edge of his speech - I heard the Prime Minister asking the people to vote for the vote of confidence on May 26th. Yes, sir. He has thus admitted what we are saying, that the European elections and regional elections have a great political burden. In fact, they are a national poll. It is the first opportunity, after almost four years, for citizens to judge and respond to what they have lived, to lies, to taxes, to division, to the national wound that the Embassy Agreement has opened. The real dilemmas are ahead of us. Truth or lies, opportunities for many or poorer, security or chaos, unity or division. That's why we'll vote on two Sundays tomorrow. The people's message will be clean and bronze. So I raise the glove, Mr. Tsipras. The European elections will be a vote of disapproval to the worst government that the place has ever known since the Migration! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And a vote of support in the united and renewed New Democracy, the only political force that can today unite the Greeks into a great national regeneration. So, Mr Tsipras, you have turned the European Call into a referendum for your Government and since the result of the night of 26 May is a defeat for SYRIZA, as I appreciate, then on the night of 26 May you have no choice but to call a national election immediately and to commit today to doing so! You can finally give the people the opportunity to take their fates into their hands. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I have systematically done over the last few months, I have been overrun by SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras. What he does is a bad imitation of a bad past. And what he says already sounds like his adversary yesterday. He insists on calling "or ending them or ending them" and I insist to say that I do not end with anyone and I start with everyone. I am very interested to young people, who have to come to the polls for the first time, to define their own course, for education that will enable them to build their own future, education linked to the labour market, and education which will have nothing to do with these abominable things that Mr Gabroglou does at universities. I am interested in well-paid jobs and an insurance system, which will offer a certain pension tomorrow, especially for young people, who do not think they will receive a pension today. I am interested in professionals, who, with fewer taxes and contributions, will once again be the ones who will raise the middle-class, farmers and new ways of producing them, large, medium-sized and small enterprises that will move on to investment by creating many good jobs, pensioners and the unemployed, the weaker, who will not just have a minimum guaranteed income but, above all, opportunities to rebuild their lives and claim the place they deserve in society. Yes, I am interested in the family who is entitled to free access to children’s stations, an extra free for children and 2,000 euros for every new birth. I also welcome Mrs Gennimatas, who recently joined the debate on the importance of demographics. And I'm interested, finally, in every Greek...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u439	We did it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u440	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u441	All right, all right. All of you have done it first. Calabrase these equal distances, Mrs. Gennimata, between New Democracy and SYRIZA. After all, we were in the same government. Do not forget these with so much ease.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u442	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u443	Finally, I am interested in every Greek who has the right to live safely in his home and in his neighborhood and Athens to stop falling apart to set free each Koufantinas! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The New Democracy is today the great progressive party of many. Today it represents a wide regeneration current of the country. All those who are asking for truth, plans and progress, European progress, reforms, rule of law and real modernisation. And we're a lot of people. Old differences with voters from other parties have retreated ahead of the need to stop the economic catastrophe, the institutional catastrophe, division, demagogue. Self-government populism and new old-fashioned communism need a common and dynamic response. And on this front of regeneration there are no exceptions. Those who believe in Mr. Tsipras feel betrayed today and are buffalo angered, responsible patriots who are not caught in extreme slogans without a reflection, as are people who have never been on the lines of the New Democracy. But I urge them to boldly see our positions and our renewed faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that in sixteen days the people will speak. And then lies will really end, the people's voice will cover them itself. In their vote they will call 'here' to the government of incompetence, taxes, poverty and national wounds. They will send out a message of the light Greece, the one we deserve, because the Greeks are better worth it and we can do better. It is up to the citizens on 26 May to take the first step towards this great political change. And when this is completed in the national elections, we will be expecting a lot of work. But with the confidence of a society that is thirsty for a great leap in the future, we will succeed. We can. We can do it together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u444	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 33rd Municipal School of Heraklion and from the 2nd Experimental Municipal School of the University of the Aegean. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u445	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u446	Here you go, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u447	I would like to remind the Chief of Staff Response that the parliamentary intergroup on demographics was created just at my written request to you, to the Bureau of Parliament, because we believe that it is one of the biggest problems facing our country at the moment. So we didn't come back. We started all this effort. I'm glad that's the committee. I said before in my speech that we have no enemies, we have political opponents. Our opponent is conservative policies and we have no equal distances from anyone. We have distances from maintenance. Unfortunately, the maintenance today is expressed with two sides: with SYRIZA and the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u448	Thank you. I call on the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this three-day Civic Opposition and, above all, its Chief, has always tried to divert the debate from the critical issues concerning the life and everyday life of Greeks and Greeks, to issues that they feel can focus on. Their aim is clear and it is understood by every citizen who is following us: not to talk about support measures, not to discuss our plan for exiting the crisis, not to discuss our plan for sustainable growth that the Greek economy must have in the years to come, not to discuss how to return to normality, to discuss issues that Mr Mitsotakis' communication staff has chosen. I believe that Mr Mitsotakis has not made a mistake, and that is what concerns me. It's a choice. It is a political choice of his communication staff to go to elections in a political arena field. That's his choice. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I tried in my first speech to speak programmed, so I will continue until the elections. Whatever answers I had to give you, Mr. Mitsotakis, I gave them to you. And I'm not going to deal with the personal attacks and the misery of the news made. You can, if you want to continue on this road, exaggerate and slander even dead, who have no opportunity to answer, but who were not public persons, so that Greek society knows their political course, their political walking or their social walking and careers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u450	Yes, yes, my father lives!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u451	Mr. Mitsotakis, say it openly what you said. You said about your father. Listen to me, Mr. Mitsotakis. Your father was Prime Minister of the country and had a public life. Citizens have an opinion about your father.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u452	So there's no respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u453	Don't I have respect?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u454	Then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u455	Please, what are you doing right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u456	I've never talked that way. And you know what? Understand that. You need to understand that. Understanding the error is half a step. The other half is to be corrected. So your father was a public figure, Prime Minister. At that time with half Greece in a polarized climate - good time as now -, Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou - when your father was Chief of Antipolitics - called him "Apostate", he called him "Efaltis". I've never referred to them. I have never called Constantine Mitsotakis, nor did I say what I said before, nor did I make such a criticism. But I have the feeling that you probably don't honor your father's memory, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u457	Hey!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u458	You, you, you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u459	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u460	For you, Mr. Mitsotakis, walk with a heavy shadow above your head, which is the shadow of your father. I have no complexes, no complexes, and I'm proud of what my father has done and my family have done. But you, Mr Mitsotakis, show the way in which you conduct yourself as a problem. But I do not want to continue the debate on this. I want to tell you one thing. I would like to tell you that the citizens will judge us on the basis of our positions and opinions. I, therefore, asked that we compare our political plans and our political strategy for the next day of the country. Today I heard you say a little apologies for what Mr Kefaliannis said - for the misery of Mr Kefaliannis - to come out and take pictures with the Deputy Prime Minister of the junta and say that he was my father! Okay, you asked for a little apology. But obviously you didn't say anything about the misery you did. Half apologies, half apologies. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So I say: to this extent this debate. But I want to ask myself in public and openly. Why do you choose this strategy? Why do you choose the sludge strategy in the fan? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Why do you choose the strategy to be surrounded by you in this pit and in this mud, since you tell us that you are in front of the elections, you have won them by hand, you are sure winner, you have been assured for three years not only that you have the victory but the triumph in your pocket and since yesterday you told us that you will be laughing again on May 26th and that you will not just be a winner but a triumph that you will have fourteen points of difference in whatever the polls are set up, so what if it is set up?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u461	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u462	So why do you have such anxiety, since you have such a big difference and you are the winner? Why do you fall so low to overthrow even dead people? Didn't it, finally, that's not it? Do you think, in the end, you're being pushed in for some reason? Do you, in the end, think about it and that's why you want, instead of talking about your economy and plan, to talk about our fathers and talk about whether we were doing a vacation and where? Is that why? Will your chosen and discounted triumph prove very soon once again that he will only be popular, as was done in three returning elections in previous years? Would the difference be similar to that of the referendum that they said fifteen points in front of the yes and went out with twenty points at no? [[Vibrant applause from SYRIZA Wing]] We'll see about that in time. However, today I would like to say something to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition. You've lived a long time in an illusion. Maybe it's your counselor who tells you that way, maybe even you're the ones who want to believe it. You live in the illusion that SYRIZA is crumbling, it has already collapsed, that SYRIZA is a flare that will extinguish, that it has no roots in the Greek people. Some people obviously tell you that, and they advise you that way. And I think they're advising you wrong and suggesting you a wrong path and, of course, you underestimate the intelligence of the Greek people. You know, SYRIZA is not only going to collapse but will win the election battles for a reason you have not understood. It represents a social current. He is the main not the only one, but the main expressor at this time at our place of the progressive party, the democratic party in the country and, above all, he is the party that represents and fights for the interests of the many. This is the crucial element in your answer and you do not find it. And I will devote much of my speech today to explaining this to you, Mr Mitsotakis. You have, in my opinion, made a big mistake, trying to take the debate from the economy to the staff and the moral advantage. You've made a big mistake, because that's where you're going to lose against a state especially you. You're giving us passes to empty ends. But you do this for two reasons, the first concerns the absolute assumption, your own and your advisers, that in the economy you have no more record, you have been disproved more than ten times - I have said it and said it before - in your predictions to which you have failed. The second reason is that you believe that you will be reproaching the so-called 'ethical deficit', that is, our advantage and your own deficit. As Mr Pangalos said before, "We have eaten together", you now want to say "we are all the same". That's why. But you do not realize that your essence and real problem are not the moral disadvantage you have. You have it, but that's not your problem. Your problem is political. Your problem - and I will say this because the day before yesterday you mentioned the elites and the many people and again - your problem, Mr Mitsotakis, is not that you are part of the elite, your problem is that your policy and your programme favours the elite of the place and burdens the many. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It makes no sense to try and pretend to convince us either that you are not part of the elite or - even worse - get into the most funny attempt to convince us that I am part of the elite. I repeat, your problem is your position and your programme, it is your political reason, when it is articulated, which is a discrediting reason for many. You referred to the majority of the people, the term 'fair majority', on the other hand, in the Centre for Liberal Studies, you said that you did not like the term people, because it is a concept of a blur, and you prefer the term of people, the term of citizens. Your parallel escaped to Cyprus and you said to abolish the Christmas present. Last Saturday on a television show you said that the 15th pension is populism and that it is the provision of a client state and that in any event this is impossible. Mr. Mitsotakis, politician is your problem, and these are your issues, they're not the rest. In any case, I choose to drop the tons, I am sure you will not. I am sure you will continue until the elections, because you have copied a campaign that corresponds to the candidates of the extreme right in Latin American countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u463	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u464	Yeah, yeah, that's what you've done. I will tell you, you have exactly the campaign it had - and that is where it worked, but you will not succeed here - that Bulsonar had in the presidential elections, the extreme right in Brazil. This campaign you have: make news, toxicity, yellowism, mud on the opponent, confrontation without limits and principles and natural bold order and security. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Be careful, don't worry because that's not all I'm saying. They also call them people with whom I disagree vertically, I am politically and ideologically opposed, but we have had a political debate in the context of political culture. Mr Meymarakis said yesterday on public television, when he said that you are committing a major political mistake that is exacerbating the political climate in this way. I didn't say it, Mr. Mitsotakis. And, of course, he referred to your advisers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u465	But he didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u466	Now you're not laughing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u467	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u468	Well, listen, this is the mixture of policy you're going to pursue and it's a mixture that's aiming, it's not absurd. Your goal is to gain access to popular layers through stereotypes, through paradoxicals, by copying many times and extreme right forms and through gossip and of course by highlighting, once again, your favorite agenda for order and security. I have heard you today and again make a special reference to Mr Koufantina's point. And I wanted to ask you: When on these days Christoulos Xiros took one leave after another - and rightly so, because this was the law - but at some point he never returned to prisons back, was SYRIZA government? You weren't a minister of the New Democracy then? We didn't see you talk then!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u469	What didn't we talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u470	All right, now, all right. When you reacted...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u471	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u472	Come on, make news again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u473	I have more to tell you. When you reacted...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u474	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u475	I'll beg you not to exhaust. So now you're talking. Then you weren't talking. You neither reacted nor spoke at that time, when most of the convicted of "17 November" but also of other similar cases, took the first leave or were released, according to the law. Minister of the Government of the New Democracy, you were also then. But never again. Nor, of course, over your days when barbecues escaped with helicopters from the prisons, they would come over the helicopters and take them out of the prisons and they would not even talk then. In the new Republic and in PASOK, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So this hypocrisy must be stopped, because it proves once again that all you are interested in is to include a matter which concerns only justice - I would like to highlight this - in your opposition patronage. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure you that this will be the New Democracy policy from here to the European elections and from the European elections to the national elections that will take place on time. However, as long as you deal with the misleadingness of the many, we will speak, work and fight, to give answers to the real problems and needs of the many. In these years, despite the backward predictions and your expectations, we have achieved a lot of things, we have succeeded in restoring the Greek economy, getting out of the chaos of fiscal derailment, reaching a solution to the question of public debt, dealing with the big - not all yet - consequences for the weak. We succeeded after a lot of trouble and huge sacrifices to get the country out of this magnificence in which it was for eight years from the memoranda. Since August 1918 this House has been convening to vote for measures for the gradual restoration of injustices and we are implementing a new economic policy safely, without jeopardising the country's progress but with hierarchies for the next generations and for the weak. We started with the restoration of working normality, collective bargaining, the increase of minimum wages, the abolition of the shameful underpaid wage for the young people who brought him, with the protection framework for first residence, with the favourable arrangements for the debts of citizens to funds and tax, and of course we implemented one in one of the measures for which I was bound in September 1918 at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have implemented the cancellation of the pension cut, the reduction of the EMI by 30%, the measure which is 30%, that is to say, for the weak, the time being is the next step. In September that's coming to us, there's gonna be four and a half thousand recruits in special lawsuits. We have implemented the housing allowance, which is mostly young people who want to make a family and at thirty live in their children's room. You know, right now, two hundred and forty thousand households have already benefited from this measure. Last Tuesday we committed ourselves to the Greek people and we proceeded with the implementation of an even more important and much wider package of support measures not only of the social majority but of all, with measures that will be directly implemented and voted on next week, such as the reduction of VAT from 24% to 13% in the focus, the transfer of food VAT from 24% to 13%, the reduction of VAT on energy, electricity, PPC and natural gas from 13% to 6% and the distribution of the tenth total cost of about 820 million euros. I know it bothers you to hear them, but I'll repeat them to get used to them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] From next year will the abolition of the solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20,000 and the reduction in the solidarity levy from 5% to 2% for incomes of up to 30,000 and for higher incomes also decrease. A strong investor-related development measure is the 50% increase in investment depreciation, the premium for insurance contributions for young people up to twenty-five years to 80% and up to twenty-nine years at 25%, the reduction in the average VAT rate from 13% to 11%, the tax reductions for the inhabitants of the islands, the reduction of HICP for the islands to a thousand inhabitants, the reduction of cooperative tax, the exemption of housing loans for borrowers. You're telling us that all we've announced is tricks, they're gifts, they're election benefits. You said the same thing last September when I announced what I announced at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. You're saying the same thing now. Let me remind you, however, - not to hear them, but those who are watching us - that the support measures we bring and vote on are permanent support measures, permanently. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And it's justice for many. It's the reward of sacrifices. And I'd say it's the dawn of a next day, better day for our country. And the main result was concrete planning and hierarchies. They are not measures that increase public debt. They are not measures that produce deficits, but they are the result of the surpluses that we have already left, from the result of the sacrifices and the hard work we are now fruiting, that is, the result of a serious, methodical job, and the result of our strategy to support the weakest. We have succeeded in reducing burdens and reducing surpluses in practice. You promise to do so and, of course, promise that you will do so in exchange for measures of the type of International Monetary Fund, social freak. We move on to this relief, without exchanges or redundancies or cuts. I heard you asking Mr. Tsakalotos. Look, maybe this shows up the way we think. The pensions sector is our priority. You know what? There the core of punishment of austerity was based in the years of the memorials. So here, no matter how much you want to hide the program differences, it is not easy to do so. So here's where we agree and where we disagree. You, Mr Mitsotakis, are deeply opposed to these measures, you are deeply in agreement with the cuts and you have made this clear with the question you have obviously raised outside of the text. When you are in text they protect you, except in text, things are unfolding for you. You disagree with that logic, which is why you said in your interview at a television station that the thirteenth pension cannot be reinstated. That didn't miss you, that was your truth. That's what you think. That it's populism, that it's a customer provision and that it's not possible, it's impossible. Now what are you gonna do? Will you come and vote on it? Are you coming or aren't you coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u476	Is it a thirteenth?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u477	Is it a thirteenth?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u478	Is that your problem? Mrs. Bakoyannis, is this your problem that it's not a thirteenth? Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u480	Oh, that's your problem, because until yesterday it was populism and the provision of a client state. Now are you concerned about half the provision, half the populism and half the customer state? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Is that your problem? Really? Good for you! You don't even keep the pretexts. You're so embarrassed that you don't even keep the pretexts. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For the vast majority of pensioners it will be an entire pension. For a very large part it will be 70%, for a part 50% and for a part of the higher pensions it will be 30%. Isn't that a backup, a breather? So that's the problem, huh? [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Your problem is you don't believe in it. Your problem, I repeat, is not that you are part of the elite, but that with your policies and your ideas you often support elite's interests in a disgraceful way. That's your problem. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But in any case, if you think it's improper, go for a walk in the days when the pensioners will receive the ATMs the tenth pension, tell them that it's a customer measure, that it's populism and that it's a shame that we didn't give it all to those who won't give it all. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would like to insist, however, and I believe that this is the main body of my speech today, and I would like to give you a little bit of it to understand, Mr Mitsotakis and ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition. What I am trying to explain from the outset is that the problem is your programme and your political positions, which have no room for waste in favour of many. And I would like us to take an example not only of pensions but also of insurance. You told me yesterday, Mr Mitsotakis, that your social policy predicts the abolition of the Katorugalos abortion and the establishment of a three-pillar insurance system. And you said that we ignore the fact that a three-pillar insurance system is being applied today in all European countries. In short, you wanted to tell me that the Pinochet project, which you have prepared - and I did not say it, Mr Karagunis said so, your Member - applies to all European countries. Why? Because the three-pillar system applies, you say, to all European countries, but it does not apply to our country. Because, Mr Mitsotakis, you do not know very well what is going on in our country and in its insurance, so you know that there has been a three-pillar system in our country since 2002: main and subsidiary, professional funds and private insurance. But citizens do not choose the two pillars, the second pillars, the private insurance and the professional funds. They choose the basic pillar, the main and supplementary pension due to reduced income.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u481	They don't choose. It's compulsory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u482	Our difference lies in the fact that you want to convert part of the first pillar that is mandatory... [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] You're right. Our difference is that they don't choose private sector, private insurance, Mr. Yakumato. Don't do what you don't understand. That's your poor thing to go to private. That's your poor thing. Let me finish my thoughts. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Your difference is that you want to convert part of the first pillar, which is mandatory, into voluntary participation, in order to direct resources to private insurance. What will this cost the Greek economy? This will cost the Greek economy an unbearable burden, which can cumulatively reach all EUR 55 billion, as we have publicly denounced. And this, sooner or later, will be called upon to be paid by pensioners with rapid reductions in their pensions or by the Greek State with an unknown ending. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is probably not so unknown, directly into the IMF's arms, because this is your objective, social looting and the International Monetary Fund, in order to benefit from private insurance. So who's finally? A few. This is the truth of your plan and you should expose it to the entire Greek people when you speak. And I repeat, the Pinochet designation didn't come out of it. The congressman told him, 'cause that's exactly what it is. Your congressman was just being honest. You're lying and you're a hypocrite. Let me now explain to you, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, because we are with the many but you are in the interests of elite. Our political proposal, our vision, we call it "Hurry and plan for Greece of many". These aren't air words. We have proved it and continue to fight to improve the living conditions of the people of this country. We supported the weak even at the most difficult times for the Greek economy when we received empty funds. We have increased from EUR 780 million in welfare expenditure to EUR 3 billion today. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We supported policies for the child. We supported and created the social income of solidarity for over seven hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. There wasn't. We established the programmes for the recovery of the humanitarian crisis, the rental allowance, which I said before. We supported public health, because we had a political and moral obligation. We did a systematic job, which you said at the time was impossible, two and a half million of our fellow citizens having access to the public health system. For you they didn't have access, because they were uninsured. We supported public hospitals with nineteen thousand recruitments. We moved to local health units all over the country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have dealt with, tried and tried, battled to deal with the working conditions. This concerns, above all, the new generation. But we also reduced unemployment by 9%. Over three hundred and eighty thousand new jobs have been created in these days. We supported the new generation, increasing the minimum wage and abolishing the subordinate. We have gone on subsidising insurance contributions by 50% for new recruits of up to twenty-five years. And, of course, we are the ones who invested in the country's scientific potential, these people, what we called Brain Drain, the young people, the researchers, the highly skilled, the two- and three-certificates-trained who go abroad, when we increased, in conditions of budgetary crisis, the resources for research, and today we have gone over over 1% of GDP, that is, over 2 billion. We also supported the rural world. That's the many. We were reducing the tax burden from 90% of farmers who have an income of up to 20,000 euros a year. We have implemented the reduction of insurance contributions for the main pension of farmers from 18% to 12%. We have abolished the trade tax for cooperative farmers, and from time to time we are reducing the tax on cooperatives. We'd lighten the burdens on the free professionals who lifted a heavy burden. We've reduced the insurance contributions of the free professionals. And we anticipated that companies would also be subject to the first residence arrangement. But you keep telling us about healthy entrepreneurship, about entrepreneurship, but not healthy. You tell us that we do not have a development plan, when on your day there has been the greatest dedevelopment that the country has ever seen. We have strengthened healthy entrepreneurship, not because we think it is elite but precisely because we believe that there are also conditions in place to support many. Conditions are being created for new jobs. We have therefore given incentives to investment and entrepreneurship. Foreign direct investment scores 3.6 billion in 2018 and even higher in 2019, while tax rates, because you blame us and that is why we throw them. Five units fall the tax rate until 2022. We also supported our islanders. We found the tax rates at 29% and by 2021 the tax rates will be at 25%. We also supported our islanders, with recent measures that we announced on tax exemptions, a reduction in HISA and, of course, with the great innovation of tax equivalents. So on this, we will all be called upon to build trust in our fellow citizens, on these things and on our intentions. I would therefore like to close by saying this: Greece of many with Greece of the elites are two worlds of undiscipline. They are two worlds that are not compatible. That's why I'm telling you when I give you that you're a representative of the elites that I don't object to your origin or how you grew up nor how you turned into the elites' ranks, but I judge your positions, ideas and program. Your positions expressing the interests of a strong minority the oligarchy of the place. Why did you have 5 euros for access to hospitals and abolished uninsured access, while at the same time giving 241 million of the returns of pharmaceutical companies to rebate and kept them locked in your drawers, what did you do? You lighten the few and weigh the many.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u483	Quiet, please. Patience, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u484	We did the exact opposite. We restored free access, abolished the 5 euros. And we now call the fund those who didn't pay. Also, Mr Mitsotakis, you say about a horizontal reduction of 30% of HISF, in other words about large assets. That is what you say, while we voted for a 30% reduction in the mid-term but not horizontally for all. It is 50% for the people's districts, houses and small property, that is, for many, and 10% - it is less - a reduction for the villas in Akali and Psychic. When you say that and we say the other thing, you favour elites and you want to be burdened with the many. When you are talking about an outdated institution of the eighth hour and you say ideology of collective agreements on the line of the Greek Industrial Association, you say it to lighten the elites and burden the many.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u485	Be quiet! What's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u486	While we with the Labour Inspectorate are punishing the workers' offenders, when we reintroduce collective agreements, involving an increase in wages for hundreds of thousands of workers and when we are increasing the threshold and abolishing the subordinate, then we do this to support the many, disregarding the interests of the elites. And at least it's funny, Mr. Mitsotakis, the fact that you started your speech by saying that 'we are not giving the battle against inequality on the left'. But were you, Mr. Mitsotakis, not the one who said inequality was a natural prefecture, which can never change? It was you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I have tried, ladies and gentlemen, today with simple examples of explaining both to the House, but above all to the Greek people who are listening to us, what is the difference between our policy and the policy of the New Democracy. I have tried to explain why the main problem with Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy cannot escape it, no matter how much it goes to yellowism, to mud and to war and out of principle. I tried to explain why your main problem is political, programming and ideological. So I tried to do what you want to avoid, namely programming and political dialogue. And I tried to give you just examples. I know your choice is not to answer all this. I know your choice will be next time, to continue poisoning the political life of the country. All you can do is make yourself and your party toxic. Mr Mitsotakis, I have chosen to ask Parliament once again to respond to critical dilemmas. To answer, if it wants to continue the effort to rebuild the country and to rebuild the economy, or if it wants to return to the darkest Memorandum past. To answer, whether it supports social support and relief measures or whether it wants their annulment, whether it wants to be supported or whether it wants to be demolished, whether it wants to hire or if it wants to go back to 1 to 5 and possibly redundancies, whether it wants to work with dignity or whether it wants to return to work jungle, whether it wants solidarity or social cannibalism, whether it wants justice or whether it wants to abandon, whether it wants transparency or the corruption of the old regime, whether it wants a future of prosperity or a future of social hardship, whether it trusts the measures and the support plan for many who are struggling or a few. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I am sure that once again the National Representation, today, will respond positively to the fact that it is with the many. The most crucial thing, however, is what the Greek people will answer. And the Greek people on May 26 will send a message to both the elites and the arrogant ones, who think that the desire of power is enough to justify everything, every atom, every extremity, every lie, every slander, every insult! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, will continue to work with dignity, humility, with commitment to our work, with arguments, hard work and hard work. We will continue to work to give our final reference to society and society, to the Greek people. To give our final reference to the many and only the many! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u487	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-three students and students and five teachers from the Municipal School of Maniakos and the Municipal School of Kostarazio Kastoria. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We have come to the end of the debate on the government's vote of confidence. This debate lasted three days, 8 May, 9 May and 10 May. Seventy-seven Members spoke, seven Presidents of Parliament, eighteen Ministers, seven Parliamentary representatives, three former Members of Parliament, i.e. a hundred and twelve speakers. The total time was about twenty - nine hours. The previous debate on the vote of confidence lasted twenty-four hours and thirty minutes. The average duration of the nine confidence votes held post-populationally and unfolded within three days was about twenty-five hours. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Prime Minister's proposal for a vote of confidence in the government is adjourned in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 141 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, be quiet. It will be followed by a roll-call vote, which will be held in accordance with Rules 72 and 72A of the Rules of Procedure. They accept the proposal to give a vote of confidence they say 'HAY'. Those who fail to accept the proposal for a vote of confidence are saying 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. The Secretary of Parliament and MP Evros Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and MP Imathia of the New Republic Mr Apostolos Vesropoulos are on the list. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Bureau has received letters from fellow Members present on a mission from Parliament abroad, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u488	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have received the Bureau of colleagues, Mr Olga Kefaloniannis, Mr Harulas (Charas) Kefalidou, Mr Ioannis Ragos and Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, who know that they will not attend today's roll-call vote on the Prime Minister's proposal for a vote of confidence and that if they were here they would vote 'OR'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u490	Ladies and gentlemen, until the vote is completed I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Internal, National Defence, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration Policy, Deputy Minister of Finance, and the Deputy Minister of Finance have today tabled a draft law: ‘Statement of the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA)’. The Foreign Ministers, Citizens' Protection, Finance, Infrastructure and Transport, as well as the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, submitted today 10-5-2019 draft law: "Following the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a new border crossing point between the two countries, which will link the Promas, the Hellenic Republic and the Majden (Majden) to the Republic of Northern Macedonia". Also, the Foreign Ministers, Civil Protection, Economic, Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure and Transport, as well as the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, have today tabled a draft law: "Structuring the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a border crossing point in the region of Prespa Lake and other provisions". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u491	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 289 Members voted. They voted for the government's vote of confidence, i.e. 'NAH', 153 MPs. [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] They refused to vote for a vote of confidence, i.e. they voted 'OF', 136 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. The government therefore had the vote of confidence in Parliament, as provided for in Rules 84 of the Constitution and 141 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u492	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-10-S1-commons.u493	With the agreement of the House at 21.35 p.m., the sitting for the next Monday, May 13, 2019, at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
