ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval 10-5-2019, the minutes of the PK's PK's meeting of Friday 10 May 2019 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Priminal Responsibility of Ministers", as in force, (a) on 18-2-2019, a criminal case for the Member and former Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and a criminal case for the Member and Deputy Minister of Health Mr Paul Polakis and (b) on 8-5-2019, a criminal case for the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasio Petropoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member of the Democratic Association, Mr Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 13 May to 14 May 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Preparation of the Concession of the Project of Study - Construction - Financing - Operation - Maintenance and Operation of the New International Airport of Heraklion Crete and Study - Construction and Financing of its Roads". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 7 May 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u5	The House has agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Igoumenides Nikolaos has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u7	Here you go, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Because today we are discussing a bill which, as the committee has made clear, there is a broad agreement and agreement, if you wish, as far as the bill is concerned, a request to the Minister: because a number of amendments will be discussed, we will have as soon as possible to ensure that the Members of Parliament can put them on the table. As I understand that the procedure will be relatively short, the Minister will also tell us, when he is ready, which of the parliamentary amendments he will accept and whether the government intends to accept, beyond the ministerial amendments tabled, if there is any thought of any others being tabled. I say this in order not to be a last minute with the soul in the mouth again, to say 'yes' or 'no' to some amendments which we have been reading lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u9	Minister, do you now want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u10	As soon as we're ready, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the ratification of a convention on long-term work. It concerns a project that comes to be added to the Crete infrastructure, to the infrastructure of the country, which is of major importance to important aspects of the development, infrastructure and economic life of the country. It is a project that has been employing Heraklion, Crete, the country for decades. As we discussed in detail at the meetings of the Standing Committee on Production and Trade, the placement of the project in Kastelli was the result of a deep search, mature thinking and exhaustive discussion of the stakeholders. We want an airport that will contribute to the development and upgrading of the Cretan and more generally of the Greek tourist product. We want an airport that will contribute - in its measures, of course - to the general economic development of the country, to the definitive exit of our economy and our homeland from the circumstance of the economic crisis that we have been experiencing in recent years. We want a gateway, a meeting place for Europe and the Middle East. We want an airport that will help upgrade the role of Crete and, of course, the country in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean. It is clear from the above that we are discussing a project, an addition to the infrastructure of the country that will contribute to the development of Heraklion, Crete and more generally of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the competitive process is concerned, I dare say that important areas have become, in which it is worth standing, because on the one hand they enrich our experience of how it can be done properly and to benefit from public-private partnerships, on the other hand, they show us the way for the necessary interventions in our legislation. Regarding the competitive process: it has passed forty waves. However, when the competition took place, he came to disprove the masters of evil rivalry. Let's not forget both in 2015 and in 2016 and in 2017, the opposition anticipated the country's destruction. When the competition took place, he came to confirm the good course of the economy. When this competition took place, in a persuasive sense of all those who thought that even if we did not have a troika we had to invent, he came to confirm the positive course that led to the country's exit in August 2018. Beyond the objective - let me come to them and later to my place - the delays in the tender - we believe that for the delays and the fact that the competitive process has passed forty waves, beyond the objective difficulties, there were also economic interests which did not want the tender to take place, either because they did not want to have a great risk to their investment at the time when the tender was made or because they had interests which the existing situation and the stay of the airport at Nikos Kazantzakis in Heraklion served them better. The second innovative element of the competitive process of the contract that we will now ratify in plenary is that it protects the public and the common course with the concessionaire from possible future claims by the manufacturer. More specifically, Article 6 of the Convention states that if we have other geotechnical conditions in the application studies, if there is a differentiation of revenues at the existing Heraklion airport, if there is a differentiation in the revenues of the air traffic, if the question of the operation of the military airport arises, if excavation problems arise, appropriateness, excavation of excavations products, etc., all these risks and risks are not the dangers that the Greek State or the public company is taking on. And that is obvious that it protects the public from the manufacturer because, badly lying, usually claims and large amounts of compensation arise from the manufacturer's requirements after and not from the concessionaire's requirements. We had other areas in this competitive process. The greatest is, in my opinion, the choice of independent engineer. We have a distinct, open, public, international competition for the independent engineer. This is very important because the independent engineer has no dependence on the concessionaire as opposed to the concessions so far not only in our country, but also abroad, where the independent engineer usually went down with the concessionaire. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, we are ensuring the true independence of the independent engineer who has often moved in conditions of possible potential pressure from the concessionaire. Another important issue with regard to the contract under ratification that we are discussing is the large proportion of the public. Ladies and gentlemen, the revenues above 6.5 million passengers in Nikos Kazantzakis go only to the public. Can't be transferred 35% of the company anywhere else. We have a bitter experience of the memorials they have brought and imposed on the country then either privatised or transferred to the TSE. The revenues at 100% as a whole for the new airport go to the public sector, the Civil Aviation Service. And finally, 90% of expropriations have been completed. There should be no other project such as this that before the sanction 90% of the expropriations required have been completed. There are also provisions for local society and local communities, in which we must stand and keep them for the predictions we must have when major projects are made. In the contract that we are discussing the return benefits for local society reach 2% of the turnover. It is important to say that 1% goes to the municipality that will be charged with hosting the airport and the remaining 1% to the neighbouring municipalities. To have a comparison, I would like to say that in "Eleftherios Venizelos" the payroll benefits are 0% for the neighbouring municipalities. And it is true - to say this here and from this position - that we must start talking about the rewarding benefits of the neighbouring municipalities even today in the area of "Eleftherios Venizelos". A second element in this regard: why did we put 1% in the municipality hosting the airport by a ministerial decision? Unfortunately, there has never been complete strategic planning for Crete and its infrastructures nor for the country. As the Minister said in one of the previous discussions in committee, it is now over to consult environmental licensing on strategic planning for infrastructure and transport, so that we can say that this is planning and that is where the funding will be directed. Furthermore, with regard to the remuneration benefits, the municipality hosted by the airport on the board of directors of the airport company shall be provided with the participation of the municipality. There is also a building which will be at the airport's premises an exhibition centre for Cretan enterprises, Cretan products and products in the region. To have a comparison again, I would like at this point to say that there is no building in Eleftherios Venizelos, no exhibition centre aimed at public bodies, local government, local companies in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had enough of them - they have been engaged in the public debate over the past twenty years, we have also been involved in the Committee's discussions - the issues relating to environmental protection. I am not going to repeat all the previous discussions in today's report. However, I think we should keep some positions, some of them as conclusions from this whole debate. Firstly, in matters relating to the environment, the protection of the environment and our culture, let us say that the architectural committee is provided for so that the buildings and infrastructure at the airport do not affect the architecture of Crete or our cultural heritage. Secondly, it has become apparent that the ‘Nikos Kazantzakis’ airport currently in existence in the urban fabric of Heraklion and any upgrade of the airport cannot cover either the increased demand or the prospect of increasing airport traffic, nor the design of the new airport. It is characteristic what we said, that no one expected, when we were discussing twenty years ago, that at Nikos Kazantzakis we would exceed the traffic of six and a half million passengers. Already last year we were at eight and a half million, and this year April 2019 presents a 20% increase compared to April 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also have a printing for the region, which is which of the sections that are expropriated are exploited in primary production, but also for the main-professional farmers, that is to say, the people who, with the expropriations, lose their property, which is their professional tool and, in the end, their lives. We need to see if the judgements of the courts do not, in the judgments of the local community and our own, cover this property. There must be a specific provision in relation to these categories of population and expropriations. In local government, it is the burden of looking for other regions, either to make new olive groves, or to find areas or olive groves that are not exploited, to expropriate them and to give them the main profession of farmers. We will also keep in mind the fact that tertiary biological cleansing is provided, which will also take over the sewage of surrounding settlements. And to close this piece of environmental issues with the finding and the fact that the airport's energy footprint will be too low and with a specific airport rating. Here too, to note that since Minoa Pedadas Municipality does not have the technical services to respond to, and to avoid further delays, the Ministry of Infrastructure undertakes the necessary spatial study as well as the financial burden. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years and in general terms, on the occasion of the debate on the convention which we wish to ratify shortly, we have heard too much and even conflict. We've heard of fireworks, we've heard of works inexistently. Finally in one paragraph below, in a statement by another Member, the unexpected works are done half-finished by the New Democracy and shortly after we heard it said 'no, they were not half-finished by the New Democracy, they were half-finished by the PASOK'. In any case, we have heard a lot. The reality, beyond the positionings, comes to show some evidence. And I will not go into all of this, and I will mention three infrastructure projects in Crete, which are: The bridge in Hamasi, which was released ten days ago, the road of Heraklion - Messara, which is released within the next 10 days and the airport of Kastelion, which we are discussing today, the contract of concession of the project. All these three projects have been employing over the past twenty years. Why? Why have they been working the way they did for twenty years? Why this delay? One part of the fact is that we learned to baptize it "objectively" - but let me not entirely agree with the sense - and it is about matters that touch, touch and continue to touch the function of the Greek state. In any case, let us accept it for the economy of the debate that there were such issues, which are obviously not the fault of the project or those who were involved in each of these projects. I think, in addition to the objective difficulties, ladies and gentlemen, the main problem was that there was no integrated planning. And since - I conclude, Mr President - as our people say - by the ancient Greeks, 'a bad million comes down', the lack of integrated planning has led to the lack of that political will that will stand above competition, that of conflicts between local communities and local areas. As a result, there has been a retreat to the respective local pressures, a retreat to the needs of the respective regions. So, ladies and gentlemen, since the lack of integrated planning we have reached its spatial chaos today in Greece. Bad lies, absence, lack of complete plan by the rulers in the previous period of Greece has come to leave Crete without infrastructure. We - and I am closing with this, Mr President - with a plan, hard work and, above all, with a majority of the social forces, have managed to get the country out of the memoranda with society upright. The same integrated project, the same hard work and, above all, the living social forces, was what resulted in us relaunching the important infrastructure projects throughout the country, covering a significant gap in Crete's infrastructure. Thus, the state's inertia of the project, and the lack of infrastructure, gave its place in the state's activity, in the unblocking of the projects, in its effectiveness in interventions. Here is, if you will, ladies and gentlemen, our difference from the conservative faction. We on the left do not see infrastructure as the necessary election beads and mirrors for the acquisition and demolition of consciences. We on the left did not treat or treat infrastructure projects as a means of enrichment for the stakeholders. Instead, for us on the left the infrastructure that our country needs, the infrastructure that improves the daily life of the citizen is an important element of Greece after the memoranda. For the Left the infrastructure is an identifiable element of Greece of the new era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Christos Boukokouros, rapporteur from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the ratification of the concession contract for the airport in Kastelli for us in the New Democracy, the period of a triple bet starts not only for Crete but for the whole country. It is a bet that the country's political and technical world over the next five years will definitely have to win not only because Crete provides a high quality tourist product, but because we can diagnose the island's potential for even greater participation in the formation of the country's GDP. What is this triple bet that starts with today's ratification of the concession contract? It is the maintenance of the time schedule for the study and construction of the new airport in the next sixty months. Secondly, it is the exploitation of the existing 'Nikos Kazantzakis' airport, which we have tabled, which is also part of the New Democracy government programme, this real fillet with the enormous potential must be exploited with innovative actions to which I shall refer next. The third part of the bet is the completion within this timeframe of the airport road links with the roads of Crete, namely NOAK, the southern road axis and the northern road axis - in the first case, the connection relates to a closed 18 km motorway, in the second case regarding the BOAK, it concerns a 6 km closed motorway - and the completion at last of the northern road axis of Crete, an important project, which has, in fact, been delayed, in total - if you want - the political world's responsibility. Because it doesn't make any sense to have a state-of-the-art connection that ends up on a highway that isn't complete. We hear the Minister's commitment that he will have this project in September and I hope that within the timetables for the completion of the airport the northern road axis will also be completed, so that this modern Minotaur ceases to take lives. These three aspects, if they are won, if this bet is won, will in fact have been completed in Crete. Can we hope that the timetables will be fully respected? No, we are not optimistic today, because we have 23 months of delay to get to today's ratification of the concession contract for the construction of the project and are certain islands of uncertainty, Minister, in this project, such as the issue of a definitive price of one unit. I also know your personal interest. Of course, expropriations in the first phase have made 90%. I hope that 100% will be completed very soon and, above all, I hope that the people will be paid for by issuing the final unit price. It's not entirely your responsibility, we know it. It is justice, but all the actors in this country must focus on the public interest and the interests of the country, and these issues must be speeded up. That's our point of view. So this project, the airport in Kastelli, embraces it, supports it and will support it, because it is a project that has been envisioned and planned by the New Democracy. It also proceeded to tender, regardless of the delays to which I shall refer. We can only support today's bill. But today's development is coming, Minister, to confirm our firm position that this country's great works are being envisioned and planned, that others are studying them and building them, that they are being implemented and that they are finally inaugurated. They go beyond the government's work of every government, and this shows the timetable of today's bill. It proves it. It is a five-year contract, while government mandates are four years old. We all know that. Therefore, there must be consensus in these major projects, if we are interested in growth. That is why I have made it clear from the outset that the New Democracy has been supporting this project. And I would suggest here, Minister, that we should not compensate farmers for the farm land in order to do the work. They'll get a price, probably higher than the objective value. But there are too many financial possibilities at European Union level to draw up a parallel social recovery plan, especially for farmers who will be forced to expropriate their farm land. I would therefore call on the government to look for such outlets, because compensation does not mean social rehabilitation for those who lose their jobs. Many of these people will be forced to change their profession, some others will probably transfer their farms with less profits and so on. I think this is a good opportunity to see what can be done for further social rehabilitation of these people. Other issues, of course, which concern us in keeping with the timetable are the issues of archaeology, the environmental issues that have been discussed in the committees and, of course, we are concerned with the fact that the anti-military works and the work itself and the connections between roads and airports are concerned. I believe that these are issues that can be dealt with. We are talking about an airport, which, after the first five years of operation, will serve nine million passengers, while in its full development, before the 30-five years of concession is completed with an opt-out of ten years of mutual agreement between the two parties, will serve some fifteen million passengers. It automatically becomes the country's second largest airport. I have to say that a thousand five hundred jobs are created permanently and about seven and a half thousand jobs are created during its construction. I do not want to comment in detail on technical projects in the sense that thousands of square blocks in sheltered areas, the five levels of the airport, the thousands of three hundred square blocks in permanent Cretan display areas and all these infrastructures will certainly create a new large economic unit in the area and a large turnover. I do not want to discuss here, in the final phase of ratification of the Convention, the benefits to society and the economy of such an important infrastructure project. What concerns us, I said what it is. The main thing is to keep the timetable, because particularly in infrastructure, but also in all economic processes, we all know that time is money. Before making a brief historical retrogression, I would like to say that for Nikos Kazantzakis the reasons behind the selection of the construction of a new airport and not the extension of Nikos Kazantzakis are known. A development island like, to say simply and understandably, needs to be the second "Eleftherios Venizelos", we can well say that the use of Nikos Kazantzakis can lead to a second Greek with innovative actions that will further strengthen the tourist product of Crete and the tourist choices. This is how we will talk about an integrated, holistic approach to the issues that will strengthen the product of Crete and the country's GDP. Why do we support this project, Minister? Because this work was announced by your predecessor of the Caramanlis governments, George Souflis, was auctioned by the Samara Government, with the crisis with the Papandreou government had become an interruption of interest. You come after two delays over the days of the Samara government, after seven delays over your days. But we get to today. It doesn't matter what time we've wasted. All the time we lost him. It is important that we do not waste time from now on and that the timetable is respected. From there on, I would say that the work itself with a 3.2 km long runway can serve any flying means on the market today, any big airport, any transatlantic or long flight, and we all know what that means. We in the New Democracy want the whole project. After all, our government designed it. We believe it will be a modern airport that fully covers all the international characteristics of modern airports. It is a project that will bring growth to the wider, but also especially to local tourism in Crete, as I said before, but also to commercial and other activities. It will indeed be a bridge that will unite two continents, Asia and Europe. From that point on, the work is double - we should not forget that - and it is the construction and exploitation of both airports and the new and old ones. We must not delay the exploitation of Nikos Kazantzakis. Of course, we disagree, Minister, with the transport of public services to the existing airport, because we believe that there can be interventions to add to the tourist product in Crete, that is, it will be profitable. I believe - without knowing the area of Heraklion more widely - that there are possibilities for gathering public services in other areas in the wider region of Heraklion. As a result, we are saying this clearly and we are stressing it. It is well known, therefore, when it comes to financing whether the public will be involved, i.e. EUR 215 million. The rates on the airport are well known, 2% in local government, but also the possibility of revenues changing in direction by the Minister concerned may be a point which we should see again. In general, we would say that the New Democracy will be a good one, in the few months that it is opposition, and will certainly continue to complete this project, now that it is entering the final straight, at as fast a rate as possible. Also, as far as the BOAK is concerned, Mr Minister, we wish in September that we have a contractor to this project, because then we will have a complete infrastructure in Crete, as long as this is done in the next five years, to be completed, to be delivered to use, so that we also have the added value of infrastructure projects. Because - you know - and 40% of our discount is concerned, like the other issues, which have not been resolved definitively. However, we believe that they can be resolved and must be resolved, because an infrastructure project adds value to society and to the economy when it is completed within the timescales. I will not get tired of repeating for the second time and in my position today that in these cases time is money. We shall also, of course, come back to dentistry. Several amendments are being put forward for which our Parliamentary representative, Mr Yiannis Kefaloyannis, will be put. However, I would like you to allow me, Minister, for an amendment tabled by the Minister of Sports on the restructuring of the championships of Greek football, to express my strong opposition, because it is an example of poor legislation. The Minister had all the time to legislate from September last year. It lets the championships pass, see which teams are being played champions, which ones are being demolished and later comes to legislate. He literally intercepted historical clubs, which made great expenses, carried out championships, did not legislate by the Minister, let them believe that nothing will change, and suddenly today, at the end of the championships, brings this amendment and is wrong for at least ten historical teams in the country. Until yesterday he was potentially wronged by two groups from my constituency, from my town, from Volos: "Olympic Volos" and "Volos Victory". Of course, the barrages that were completed showed that the "Volos Victory" had not been a champion. It unfairs a historical group such as the "Olympic Volos" and not just. At the same time, the Prime Minister went to Yannina yesterday to express his interest in PAS Yannina and, of course, received a paid reply. It is not possible to legislate in this way, to expect to see who is being a champion and who is being demolished, and to bring the regulation back. For this reason, this amendment - not only because it unfairs the 'Olympic Volos', but also many historical groups in the country - the New Democracy will vote against it. We do not ignore the Minister's right to legislate, nor the self-interest in football. However, in voting against the amendment, we are in favour of bad legal practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Kegeroglu, rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance, has the floor. I would also like to inform the House that the list of speakers has been closed. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we are almost ten months after the formal end of the country's loan contract and Greece as a whole has not drawn up the new path. We, before the end of August 2018, requested elections precisely to decide how the country will go. It turns out we were right. Time is wasted, the opportunity for Greece to take a leap forward is lost, and if you exclude specific projects and initiatives, which are one way or another, there is no overall plan to be implemented. Greece must have a new national strategy based on growth, the production of new wealth and of course ensuring social cohesion. Social justice is the demand and can take flesh and bone along with economic recovery. The "Project Greece", the policy of the Change Movement, PASOK, has as key pillars tourist development, always in the context of sustainable development, and of course - second pillar - agricultural production, a modern agri-food sector. Both key pillars strengthen the country's extroversion and competitiveness. The policies, the corresponding ones, need infrastructure. Infrastructure projects, either airports, ports or modernisation and, in particular, combined transport which exploit all modes of transport are to make the extroversion of our economy, the extroversion of tourism, the extroversion of the rural economy. I am referring to extroversion and tourism in the sense that the gates of entry cannot be restrictive. This is why the new international airport in Kastelli is a project of enormous development importance that will benefit both Crete and the country as a whole. It must be created and operated in such a way as to benefit local society, at least in return for the burden. It is self-evident, but not given, unfortunately, respect for the environment, our cultural heritage, to the people. But the work - I repeat - is more than necessary, more than necessary. The citation of the figures on passenger traffic justifies, both the concerns of the people of tourism in the 1990s, and the initiatives taken to find a solution at the same time, but above all it justifies the local community, the collective institutions of self-government at the historic prefecture council of Heraklion and, of course, the PASOK Government, which took the political decisions in 2002-2003 on the selection of the creation of the new international airport, against the decisions, to those positions which took account of the particular interests of categories and groups, and less of the overall interest in the development of society. It should be said that the figures from 2002 to 2017 in relation to the increase in passenger traffic fully confirm the choice. The average growth in the country's airports has been over 50% in recent years. The increase that represented the airport of Heraklion, because it was not possible to serve a greater increase, was of 27%. This only states, it shows, that it proves the right thing to do. Why was the solution of the vocabulary and upgrading of Nikos Kazantzakis not chosen and a new airport selected? It is worthwhile to say that it was done by investigating the solutions. In 1997, a study was commissioned by the HR on the possibilities for upgrading the airport "Nikos Kazantzakis" and the preparation of studies, so that we can really see how this can be upgraded and run over the next few years. And there was an integrated technical study on the long runway, which was officially delivered in 2003. However, we were aware of its elements and, above all, of a budget that today represents EUR 388 million. At the same time, however, a study was commissioned in 1997 at the National Technical University to assess comparatively and to see what the best solution is. The upgrading of the airport "Nikos Kazantzakis"? The creation of new and in what position? The study, when completed, really showed the way. He showed us the choices we had. Clearly and comparatively, it was the choice of setting up a new airport that the scientists indicated, both environmentally and technically and economically, indicated. In future, I would add. Thus, the concern of the people of Alikarnassos and Heraklion about pressure security was combined with the need to create a perspective project to serve and support tourism in the next few decades. It is characteristic that a hundred entities signed a joint declaration in 2001 to create a new airport. The prefecture council of Heraklion came then. It is worth mentioning Yannis Garrefalakis the prefect who recommended and made this decision by a overwhelming majority. Not unanimous, but overwhelming majority. Then the government, with Minister Vérelis and Deputy Minister of State of Heraklion Manolis Army, took the political decision and launched policies for the new airport. Since then a lot has happened. And delays and oligopoies have also been speeding up. I do not now want to talk about what was in one government or another and at the same time about the present one, but there is too much to say. For example, while you cut ribbons and you, Mr. Colleague of the New Democracy, since 2004 with works launched and many had been completed in PASOK, the largest project being the Ryu-Antirio link, at the same time for Kastelli until 2008 you did nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u17	Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis did not attend the ribbon in 2004.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u18	It was called. You guys at least had the sensitivity to call. I'll tell you later about today's. So the period came when you saw that you were going for elections and made a proclamation of the work on August 29, 2009. What are you talking about? In 2009, with 800 million, of course, in a process that would naturally not end up with a contractor. In 2011, the first substantial job it had to do with the airport was completed, because this study had been amended, the specifications and the tender documents on the previous government. They're the specifications and model close to what we're talking about today. It was the first effective tender in 2011. Since then, as you said. Two postponements. Since then there has also been an improvement on both the previous government and the current one. The amendments and improvements were made in two directions. One direction was from remarks and exhortations of those who would take the work they say about participation, competitive dialogue, as we say. It is legitimate, but in relation to decisions, the government has responsibility. The other was the direction of the island's institutional and development institutions who wanted the best solution, the best work. In any case today, we can make very many comments on the oligopoly in relation to the preparatory work and the others that have not been done despite the fact that the government has had all the time - four years, as it turns out - to do, to be ready and to be won. It's not worth that much because it can't turn the time back. You're only reporting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u19	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u20	What did you say, Mr. Caracosta?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u21	From 2008 to 2014 more were auctioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u22	Oh, no. In 2011, the first tender with the current standards took place. If you don't know it's a good thing to limit yourself to architecture. There have been initiatives and progress has been made, but at the same time it has been delayed over all periods. He delayed, for example, the time of the crisis from 2011 onwards. Both the previous government and today it was about the inability of people, bodies, candidate contractors to have the financial and the other safeguards due to the crisis. That is why the current government has been delayed for some years. And the fact that only one company came, that's an indication of it. It's not that a competition was set up and forbid the others to come. Nothing's been set up, Mr. Caracosta. Unless you want to support this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u23	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u24	Now you want to continue the blockade? Well done. Like this. We must come back, because soon the President will tell us what our time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u25	You're welcome, Mr. Karakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u26	So let us say that in one way or another we have arrived here today and what we have to say clearly is that there must be too much that is not included in the convention. If I signed this contract, I also pointed out to the committee what specific points I would otherwise negotiate, what articles I would see with a different eye and viewpoint, such as this article dealing with the combination of Sitia airport and exactly what will happen at Heraklion airport. I think that this connection will not be beneficial to the Greek State, as has been formulated. But it can't be done differently because Mr. Spirji has signed the contract. She's signed it. It's a given. So, for what is included in the contract, there is evidence that I would negotiate differently. I think that anyone else would see it a little differently would do the same. I am thinking above all of issues that need to be addressed at the same time, apart from those contained in the convention. Things must be done at the same time, which have either not been done by now, or are absolutely necessary, but there is oligopoly. I have mentioned the first thing the Minister has to say, even today. He's avoided it so far. It is if the special development we have requested from the municipality and the actors in the region have its approval, what a budget will be for the funding for each year and for how many years to be prepared and, of course, who will be the implementing body. The second issue is about swap, local spatial planning. If we can go to the operation of such a project without a special spatial plan! And it's not just his function when it's over. Land acquisitions have already begun, and land and land transfers have already begun. And the development activities, which will be created, will I think, give their mark negatively if there is no such regulatory reception. And what's the regulatory reception? Just the local landscaping. Immediately, therefore, funding, notice and launch of local spatial planning. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. Exemptions: Expropriations have not been completed. It's still at 0%, because completing the expropriations on my part relative to the owner who loses his property is when he's compensated. So far, no one has been compensated, regardless of the extent to which the bureaucracy has gone. In addition, the compensation provided for has not taken into account a serious factor: that the producers are appointed. It also needs special care to be taken to dismantle this. I would like to make this particular point as an amendment which I tabled a moment ago in order to provide fair compensation. With two words: for expropriation to an owner, from 50% to 100% if you disown him, that is, in total there is an increase. I call it about 50% for the person who's out of property, without a productive tool in his hands. That's what the Minister needs to see today. These theoreticals are not available, i.e. we're going to buy in Diaa Olives or Sitia or Chania. To get the producer from Evangelism, Lianno, Archangelos and from the adjacent villages, Rusochoria, it cannot be done. Care for the adjoining settlements and the consequences. We have huge repercussions and nothing has happened. Not even a simple program for soundproofing houses, which are at the forefront of the impact. The other point we need to see is the name. You say here 'validation of statutes'. I saw it this morning and I say: 'Let's vote on this, let's not vote on it.' Dissolve statutes. Where's the airport, gentlemen? To Castelli. If you read the title is: "New International Airport Heraklion Crete". Why? Where and where? It's Castelli. But here it is different. All new jobs - as we have said, to the body, to the public services, etc. - care must be taken and there is a similar pattern of identification. I have told you about the need to strengthen anti-military projects in the sense that it must be taken into account - not that there is no means - for climate change and for changing data in recent years. As well as measures to protect the aquatic horizon. The need for all settlements to be covered and incorporated into the biological environment is given. I believe there will be this in the course of this. However, we should actually see the protection of surrounding settlements and people from the consequences. For the reward, only the Municipality of Minoa had to have 2% and of course not centralised. What will the Minister say "take it and if he ties and wants, can he give it to any development agency for any work"? It is neither determined who the development agency is nor what the social project is. There is no integrated road connection at the airport. There is a road, which is provided for in the convention and which is very well foreseen. It's nothing more than that. An airport that a one-way will go. Messara's not connected. More than half an hour's time to go from Messara to the airport and much more. Let's see the subject of energy, electrical interconnection. He said the company's representative was going to study. It's a very serious matter. Let's not leave it to the end. Of course, the subject of fuel transport. For today's airport, we are all right to say that there should be no repeated errors that everyone has made, with the same percentage, in the Greek. Let me not count how many years we have waited for this use of the Greek. He tells us next month that something about the current airport should come. If possible. Survey on the use of space: We have ideas, we have proposals for innovation, both for tradition and culture and for a modern administrative center. However, this should be done on the basis of a study. And above all, not to see a new housing centre, but to have a mild growth. Of course, until the completion of the new airport, the present one will not be abandoned. There should also be procedures for modernising and maintaining it, so that the quality of the services provided does not fall. To conclude, I should like to say that all these proposals come in addition to the ratification of the convention, which is a crucial follow-up to what has been started in previous years and, in particular, to the political decisions we have taken to create the new airport. We call on the government to see all the things we have said must be done at the same time and to move forward. And I conclude by saying, Minister, that you should see the issue of the airport and what is happening in the old-fashioned society, let me not describe it. Some - now that my colleague is not here, I will tell you in particular - say that they are now collecting biograms for the people who will work at the airport. I don't know if it's for management, management, workers or subcontractors. Stop it, now that it's early, because they say all this is expelled by you. I'll tell you in particular. Now for the amendments: on the question of the restructuring of football. I think it is an amendment that comes hand-in-hand, is a gonatogram, has in it the blackmailed agreement of sports operators and does not give a solution. We are in favour of the restructuring from the bottom up, but it cannot start with an amendment to ratify a contract for the airport. It is something that needs to be launched in an institutional and in an integrated form to come as a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u27	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu. Put a perfect one, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u28	We are voting against this amendment and we believe that instead of solving issues, it will cause more problems than the Minister is supposed to solve. I am making this particular position on this amendment, because I consider it very important. Penalties for a development project. The amendments which all the subjects come must have one order. It follows another bill after five hours, dealing with issues that can be discussed there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u29	That's exactly why you have to finish now, Mr. Kegergulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u30	I do not understand why this bill needs to be done without calling the institutions, without having a public opinion what exactly they are asking for or what the Minister wants to solve. I'm waiting for him to come and explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th High School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Zaroulia, rapporteur for the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u32	This draft law concerns the ratification of the concession contract signed on 21 February 2019 between the Greek State and the public limited company named ‘International Airport of Heraklion Crete S.A.’, concession to TERNA Anonymous Tourist, Technical and Maritime Company and ‘GMR Airports Limited’. It concerns the design, construction, financing, operation, maintenance and operation of the new international airport of Heraklion Crete in the area of Kastelion, which will be the second-large airport of our country, as well as the related road connections and additional three vertical roads to southern Crete, one of Chania to Paleochora, one of Rethymnon to Plakias and one of Hersonissos to Kastelli and the Arkalochori Industrial Park. The new airport is already in operation in this capacity, which is expected to operate an existing military airport, including the withdrawals of the F-16. First of all, let us say that this is a multi-faceted story that already lasts for over ten to fifteen years, from the announcements of Simitis in 2004 to the statements for the tendering of the work by the then Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Souflias in 2009. The proposed airport will be developed through a ‘public-private partnership (PPC)’ programme and the construction company will be managed by the airport. The project promoter is the construction company ‘GEK TERNA’ in which the US YORK CAPITAL and the Indian Airport Management Company ‘GMR’ owns shares. The concession period shall be set at thirty-seven years of which five correspond to the construction and thirty-two to the operation. The state maintains 46% of this activity and will offer 180 million euros for it. The State is obliged to carry out expropriations, which at the moment touch 100 million euros and may increase, given that the value of land is high. There are reactions and judicial decisions, indeed. Let us do a simple numerical act: the state is expected to collect EUR 260 million from the concessionaire's rate, but it will have paid EUR 280 million in the meantime. Let us see another thing: the investment cost of the new airport is estimated at EUR 1.5 billion. The cost of construction of Athens Airport “Eleftherios Venizelos” was approximately EUR 2 billion between 2016 and 2000. It has four times more gates than Kastelli and serves twice as much traffic as it is planned in Kastelli. Is the cost too much? And don't say that "Eleftherios Venizelos" was made twenty years ago and there have been appreciations of construction costs. It should be recalled that, because of the financial crisis, costs should have been reduced. If you want, we can see comparisons with foreign airports. The most characteristic is Belgrade 'Nikola Tesla' airport. After his concession, in 2018, he proclaimed contraction for his extension - upgrade at a cost of only EUR 262 million, which he won, in fact, by the "TERNA" he also won for Castle. The project includes a new terminal passengers 42,000 square meters and a renovation of existing 15,000 square meters, construction of a new route of 3,500 square meters and renovation of existing 3,500 square meters along with connectors, extension of existing aircraft parking spaces of 55,000 square meters and car parks along with road, auxiliary facilities and equipment. This draft law promotes the balanced development of the regional unity of Heraklion and Crete in general, except for the planned project. We cannot discuss the creation of such a large project, an international airport, in a place already in existence and operating three airports, in Chania managed by the 'FRAPORT', Heraklion and Sitia, and, indeed, there is a compulsory change in the use of land after being set up in an area of mainly agricultural, high productivity, which will weaken the primary sector of Heraklion. A clear question arises: What about the uses of land in the surrounding area? We must realise that the nature of an entire region will change and then the nature of a whole society will change. The way and conditions of life, the natural and cultural environment, the environmental impact study is 2009. Since then, it has not been updated and in fact is not binding and serves the construction of the project without a thorough examination being carried out if this really can be done. At this point, for example, the damage that the region will suffer. You may say that the area in Kastelli is 22,000 acres, but will be affected in total 394,000 acres where three million thousand olive trees are housed, producing thirty thousand tonnes of virgin olive oil, which accounts for 10% of Greek production. It should also be noted that the slightest detection of harmful substances in oil, as well as in wine, milk and cheese will blow up the region's economy in the air. With what you're going to do, you put the tombstone in the primary sector and the Cretan products. We're talking about an ethnic plan. Two hundred thousand olive trees will be removed. The inhabitants of Kastelion directly affected are seventeen thousand five hundred. It is estimated that three and a half thousand to seven thousand farmers and related professions should change employment. As far as antiquities are concerned, in chapter 13, you recognize that there are significant possibilities for revealing antiquities in the area of project execution. It is worth mentioning in the memorial torment of antiquities of Heraklion, where Mrs Sythikaki had come and told us about these findings. It points out that in many of the location areas of the airport there are already excavated archaeological archaeological sites and standing monuments, such as the ancient city of Lytto, the Acropolis of Smari, the frescoed churches of the 14th and 15th century in the settlements of Liliano, Evangelization and Sklavorochori and the relics of the Roman water bridge in the engraving of the route Kastelli - BOAK. It should be stressed that it is impossible to assess the impact of vibration and pollution on these monuments. It is also expressly stated in Chapter 13(2) that the company undertakes to investigate the method of excavation for the existence of ancient ones, while any other costs will be borne by the State. In case other antiquities are identified, the agency is obliged to carry out an archaeological survey using its own means and expenditure of the Greek State. The four months provided by the company as sufficient time for the archaeological investigation are considered to be completely unrealistic and with the risk that the Greek State will be subject to delay clauses as described in chapter 13(6). The exhaust gases will be on the adjacent Lassithi plateau, which will be a huge disaster for producers there, but most importantly they will infect the sources from which the needs in water are met for hundreds of thousands of inhabitants. So we're talking about a damage that will result from contamination in the sources and the water-saving horizon. Also, the area of the plain with its drilling covers irrigation, but also water needs locally, as well as for Heraklion. The existing drilling contribute significantly to the water reserve. Their contamination from this scale puts the most valuable item on the island, water, to a huge risk. So in other words, you're destroying people over there. We should also highlight the issue of the prevailing winds in the region. It was heard by the institutions and specifically by Mr Mavradonakis, who said attributes: "The wind is east from the ground to 800 meters and then it becomes west, which means that they pointed out shearing, microburst, wind shear." In other words, an aircraft which will approach the runway will meet a heavy shear of about 800 metres, while accepting side winds of moderate intensity throughout the runway approach. According to statistics, 22% of the days of the year there are Eastern winds. Days ago, because of these, there were twenty cancellations. In Castelli it is estimated that we would have two hundred cancellations, because due to the southeast winds, it would not approach anything, as the valuation is deadly for the plane. Let us move on to the issue of the sustainability of this project. It is known that Heraklion Airport ‘Nikos Kazantzakis’ covers most of the needs of the Region of Crete. Statistically it is the first airport in charters flights and second in motion. As we have already mentioned, it is not the only airport in Crete. The argument of mass tourism is not enough to discuss such a relocation, since there are many factors that should be considered and perhaps it would be preferable to upgrade existing projects, which would be more economical, directly enforceable and free from micro-political interests. Also, the area of Kastellio is more than 40 km from Heraklion, making it almost the most remote airport from the internationally served city. Thirty minutes would take for someone to arrive from and to the city of Heraklion. Let us move on to the issue of affected settlements. We have heard the institutions, read the memos and follow the actions of professionals and residents. With expropriations there is a great deal of damage to landowners, as they become landowners or lose most of their farmed land at best, depriving them of an important resource. There is no care for the full social - financial rehabilitation of the owners, the expropriation of land, there is no care for the social rehabilitation of the affected. There is no prospect of relocation of the entire settlements affected, nor is there any provision for financing, in order to make sound insulation measures, for example for these buildings. And assuming that the state would compensate them and give them not only the money, but also the land, it would be another region, which would mean another morphology of the ground, which means that the products would not have the same characteristics. So we have a very big disaster. As far as jobs are concerned, we must note that a proportion of them will be covered by the staff of the existing Heraklion airport, since this will cease to work, and will be transferred to the new airport. Therefore, we cannot talk about a net number of new jobs that will arise from the operation of the new airport. To add this to the fact that there is absolutely no guarantee that the civil servants, citizens of the Region of Crete will be recruited, according to the commonly called "locals" and not foreigners, migrants, etc. Let us also mention some additional economic elements. Compensatory, 1% will be EUR 1.44 million per year. In other words, airport revenues will be EUR 164 million per year, with the exception of Airport Modernisation and Development Fee, AEA, which is thirty-three times above the current revenues of “N”. KAZADZAKIS’. If that is true, the tourist operators must consider it, because, together with the additional cost of air transport - plus fifteen minutes of flight estimated at about EUR 45 million - they will charge passengers and the tourist package with an additional EUR 210 million or EUR 65 per person, based on the three million two hundred thousand departing passengers. Under no circumstances can EUR 1,64 million annually in local government compensate for the damage to the local economy by the disappearance of the primary sector, which, for the Golden Dawn, is first and dominant, the primary sector and secondary sector tourism, especially when the company is exempted from the payment of municipal fees, as stated in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. If all the above, which I mentioned, is not scandalous and to the detriment of Greek taxpayers, then what is it? Another important element, which is negative for us, is the fact that the role of independent engineer in a private company is assigned, in particular, to ‘HILL INTERNATIONAL’, even if it has been selected by an international competition. It is a company based in the United States of America, listed on the New York Stock Exchange and has already been involved in other projects such as the TAP pipeline, the port of Piraeus, the Star of Vouliagmeni etc. The fact that it employs ninety people in Greece does not say anything about us, since many more engineers of all specialties under the auspices of the TEI and other stakeholders, such as the Civil Aviation Agency, who holds expertise and expertise in the design and supervision of airports. Moreover, the TEI should normally have the role of supervisor and auditor of major infrastructure projects, since, among other things, one reason for its creation was precisely that. Our country has unstable sources of trained scientific staff, and you have fled to a foreign private company. You could use our country's scientific potential before making such moves. Finally, it is important to mention the parallel use of the military airport. Let us not forget that there are constant challenges from the Turks and that, therefore, there will be protracted tensions. What's going to happen? When the Turks violate the Aegean and the F-16 will have started machines, waiting for the green light to take off, the traffic of the political planes will freeze and imagine that the F-16 intercepts are on a daily basis. So can you understand the consequences that this will have for tourism, for passengers' suffering due to long delays and for changing scheduled arrivals - aircraft departures? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, please. In summary, therefore, this modern airport has a series of implications in all areas and the reality differs greatly from what the government wants to present. To add to this the lack of integrated spatial planning, the lack of organised combined transport plan, the lack of a waste and accompanying project. SYRIZA denounced the pharaonic works and said it would be against them when he would take over the rule. Instead, he has announced pharaonic works, serving national contractors and colonial types of logic, but many are pharaonic errors. The sale of existing infrastructure, as well as the advance sale of future infrastructure, such as in this case of public property or more appropriately, of the property of the Greek people, has no stopping. The disastrous work of loan sharks for our homeland and people continues as their genuine underhand, selling or giving everything at a price of opportunity. You haven't left anything standing. The airports will also be sold out, such as the airports of Alexandroupolis, Ioannina, Kozani, Kastoria, Nea Anchialos, Kalamatas, Araxos, Limnos, Chios, Ikaria, Skyros, Milos, Naxos, Paros, Syros, Kalymnos, Astypaleas, Sitia, Leros, Kassos, Karpathos, Kytheros and Kastelorizou. What is now clear is that, at the start and completion of this process, the country will have its thirty-nine political airports, namely that of Athens, Heraklion, the fourteen airports of the "FRAPORT GREECE" and in addition to the above airports. We, as Golden Dawn, say "yes" to the creation of infrastructure projects that will be the lever to upgrade the local and national economy, but under full control and full responsibility for the implementation and operation of the Greek State as a public property and property of the Greek people, and that can only be done by a national state, which will put the interest of the Greek people above all else. However, under the terms signed by this convention, which is fully in line with the policy of extinguishing everything, we cannot agree, and therefore we are voting against this bill. I would like to close, Mr President, since Mr Moraitis is here, saying that in 2017 he said that three Oscar Governments deserve three Oscars, failure, turbulence and division. We're totally in agreement. As far as I'm not concerned with the SYRIZA - ANEL government, he said it's the greatest political deception of postmulsion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u33	Because it follows another meeting, please everyone who takes the floor to make an effort to be within the limits. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. The concession contract under discussion relates to the country's second-large airport in Kastelli Pedadas, Heraklion Crete. This is a private airport. The Greek State grants private colleges the exclusive right to study, construction, financing, operation, maintenance and operation of the new international airport of Heraklion Crete, as well as to study, construction and financing of its road connections. The Government in the explanatory memorandum invokes as a more appropriate form of the concession contract because, it says, transparency, public interest guarantee, healthy competition, respect and protection of the environment is guaranteed. Lies. There is absolutely no guarantee of any of this. Neither publicity nor transparency nor the environment nor the health of the people of the region. The allegedly healthy competition it invokes is the cherries in the cake, knowing that competition, whether healthy or unhealthy, facilitates the hunting of profits for monopolies, ensures their sovereignty on the market, and loses the people themselves with expensive tickets, expensive air transport services. Entrepreneurs do not put a euro in their pockets for the new airport. On the basis of the agreement, the consortium enters the project with EUR 5 million of share capital, while the state subsidizing it with 180 million, i.e. the Greek people's money and the state, as well, is also charged with expropriations. The consortium is provided for in the contract to have an annual profit of EUR 80 million. This means that in six years it will be amortised, while it is planned to receive the ‘Standard’ in full, when the Civil Aviation Service for the Airport ‘N. KAZADZAKIS” has not taken a single cent from that all these years. Even the rush to quickly fall the first scaffolding and complete the project in 2024 is related to the profits that the consortium seeks to secure from the “stopping”. It is known that by law in 2017 the ‘stamp’ of EUR 20 fell to EUR 12 and in 2024 from EUR 12 the value of falling to EUR 3. This is why the government - and obviously the private, the municipality, the district - is in a hurry to finish the project in 2024: so that it does not lose the benefits of the'slaughterhouse'. The one who will, of course, be charged the cost of building, managing and operating the consortium is the people themselves, in order to ensure the uninterrupted profitability of the consortium. Subsequently, the popular mattresses will again be called upon to pay superb carpets, tolls as users for the construction, maintenance and operation of the northern road axis and the connecting road axles from and to the airport. It is a project that will ensure huge and certainly profits in the consortium, through the gross state funding, the loan that the taxpayer people will pay for and the free work of hundreds of workers, who will be working as modern slaves with the "Turkey" of recruitment locality, with the dissolved working relationships guaranteed by the current and previous governments. The self-employed in tourism, and in general microtourism, will be affected. The novelty of these colonial conventions in modern times for our country began many decades ago, with governments of New Democracy and PASOK. The New Democracy prepared and tendered concessions for the airport of Spata, Attica, the bridge Rio-Antirio and many other works, while in turn the PASOK signed them and voted as government. The European Union from the Maastricht Treaty and the White Paper on competitiveness describes the transport sector as a fundamental strategic sector, because it is related to the objectives of construction, trade, energy and tourism for certain and fast profits. I would remind you that the convention of this new private airport in Kastelli, the privatisation of the ten airports in the country and their delivery to the 'FRAFORT', the privatisation and the new invention of the retreat of the ten most profitable ports in the country. This new airport is part of a more general plan to serve multiple, local and foreign business projects in the region, which the people will not benefit. A private airport can never guarantee employment, wage and insurance rights. They will be subject to, both in construction and in its operation, conditions of abstraction, humiliating parties, terrorism in the workplace, circumvention of daily and weekly working time and much more. Of course, neither a state airport in capitalism can in itself secure labour rights, when the State itself, with its governments, legislates counter-measures and promotes favourable investment conditions and conditions for construction groups. This is the 'fair development' promised by SYRIZA or the'sustainable development' promised in turn by the New Democracy. This development is reflected in the regional planning of the island for conversion to a commercial, tourist and energy centre of the Mediterranean. The Region of Crete has been charged with its own anti-grassroots role, facilitating and coordinating major projects, implementing the general policy of the European Union and the Government, which prioritises the strengthening of large enterprises, with greater burdens on the people and cuts, marketing or privatising works and services for citizens. In the energy sector, the exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons south of Crete, the spread of private renewable energy sources, wind turbines, photovoltaics, hybrids, as well as power transmission cables from Israel's gas pipelines are under way. Tourism launches new fast track investments - apart from old ones - on hotel takeovers and much more. As far as the construction of public works is concerned, these gather rapidly in the hands of a few construction groups. The new airport in Kastelli will have a dual use both as a civilian and as a military-natial airport. The new infrastructures, the airways give NATO's far more upgraded military and spy role in the wider Mediterranean region, particularly in the eastern Mediterranean and North Africa, in fact, by providing many facilities, including NATO's exclusion from the collection of aviation and activities charges. A colonial contract could not serve the geopolitical and military interests of NATO and the United States, since the government, New Democracy and KINAL agree with the country's involvement in the naval planning in the region. That is why the SYRIZA Government is participating - and indeed, as a signifier - in the US and NATO war plans. The high cost of air transport will not be borne by the tour-operators, nor by the big-time operators, who are not willing to increase the cost of the packages, nor by the price of the night. It will be transferred to the wages of hotel staff and already greedy, expensive flight tickets. By this contract, the Government grants private investors the right to determine, impose and collect airport charges and revenues from the operation of commercial activities of the new airport. But there, where the government gives its change to the literality, and of course the New Democracy and the KINAL - PASOK, along with the district manager, mayors, MPs and others, are taxis, are the so-called 'compensatory benefits'. The company, as the contract says, is required to pay the Greek State from total revenues only 2% of total revenues in exchange for compensation: 1% in the Municipality of Minoa Pediadas and 1% in favour of the development of the OTAs in the Regional Unit of Heraklion. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The company, however, will enjoy privileged treatment at the same time, since it is exempted from all kinds of municipal fees and taxes, and does not fall under the law on the payment of a Single Property Tax, other taxes and duties on immovable property, as is the case with other citizens. That's what the people say. They share seaweeds for silk ribbons as new Mavroyalous, they announce jobs with the bag because of the elections, but also to gold the pill of the robbery. Ice-creators, MPs, mayors, districtlors, and people - especially young people - have already gone out to prepare the curriculum. If he's not Mavroyaluro, what is he? There's another designation to give. So you don't get any misunderstandings? The contract says that two thousand three hundred employees will be employed as personnel at the airport and companies. But today's airport already employs two thousand three hundred people. Where does it appear to be new jobs? How much can new jobs, however, compensate for the disappearance of the region and employment in the agricultural sector? Even those who are employed, either in the construction of the airport, or in the operation of the airport, will be in the working conditions of a full-time, cheap labour force. They burn up to thirty thousand new jobs. Like this. What does it cost? Nothing! The JRC, ladies and gentlemen, supports with all its powers the struggle of the local population against the realisation of the investment. As a JRC, we do not enter or enter any debate if the unit rate for expropriations is profitable to the inhabitants, precisely because the JRC is contrary to the contract, private investment, the region's destruction. The area is covered by two million registered olive trees and other crops, many thousand acres of pastures, with the largest cheese plants in Crete and three large wineries. The slightest detection of harmful substances in oil, wine, milk and cheese will blow up the already damaged region economy from the timeless anti-grassroots and anti-government policies of all governments. Profy hunting has dramatic repercussions, among other things, on flight safety, despite any scientific and technological achievements. Are you going to tell me: whether it's in Castelli or elsewhere, is there not that risk? Sure. And that is exactly what the JRC raises, that this is a private airport, so it will move and operate on the basis of the principles and rules governing the operation of such an airport. First of all, they are exploited privilegedly by stronger airlines to maintain and strengthen their position on the international market. Profit hunting results in intensive use, intensification of workers, in the use of unskilled personnel, i.e. in the formulation of conditions of reduction in flight safety. Competitiveness and entrepreneurship are incompatible with the protection of flights and respect for human life. In other words, profit incentive, individual ownership in developed means of production and transport are the cause of minimum protection for the safety of work and life itself. The government of SYRIZA and the other parties are trying in a wicked way to turn the confrontation to "if we want Castelli or Loxus in Alikarnassos". The JRC does not fall into such logic, nor does it fall into such traps. Our opposition to the concession agreement to the monopolistic groups is not fatal and acceptance of the plaque runway. Besides, the JRC and no political force are study offices. The JRC merely puts political dimensions into consideration, takes people's needs into account as a criterion, asking the question 'Development from whom and for whom?' and not "What serves construction companies and big-speakers". There has never been any real dialogue, particularly with the local residents. And when this happened, it was with the gun on the front, blackmailing the press "Would you want growth or poverty?" And they ask who? Those who have led to poverty and unemployment in the new generation now suffer pain. We call on the people to draw their conclusions, to escalate their struggle, claiming to remain in their fields against the common agricultural policy, which destroys them, against the investment that unravels them. Where the airport is to be built should not be said to the monopolistic construction and tourist groups, which have as a criterion ensure their profitability. The criterion must be to satisfy the current popular needs for comfortable, cheap, safe air transport. Before selecting the new airport, the State, all governments, had to prepare scientific studies, fully documented and certified, by public scientific bodies, with the stamp and signature of the relevant Ministry, which would take into account all environmental, territorial, climate specificities of the region, changes in land use and the risks it has in agricultural production and in the income of producers, the issues of public health protection and much more. The JRC shall not isolate the location of the airport by the operator of construction and management and the overall criteria that determine it. And, in our view, this is the point. The JRC argues that the development and planning of transport and access to them must satisfy the modern popular needs, be part of a centrally-designed economy, which is an incentive to develop popular prosperity rather than profit. Therefore, a planned development of transport with a view to social well-being presupposes the social ownership of public transport and their production. And that is, above all, a political issue, which is linked to a radical change in the character of power. The axes of such a policy, in our view, must be: cheap, modern, secure, interconnected public transport to and from the airport in relation to the individual modes of transport, energy savings and environmental protection, economic development designed to eliminate regional imbalances and complete control of national defence and safety with the specific weights of air transport, an airport, in our opinion, should be part of a state vertically integrated national air transport operator, to which all air operations from groundhandling, supply services up to the technical base and flight work, as well as the exclusiveity of domestic lines and their infrastructure as a popular property will belong. The JRC calls on the people to reject the policy of the single European sky, privatizations, to oppose the policy of liberalisation of air transport and to privatise them. Flight security is the responsibility of Greece and can not be given to NATO. We believe that it is the responsibility of the State to secure flights, to protect human life, regardless of the cost of it. This is why we claim cheap tickets for the people's family, the full coverage of the transport needs of the remote islands and regions. Speaking to the Kastelians, we have to tell them clearly, openly, that the Government, the Municipality of Minos Pediadas, the Region of Crete, the district manager plays the consortium game, the interests are defended and promoted. Which, of course, disagreement of the Golden Dawn is based on holocaustism, limiting the disagreement of opportunity to the destruction of the region, distracting from the general point of view that this is a private airport completely controlled by the US and NATO. The representatives of the consortium reached the point of giving credit to Mr Spirtzi, the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Arnautakis, Provincial Administrator and Provincial candidate again, Mr. Kalogerakis, Mayor and re-applicant mayor. They were given the credit, and, indeed, by taking the word, they said: “We have nothing else to say. We were fully covered by both the Minister and the mayor and the district chief." So all these are the most genuine, representative political representatives of private interests, sacrificing the interests of the inhabitants of the region of Kastelion. We also call on the people in the coming elections - which is a first-class opportunity - to punish those parties - mayors and districtlors - with his vote, which is a vote against the convention, a vote that wants to put an end to this policy and support the JRC in the European elections and the People's Alliance in the municipalities and regions. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the JRC has tabled an amendment concerning the permanentisation of five-year contracted fire extinguishers. We call on the Minister to accept it. It's a fair request. Needs shall also be recorded over time in the issues of fire safety, forest protection, anti-military and earthquake shielding of the country. The tragic consequences of this are at the expense of forest ecosystems, public infrastructure, property, life, and make it imperative for the immediate cover of thousands of empty positions resulting from the response of staff from the relevant bodies, namely the Firehouse, the Forest Service and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. The Government, in the midst of recruitment to local government agencies of five thousand sixty-sixths of people with public works programmes and eight-month public contracts, recognises the major shortcomings in this sector, which the JRC has constantly pointed out, but does not give a substantial solution to the periodicity of their treatment. With all these problems, therefore, which exist from the lack of staff, the JRC tabled the amendment to ensure stable working relationships for a thousand four hundred sixty-sixty-fifth-fifth-fifth-year obligation, which do not meet the criteria for classification in the Fire Corps, as well as for the thousands of two hundred-fifth-fifth-fifth-fifth-fifth-fifth-fifth-fifth-fifth-fifth-fifth-fifth-lift firefighters. As far as restructuring is concerned, Mr President, it is nothing new. Every time it comes and is treated as a temporary solution, and especially every time the terrible situation in the football field is derailed. And this government - and the previous ones - is trying to keep this terrible situation in certain balances. We will vote'residents' in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House thirty-one students and students and five educational attendants from the 1st Krokos Kozanis Municipal School and from the 9th Municipal School of Chios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Liberaki, rapporteur for the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin today under the title of the bill that we are discussing, namely, "Preparation of the Project of Study - Construction - Financing - Operation - Maintenance and Operation of the New International Airports of Heraklion Crete and Study - Construction and Financing of its Roads". The reason why I want to start with the title is because it is important to avoid the policy of the wet cat, but to say, but to do so, and when we make it look elsewhere, which we use in our political system. We must say clearly and say it all, or whatever, all of us agree with this ratification of a contract, what the public wins from a concession contract, that is what it wins when it collides with the private sector. We need to stop this acute and poisonous rhetoric about phasing out public property that incriminates entrepreneurship and keeps us back, because every time we stay behind, everyone else runs forward and counts for decades. Under this contract, the public limited company "International Airport of Heraklion Crete", with shareholders of the Greek State by 45.9% and the companies "TERNA" and "GMR AIRPORTS" with 54.1%, will study, build, finance, maintain and exploit for thirty-five years the new airport of Heraklion, giving 1% of the revenues to the Greek State, which will in turn give 1% of its revenues - not two, one, but one - to the Municipality of Minoa Pedodos which hosts the project and another 1% more to the municipalities of Heraklion to become other complementary, developmental and co-financed projects that are necessary. Of course, as well as the airport, important new road construction projects will also be carried out and there will be upgrading of existing roads. The cooperation between the public and private sectors is therefore in the interests of the public interest. It is important to say this clearly, because our ideas cost delays, job losses and, above all, public revenues. This idealism seems very well, very clearly how it worked - badly - in the case of the Greek who sits unexploited for eighteen years now, as if we were not in crisis, as if we did not need investment, as if we did not want a growth impetus for our economy. The new international airport for us, Potami, is clear that it is necessary for Crete, necessary for Heraklion, necessary for Greece all. It is a major, important infrastructure project for the country. It's not just because it's the second in passenger traffic in the country. That would be enough on its own. It is that it can grow much longer. Let me remind you that as early as 2008 this site had been selected for the installation of the new international airport and the public-private partnership had also been decided. Then SYRIZA had voted against, then became stop - go delays, etc., the competitions came out, and in 2014 there was a jargon again. Finally, the competition took place in 2016, which brought us one single offer. Why am I saying this? I don't think it's a fuss. However, I think we should draw some conclusions from this process. The first is that it has had to spend eleven whole years from the original law until ratification of the contract. We cannot call that a success. It could have been less. The second thing is that after eleven years of confrontation, stop-go, and ambiguity, there was only one candidate contractor. I do not think this is a success either, without it being a sale. No way. But they should have been more. There are not many Cretans or Iraclea in the world and it goes without saying that international interest should have been very great. The third point I want to say is the time horizon of the project. Like all major projects, they do not have time to be arrested, planned, carried out, run into a government's term of office. This period of 11 years has seen four, five different governments, without counting the ones that are before elections, which are official. It does not belong to such a project - it cannot and must not belong to a government. We used to say that this project belongs to the citizens of the country, to the Greek people. Governments need to understand it: They must be parts which make it easier for projects belonging to the entire Greek people to be carried out. This means that they have to have a little more generosity in how they act and in the time when they are government and when they are opposition, because otherwise we do not go any further. To denounce each other according to their position, except that it creates delays, but that it has evidence of ridiculousness, has evidence and poisoning of the world's conviction in democracy and in parliamentary law. And that for me is even more important than the revenue foregone, the jobs that we lose, and so on, without meaning that we do not need them desperately too. This is therefore intended to complete the airport in five years' time. Let me have a reservation on the integration horizon. I hope he's not much older. In fact, I hope that I will not be confirmed at all and finalised in five years. But the history of eleven years is probably a little bored. This investment will create thousands of jobs directly, but also indirectly. It will cost around EUR 480 million - it is a very large project - of which 180 million will be a public financial contribution and 220 million from both companies, the 'TERNA' and the 'GMR AIRPORTS'. Some EUR 125 million is also expected to come from the modernisation and development of airports at the existing airport. It is clear that we are confident that this convention will be ratified. This does not mean that we are not listening very carefully and we do not want to highlight a number of aspects raised by the debate in the committee with the bodies and, above all, the memorandum tabled by the Mayor of Minoa Pedias, Mr Kalogerakis, concerning mainly environmental impacts. Although predicting environmental impacts is not a new exercise, it is still, to a large extent, a new one from the point of view of being able to improve. It is important that we have our ears and eyes open for the direct environmental impacts, but also for the side-effects, that is, what happens, what needs for anti-milling projects, to say, will have the border regions for which we are talking about. The idea of voluntary relocation of settlements bordering the airport would be good to examine within the financial framework of a country facing a long-term crisis. The expropriations must have a fair price, but above all they must be made quickly, because the good price very soon is a very bad price. And we need to understand that, because in the past we thought that as far as we were concerned for the best solution, we would have better results. I hear the call from the Municipality of Minoa Pediadas, the name of the airport to be the International Airport of Heraklion - Kastelion. I can hear it because the name has a meaning, and I believe that it really has a value for people to be proud of their place and of the projects that are being done. However, what I would like to stress most is the need to think quickly, to discuss, to disagree, to consent to a programme for exploiting the previous airport, 'Nikos Kazantzakis'. It is a very pity, it is unacceptable that we have a second case of Greek. I do not want to consume all my time, but I would like to tell you that airports stories are difficult decisions and I will tell you the example of the construction of Berlin International Airport, because I think it is indicative. We usually use examples of other projects in Greece or other projects in countries that do not work like a clock in the state. The Berlin case is a screwed-up case in a country that operates like a Swiss clock and has soaked it up in the creation of Berlin International Airport. In 1990, they decided that they should instead have two small airports, Tegel and Shonefeld, which were West and East Berlin respectively, to build a new large one called Brandenburg. First they said they'd say it that way. It was finalised in 2005. In 2006 it started to be built. The original horizon was to end in 2011, five years later. And that, like us. Eleven delays have been officially announced so far. The last one was this year and they renamed it in autumn 2020. It is considered almost certain that it will go in 2021. The reason for the continuous postponements is bad planning, poor implementation of construction, bad management and, of course, a lot of corruption. The original plan had a budget of 2.83 billion. Already, now that we're talking, it's hit 5.4 billion. I say this because it matters, in Germany, these things happen. And we predict that by 2021 it will be over to 7.6 billion. Suffice it to tell you how bad it is that at some point they decided to call it Willy Brand. He had taken Nobel, anyway, is a name that has some meaning and a radiation and inside and outside Germany. After all these very long delays and failures, because they have tried twice to make PPPs and put the private sector in, and they have not succeeded, and now the Landers of Brandenburg and Berlin are handling it and they have been soaked, while we have managed to do PPPs and that is important. So badly the case that Willy Brandt Foundation, the Foundation for the Management of Memory on Willy Brandt, is talking very seriously about withdrawing the permission to use the name Willy Brandt for Berlin International Airport, because it gives a bad name to a very important nature of politics, peace, disarmament and understanding. I would like to say that we are ahead of the implementation of a difficult contract. Not difficult, because there are the 'black crows' with nails on top of us, but it is difficult because it is a huge task because it has to work well because roads have to function like a clock. Needless to say, the German railroads - not to think it is entirely for the balls - already have the station that was going to take the passengers and who are now making very serious complaints against the company. So it's hard what we're going to do. Let's not conjure up what you said, what you do, what you want. Let's move forward. It will certainly be for the benefit of all of us, not only of development, but of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u37	Thank you to Mrs Lyberakis and to ensure that the time is respected. The Minister for Justice, Mr Michalis Kalogerou, has the floor to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u38	The amendment is general number 2164 and specific number 63. Our amendment concerns an amendment to the provision of Article 24(3) of Law 2530/1997. The provision stipulates that officials, officials and employees in the public sector if they have a legal and second place in the public sector in local authorities and in other legal entities governed by public law, then their salaries from this second position may not exceed 30% of the first position. Now, in the case of judicial officers who are also teaching staff at the Higher Education Institutions until now, this provision is not applicable. In other words, they receive the whole. The 30% limitation is not applicable. This, in line with the opinions of the Legal Council of the State - in support of this position, I will table the minutes of the 9th General Meeting of the Court of Auditors of 2000 and Opinion 422 of 2005 - what does that mean? What happened? An express provision that provides for the non-restriction of 30% does not exist. There has never been that provision. [[At this point the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Michael Kalogerou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Nevertheless, I repeat that for judiciary officials and teachers at higher education institutions, it was not implemented. Why wasn't it applicable? Due to the exceptional care available in the Constitution, which allows judges only to perform beyond their duties and their teaching duties. So the excellentness of the Constitution was this recital, say, the basis and the seat for this provision. All this happened until 2017. In 2017, there was a decision by the F Department of the Council of State, where an appeal was made against a specific university against a judicial officer who had received more than 30%. There the Council of State said that this is not the case - it did not go into constitutional matters - that there is no explicit provision on this matter and that it is at the discretion of the legislator to expressly establish, in particular, the teaching staff who are also judicial officers. This is said in the State General Accounting Report that the provision is currently covered by four judicial officers who are also university professors. The social political issue, which is regulated by this provision, is, in my opinion, even more incentives for judiciary officials who meet the conditions to also be members of the academic community and to strengthen the academic community with their knowledge and experience, so that there is no question about this issue. To say this practically, as we all understand it, for the judicial officers who perform their duties and must travel to other cities to teach universities, etc., 30% that reaches - let me say - to cover their necessary costs. Therefore, it needs an even strong incentive. Two are the paragraphs to the amendment. The first subparagraph provides that the limitation of the previous subparagraph does not occupy the judicial officers holding, in accordance with Article 89(2) of the Constitution, a permanent establishment of teaching staff of higher education institutions. The second provision stipulates that the remuneration received by judicial officers from second place as members of teaching staff, beyond the limits laid down in the first subparagraph of Article 24(3) of Law 2530/1997, shall be considered legal and not sought. To avoid any misunderstanding, I'm telling you they haven't been sought. We are therefore not going to solve a problem that has already been created at the level of the search for funds. There have been no accusations, but I think it is right that this has not been done and also because of the constant practice that has been followed over these years, that there should be specific arrangements to avoid further problems. Thank you very much, I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I would ask the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u40	Here, you have the floor, but don't have to have a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u41	Minister, the first paragraph of the provision, do you have any evidence of how many public and public workers are involved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u42	No, because what we come to predict is what happens to judiciary officials who also have a permanent post of teaching staff. Therefore, what we have looked at is how many people are, which is why I told you that they are four and according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, the annual expenditure does not exceed EUR 109 000 per year. The other part, i.e. the people who have a second place in the public sector, I think that it can only be sought through either the Ministry of Interior or the General Accounting Office of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u44	To present an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u45	I would like to give a clarification, because something has been said and we have a corresponding amendment, now that the Minister for Justice is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u46	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u47	It has also been established on the occasion of the Kastelian airport that a series of expropriations to our fellow citizens, who are mainly agricultural workers and who are expropriated by the vast majority of the land they cultivate, who are their lives, needs another treatment. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] That is why there is a commitment both from me and from the Minister of Justice in the next few years, because it is also a serious legal issue, and it is not possible to make a rough piece of legislation today with an amendment, to bring in a regulation that will speed up the time, but will also entitle the people who take them on agricultural land to have a protection of primary production.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u48	Mr Vassiliou has the floor for an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. These are two amendments. I will develop the amendment with a general number of 2162 and a special 61, which concerns restructuring and a new structure of professional categories in professional football. In August 2018, the Executive Committee of the EEA decided to change the structure of the championships by creating a new intermediate category and at the same time to establish new rules, in cooperation with the General Secretariat of Sports. With this amendment we come after the introduction of both the Football Federation and the professional lyrics on the structure, on where each of the pounds will belong, on other issues relating to central television management, rights, on the redistribution of revenues between the groups and between the categories so that we can have professional categories sustainable, so that we can overcome the basic problem that we have had two professional categories and a third national, which were non-viable, and so that we live what we have been through the previous period, groups to leave half of the championship, not withstand financially, to seek various ways of surviving. These changes also come with an overall framework for reducing the capital required in the categories so that it is not unbearable, especially in the small provincial groups, to be able to set up a football company. The main point - and I would like to stress here - is the redistribution of revenue so that we do not relive what we have experienced in previous years because of the economic crisis and also the terrible problems that have led to the fall in the commercialisation of Greek football. With all this and the changes that next season will be announced in the professional category Super Liga, try to rebuild a financial product like professional football. I would like to point out this for an economy of time: the amendment does not exist and does not refer to a number of groups to the effect that we do not lose, even if there is disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u50	Here you need to clarify what you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u51	That's right. The number of groups that play in each category is decided by the Federation, not by the state. The state puts the classes structures, first, second, third, third, A1, A2, second, as they are here. From there on, I understand that a debate has begun, which should have started since last summer, when it became a reality, because we are currently ratifying something that has been done this summer. There are some objections mainly from groups of the previous III nationality. I know that the Federation understands them, recognises them and the margin allowed by this amendment, if any - but this is a matter of not involving a state-of-the-federal - of remedial movements in terms of A2, that is, two groups being larger and having three categories with 14 groups. I can tell you again that this is not in the amendment. It's in the decision of the NCA. That is not Parliament's concern. They're about the Federation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u53	As a major debate may begin, we must develop them, Madam President, so I need some time. I say that to be clear about what we are talking about today. From there on, this project is obviously under the approval of the international federations and the European and the World, given the general problem that exists and comes after the legislative change we made a month ago in the Committee on Professional Sport and the way in which professional groups are controlled and operated. We believe it helps rationalize and create a serious framework for professional football. The second amendment, with a general number 2167 and a special 65, relates to the management of the Ano Liosia Olympic Centre, which, from the EBRD, comes back to the General Secretariat of Sports, in order to create further sustainable sporting facilities within one of the subordinate bodies of the General Secretariat of Sports and to solve problems of housing for large groups in our efforts to help so that all major clubs can find solutions that are of interest to the public, but also to ensure the sustainability of sports facilities. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u54	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty students and students and four teachers from the 56th Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u55	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u56	Do you now want to comment on the amendment? When it's discussed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u57	Will the amendments go beyond what is necessary?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u58	No, but at this stage are the clarifications made?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u59	Sure. Then the Minister will leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u60	Don't let him go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u61	I don't understand your objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u62	I say this to get into the list of speakers at some point. He's another minister for an amendment. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u63	The amendment is important. Minister, we in the New Democracy do not question either the self-government of football, nor that the teams should be economically viable, nor the state's obligation to legislate in the decisions of the General Assembly of the football organs. What we want to know today is as follows: Since the General Assembly of the EBRD decided last August, why are you legislating today, at the end of the championships, thus creating, if you like, stifling any programming in the air, having captured, having captured many historical groups that have let them believe that what is, unfortunately, always in place in our country is 'never more modern than the temporary one', if your legislation is in line with what the European and World Football Federation is planning for the structural changes that need to be made, giving time to prepare and plan at least two years, if all the lands are technically ready for these changes with the new developments that we have in football and all these issues, if they are equipped with our lands. Why do we arrive today, Minister, in this amendment, to create a sense of injustice and caging for at least ten historical groups in the country? You're coming here today to tell us that you've made a restructuring of charges, that is, what? Basically, you are baptizing the categories that remain the same. You bring nothing new and the number of teams will be decided by the football organs. But that is not the case, Minister. The decision by the general assembly, but also by your amendment today, is also largely regulated by the number of groups. The fact that the NCA is sympathetic to the sense of injustice which is affecting Olympiacos Volos today, Aegaleo and eight others, nine, ten teams, PAS Giannina - historical unions - and to say that 'participating in their sadness' is a memorial, is not an amendment. So we ask you why you have delayed the legislature so much. That's the epitome of bad legacy, because it's a retrospective legacy. When the state that is called upon to legislate, knows and what are the champions' teams and what have been downgraded, that is legal certainty, Minister? We're talking business, football anonymouss. First round, second round, expenses, money, transcripts and you let them believe that the changes will go from next year or in two years, such as international practice, because we can't make any changes on the knee or hasty. You're coming now to throw the ball at the PD. Why are you doing this? In other words, you say that the new categories will be better and more economically viable because of funding. I told you we didn't disagree on that. What about those groups that will not be involved? The aim of each group - you know it better - either in the first, or in the second, or in the Third National, is to reach the big category. Are champions, such as Olympiacos Volos, approaching a step towards the great category of the country with your amendment? Oh, no! They are trapped in the same category as they played until today. That's the epitome of bad legacy. That is why the New Democracy has been placed, saying that it will say 'no' to this amendment. Neither do we disagree on the sustainability of the groups, nor on the self-employed, nor on your obligation to legislate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u64	You have not requested any clarifications, you have tabled your disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u65	I asked for clarification as to why he was late to legislate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u66	Madam President, I would like the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u68	I would like to ask the Minister this. Since the decision by the NCA etc. had been taken from August 2018 to reconstruct the charges, and since we had bills from the Ministry of Sport that came up in this period so far, why does something so important come as an amendment to a treaty ratification, without listening to institutions and without the consultation that we should do? Don't you think that's how you're wrong with this particular matter or this House, which seems to be rather decorative?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u69	Mr Vasiliade, you have the floor for one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u70	There's another colleague who needs clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u71	Hey, okay. One more can come now. Am I going to give him the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u72	What can we do, Madam President? It's a legacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u73	I'm sorry, we're either doing a procedure or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u74	Let's talk for a minute. After my colleague asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u75	Here, Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u76	Good evening, Minister. We followed a final closed door, which did not miss the incidents between the guests. We see in the basketball championship that instead of helping with your interventions, you are making the climate worse, you are triggering the climate. We see that with anything you're swallowing, there's a problem. You have promised us the regularity of all four years of governance of SYRIZA - ANEL and now 'unfavourable', no final cup has been carried out as he deserves. And you are now coming and you are tabling an amendment, while the championship has been completed, and while all the participants, throughout the year, were plundering the daisy if the restructuring comes or not. In addition, the two occupational categories are added one more. Do you know how many problems the smaller categories have, Minister, what happens in the province or in other groups, which are in smaller categories, even today that we are talking about? Also, the teams that played in the existing III category this year and were not advanceed, nor degraded, lose a category. You said to your previous interview, but today - I was on my way and listening to it - that some groups were dealt with in Category III and that the NCA would try. In your interview you said that you will try and that you are here to discuss it. I'll submit it to the Minutes. You said you would be open to hear the injustices and some of them would be restored. Nowadays, you put the ball on the NSA. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for practical purposes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What, then, is going to happen with those class III groups, for example, that were neither degraded nor advanceed? Are you going to call them back to play in July soccer? This restructuring is on the leg. It doesn't help anyone. One group has already appealed to justice - PAS Yiannna - because this amendment was tabled after the end of the championship and the scores have been obtained. Is that normal for you, will this solve problems for you, or will it create much more? During the year there were interventions, they came to meetings that you had and were certainly announced to the media that they asked you to apply from time to time. All right, all the opposition to the bills is ignored and you have no consensus. We asked you in the recent bill that was passed, to break some articles, so that we could vote on them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u77	Mrs Karamanlis, you're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u78	Look, I can never talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u79	The Minister had spoken. Half said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u80	You always bring them in the form of topography into unrelated bills, as is this amendment using the Ano Liosian closest. A month ago, we didn't have a bill where we could discuss all this? What's the delay? Don't let the teams know what they have to do, where to start and where to end? Do you think that's right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u81	Madam President, should we also comment on the amendment for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u82	Comment, too, to get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u83	No, Madam President, it is not like that, 'to comment, to finish'. It is an amendment which affects several groups, historical groups and, by extension, the cities hosted by these groups. It is an amendment which comes just a year from the so-called agreement that the Minister says, because there was another meeting of the WEU in April, which he rightly said should be restructured. But, Minister, he said to be from the next season and not from the coming. That is why you then went and actually blackmailed them with television rights to change their decision, which you say was positive. I believe that you cannot deny me in that, that there was a decision by the NRA in April, which was saying that it should take place from 2020-2021. There were some groups, the champions of the Third National, who are currently affected. As has been said, it is also Olympiacos Volos, a historic team, which is affected, because last summer she made her budget, made her preparation, came out of a great champion and today, after she has finished the championship, where she has won her second class climbing, her second class category - to tell her things as they are - suddenly found by the coming season playing again in her third class category. You come today, as Pontius Pilate, to say: 'I do not say how many teams the federation will play, that is what the relevant federation decides'. So, you throw the ball in the federation without you taking responsibility for it after a year. And as has been said again, there were such bills. Every day we are here in the Greek Parliament. Since the amendment was ready, since it was decided in the summer, why didn't you bring it here from the summer, to know the teams before it started and not after the championship was finished? This is a global originality! After the championship is finished, the categories of teams participating in September are regulated! That's not happening in Uganda either. Of course, neither in Uganda is the final of the cup, namely the second largest organization of our country, behind closed doors, and once it has been closed down - the first unacceptable phenomenon - taking place within those who had been invited. That's not happening anywhere in the world. And the accusations should be settled after the championship is finished and, of course, there should be incidents in the end of the doors. We would like to ask you to organize a little, to see the problem, to withdraw the amendment. You don't have to testify today. Let's see it again. Nor is there any rush for this restructuring to be done after the championship has been finished. Be quiet to see her before you go, if you want to fruit her. Until September when the election takes place, here we are. But to do this, Minister, before each group begins its preparation. Count her base, calculate her transcripts from there on, know, and what championship she'll be participating in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty students and students and four teachers attending school in Thessaloniki. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Vassiliade, because other comments and questions have been added, you have two moments strictly. Answer whether you can withdraw it, which is the essential.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u85	Watch out. First of all, we need to get out of the debate some things wrong and unrighteous that have been heard. Everyone knew since last year and those who were preparing for how many teams would rise and how many teams would fall, as well as the new structure. They knew it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u86	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u87	But there's a decision. The championships are organized on the basis of federal decisions. If you ask my personal opinion of how many teams should be in professional championships, my view is that there should be three categories of ten teams. Clearly. The football federation and the pounds, if you remember the conversation that took place last summer, when we said ten or twelve groups, insisted on fourteen. You understand that the structure and number of groups are doing what the federation decides. That's why we accepted fourteen. From there on, when it should be done, you know last year, when the discussion on restructuring took place in the summer, the football federation and the liga asked for changes not to take place immediately and to take place next year. That is to say, the current one, the one we have spent this year and the changes to take place now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u88	Is this unconnected to one another next year?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u89	In that sense, changes will never be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u90	Unconnected? Since the next year depends on the previous year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u91	Listen to me. I heard you and I didn't interrupt you. I understand the local sensations we all have. But listen to something clear. There was an integrated proposal on television, including funding, concerning new fields, and it concerned everything. If that didn't happen and there was no restructuring... First of all, first of all, a lie. How many exactly teams would they go up to the second national? All champions? Or only four?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u92	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u93	Not the eight. Four. You're wrong here. Listen. Without restructuring, with the old structure the eight champions were giving bars and upwards the four. And where did they get up? In a charge without any financial plan, no money, nothing. At the moment, a safe environment of funding has been created for all groups, so that they can have their expenses covered in the lowest category.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u94	Locked up the bucket? Locked up. So how are you gonna get into more teams and mock us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u95	Watch out. Bridget's locked, so the numbers are dropping.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u96	Therefore, unsustainable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u97	It'll be viable again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u98	It's inconsistent with what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u99	It is not sustainable today, Mr Papoutsis, to have our teams, which, when they were charged, were dismantled and then they needed many legislative interventions every time, such as Olympic Volos, so that they could climb the professional category without their weights. Frauds have entered because of the lack of proper functioning of the Committee on Professional Sport. And Olympiacos Volos has also benefited from this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u100	But Olympiacos got over this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u101	Legislative arrangements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u102	Will you tell us why you didn't legislate in September?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u103	We were expecting from the football federation. To legislate on structures, you expect from the football federation the suggestions on structures. There was a argument in football about where A2 should be subjected. If it should be autonomous, whether it should be subject to super League or whether it should be subject to Football League.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u104	And did the NCA decide now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u105	You don't know that? Don't you know about the mail? That's what's going on in public.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u106	Half an hour's debate on an amendment is not possible. Sit down, Mr. Vasiliadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u107	You should have legislated earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u108	Because you said that with what we're dealing with, there's going to be a problem, others with what's going on, Mrs. Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u109	You've made ten-storey building from a galley. That's who you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u110	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u111	Ms. Karamanlis, hold on, please. Hang in there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u112	For the substance of the amendment, you have said nothing. You're unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u113	Reconstruct the old regime. Remind it publicly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u114	Do you know how many it's about? You're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Red has the floor. I won't have a conversation here. By clarification, convict discussion and whatever goes down. Is that possible now? Half an hour's amendment you've heard of it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u116	Do you know how many it's about? You're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u117	It's all about big categories of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u118	On April 9th, the NDP sent the changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Vasiliade, I do not allow you to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u120	He didn't say when to legislate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u121	On April 9th, the NCA said to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u122	Have a seat. That's enough. Keep the spirit fan for the courtesy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u123	Observations of closed doors? You made it impossible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u124	He did it. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Kokalis is the candidate for the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u126	Come on, Mr. Tasoula. Our joke's cold. We've been colder than the air condition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u127	We laughed. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the central choice of the Government and the Ministry of Rural Development is to support cooperative schemes, healthy cooperative schemes. The solidarity levy for cooperative farmers has already been abolished following the Prime Minister's announcement. With the amendment being tabled, and with a general number of 2166 and a special 64, the aim is to provide incentives to farmers members of cooperatives. In particular, Article 29(3) of Law No.4384/2016, which stated that after the distribution, the clearance of the costs, the financial sums were distributed to farmers members of cooperatives. The tax on this distribution, however, was regarded as income from commercial activities and was taxed at 22%. Now it is amended and not characterised by the specific trade activity, but simply agricultural business. Under this arrangement, the farmer will have the tax deduction under Article 16 of the Tax Code, which starts from EUR 1900 without dependent members and reach EUR 2100 for three dependent members, thereby building the tax-free limit which will be up to EUR 9,200. The tax treatment of income from the same source is also achieved on an equal footing. I repeat, this amendment comes to give an extra incentive for those who are active members of cooperatives to remain, an additional incentive to make cooperatives even greater, provided, of course, that they are traded - as provided for in paragraph 3 - with the cooperative and are regarded as simply rural activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u128	Thank you. We finally start the list of speakers. The first speaker is Mr Socrates Vardakis of SYRIZA. You have seven minutes, Mr. Vardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day for Heraklion, Crete and the whole country. With this project, the concession contract for the construction and operation of a visionary and emblematic project, the new international airport in Kastelli, Heraklion Crete, takes effect. We cannot recognise that the need for its construction has already existed since the 1990s. Of course, there were serious actions at the time and then, especially from the then Deputy Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Manolis Army, and from other service actors, institutional factors that really tried to put this great project on the rails. Its implementation was, however, transferred from time to time, contributing to the maintenance and growth of the development deficit throughout Crete, a region which, despite the constraints of the existing airports, was the flagship of the country's tourism with millions of visitors arrivals. In 2018, “Nikos Kazantzakis”, with more than eight million passengers, was the second airport of the country in passenger traffic, behind “Eleftherios Venizelos”. Here, let me really congratulate the workers at the existing Heraklion airport "Nikos Kazantzakis", who, despite the limited capacity they are carrying, even today to meet the needs of the tourist season. In 2015, we found ourselves in front of many open fronts, loose ends, projects - interventions, as well as rules calling for launching and resolving. From the first moment to us it was clear that tomorrow Crete was closely associated with the completion of these projects, which remained incomplete, but also the promotion of the implementation of key development projects such as the BOAK, the airport, the energy interconnection of the island, the Messara road. These were projects which Crete has been waiting for decades, which will give a new impetus to sustainable development. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with you that the decision on the airport in Kastelli has been in 2003. However, only today, after 2015, sixteen years after 2015, it is the current government that through discussion and dialogue with all the institutions, with all the collectives, with the municipality, with the region, with the collectives that disagreed, with people whose property was exonerated, does this visionary work. All the proposals have been tabled and taken into account. The majority of the local society and regional unit of Heraklion and Crete was and is in favour of becoming the airport and so we went ahead. It is the current government that ensured the strong presence of the public in the contract. It is the current government that completed the tender. It is the current government that has for the first time secured the compensatory consideration that the State will receive from the exploitation of the project in order to reach 2%. This amount is not in any way incomprehensible. We are talking about revenues of many millions of euros, which will actually help the development of the whole region and not just. Today, with the ratification of the contract, the international airport in Kastelli, a visionary project, is now actually entering the implementation stage, as the projects are expected to start by the end of 2019. At the start of the project, over a thousand five hundred jobs are created during the construction period and multiple permanent jobs are created during the operation period. And during the period of development of new commercial infrastructure and uses, it will be the largest development project ever done in Crete with a highly developmental character. It is a project for tourism, development and local society. It is a development path that will include not only the work of the airport, but it is accompanied by the construction of a modern and secure network that is suitable and capable of serving the millions of passengers who will travel from the new airport on an annual basis. It is true that this type of investment substantially upgrades and alters the location of the island on the global map of air transport and tourist destinations. To repeat once again and with faith in what we are saying, that all these projects, public infrastructures do not belong to any minister, district governor, government or mayor, and we are judged by transparency and efficiency to implement these infrastructures in the service of this people. I know that the Minister responsible, Mr Spirtz, also shows absolute sensitivity to the issue of compensation in relation to expropriations, after all, foretold it a moment ago. I am sure that, where he can intervene, he will do so soon. In conclusion, Madam President, I cannot comment on the statement made by the Secretary of the New Democracy, Mr Aygeakis, who, after the first committee the day before yesterday, said in a genuine way that the airport would proceed to Kastelli by means of a seal of the New Democracy. Look, ladies and gentlemen, although I have said that I agree with the suggestion made by Mr Boukokouros, I would like to say this to you: although you have recently become addicted to lying and misinformation, put as many traps as you want. The Cretan people know that for 15 years your inactivity and inability was due for the whole of Crete to be the poor relative to infrastructure and development projects. What you have not done over the last 15 years, however, this government in four years is planning, implementing and delivering development projects and finally creating the prospects for development of this place. As for Nikos Kazantzakis airport, be sure that it will be exploited for the benefit of the social group alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vardakis. Mr Tasoulus from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, once again we see from the government side of SYRIZA an attempt to incorporate projects which by their very nature, by their very nature, are not projects which can be beaten by a government, and not by an extensive government service. We all need to understand - and here I include us who, however, do not make this attempt to make familiarity, we are voting for this bill, we are voting for this ratification, as you did not do in the sanctions of the great road projects of the past that the Samara government has brought in this House, after having saved them from a financing problem - that there are no major projects that are limited in time to the extent of one or two four years of government service. It is right that the New Democracy votes for this ratification for Heraklion's new international airport. It is also right to say that normally, if things were working with a sense of urgency and a sense of urgency, this convention should have come in 2016, go in 2017. It is therefore at least two years behind, and that should be pointed out. The Prime Minister, visiting Saturday another airport - not of course the size and arrivals of Heraklion airport, but another airport that is ambitious and is developing in recent years - the Vasileios Pyrros airport of Ioannina, said it was tired of opening projects, which had not been completed. But it also inaugurates works before they are completed. So he should have two reasons to get bored. However, his own effort has exactly something to do with entrepreneurizing the work of others. And if the airport, said, of the Ioanninas had been delayed earlier, since the first contractual completion time four years, as noted, SYRIZA is four and a half already ruled. Therefore, the first four years of delay added its own delay beyond the four-year period for Ioannina airport. So we do not have that indictment, and we think that public works can end up in a government term of four years, which is rare in the country too. The Secretary-General of Sport presented a serious amendment to the restructuring of the categories of professional football, which, in our opinion, starts, prematurely by creating injustices that are unacceptable and overthrown at how groups or groups were prepared for the period that comes. I am referring also to a completely unfounded, demagogic, superficial and naive, to allow me the term, a statement by the Prime Minister at the airport of Ioannina on Saturday, that because the reconstruction and completion of the airport of Ioannina is going well, this must serve as a comfort to the fans of the Ioannina PAS. By addressing PAS Yannina, with whom the Prime Minister does not have the slightest relationship, the Prime Minister said, "We fell into the Second National category, but it doesn't matter where we fell, the airport is in Yannina". He got a reasonably strict answer from PAS Yiannna, the Prime Minister, who pretends to be the fan of this group and did not ensure in his capacity as not to blame this group. He said the State Secretary Vasiliadis earlier said that the number of groups is not defined in the restructuring. Yes, it is not explicitly defined in the number of groups, but you know that indirectly the government regulated the number of groups, with the definition of television contracts and admitted that the financial restriction on television contracts obviously also affects the number of groups. And it is decided by the current football season that, when Gianna is saddened by the Prime Minister who fell, he has appealed to the Arbitration Court and before the Arbitration Court decides whether it is right to acknowledge the fact that we are restructuring without two years since it is announced and without the adjective system of control of arbitration has been installed in the courts, the VAR system, which will prevent the fall into categories due to apparent errors of arbitration, as is the case with Gianna. And because the Minister for Public Works is here, I would like to say by closing that every time Mr. Tsipras comes to Iannina - late 2014 in the election, in 2017 he was election and the day before he was election again in relation to the European elections - every time he dropped the number of projects he announced. The number of projects is compressed, because he disguises his former self. In his previous speech to my home country in Iannina, Mr Tsipras told us nothing about the projects that the Ioannina Prefecture needs, nothing about the connection between Konitsa and Ionian road, nothing about the connection between Ioannina and Cakavia. He said that the study is now ready and mature, while in 2017 he said the project was entering integration orbit. It's two different things. He said nothing about connecting Zagorio to the Egnatia road to the Arachthos node, he said nothing to us as soon as E65 buttons to Egnatia, he didn't say anything to us about the Perisk node, which connects the southeast side of the Ioannina basin with the axis of Egnatia, as the northwestern side is today united. He said that the Lake Ordinance, which I tell you, Mr Minister, is based on an environmental study of 2001, which makes it extremely vulnerable, in addition to other problems which in particular creates human property in an extensive area of Machika, which almost prohibits them from building up. So, first of all, we are voting for Heraklion's international airport, because it is a project that comes from our own presidency. But from our own side, we would still vote for it, even though you delayed it - and denounce that - two years. Big public works can't take care of them. But you can be a good public works dog, and when you take the spit from the previous government to cut the thread faster than the previous government would probably cut it off, and that's why you're smuggling it off. You're the one who's getting sour because you're cutting off the thread soak, always late. Thirdly, the amendment, the mini-legislative bill in professional sport, goes unequivocally against the groups, with a krone of injustice against Gianna PAS, where the Prime Minister made a low theatre, that he regrets PAS Yianna, while, if he was sorry and wanted to remove injustices, there would be no such amendment today. And fourthly, every time the Prime Minister comes to Epirus and Iannina and announces public works, he limits them and constantly instils foreign works. For one thing, the Second National charge has to do with SYRIZA. From now on, it is the accusation you will come to soon, after the European elections on 26 May and definitively after the autumn of 2019 elections, although if it is the case then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u132	Next speaker, Mr. Karras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can see that the debate is switching from a debate on Heraklion-Kastelios International Airport, in the best sense, as I have already heard, to matters of professional football. So, from the point of view, I have to take a stand. It is an issue that has concerned me, concerns me lately, and we must also place ourselves on this point. Professional football is the fact that it has been afflicted. No one can question that he's been afflicted. With legislative initiatives, however, like this amendment proposed by Mr Vassiliou, we fear that it will be even more troubled. Because there will be doubts as to which groups are entitled to participate in the new categories, which groups should be put down. I hear that it is before the Baroness Races amendment is even legislated in accordance with the new regulations, so that what they will be downgrading and what they will become in a higher category. Of course, partitioning the Second National does not precede a success of the arrangement. A year ago - we must also make a brief historical regression - Madam President, the ETUC debated it and proposed a restructuring. If I am not mistaken, it is her decision, as stated in the rapporteur's report. In other words, it is also accepted by the Government that a year ago, in August 2018, restructuring was discussed for the period 2019-2020. Since then, silence. I must remind you that restructuring requires the amendment of the previous law. Since August 2018, silenced by the Government. Suddenly, in mid-April there is a new decision by the football federation with about the same object and, as the Minister said, the restructuring framework is being updated again. What does the new decision add? What he had to reassign. Because since the football federation, the highest authority - which, as the government tells us, is self-government, so we cannot intervene on its main issues - put a year after its decision, namely, between 2019 and 2020 with a decision taken in August 2018, we are now coming and the government decides that they do not have any value, because I decided to legislate now. So did the government have to enable professional football to function properly, to protect historical groups, to say what? To say that the new restructuring will take effect, the new regulation from 2020-2021 and not immediately. Because it's a direct application right now. They automatically address the issues: sports clubs, A.O. will be converted into one month. I love, you say, affected by the amendment, to anonymous corporations? Is the Ministry of Culture aware of how long it takes for a conversion of an existing legal entity into another form, and indeed corporate, commercial law? Does he know how the GFCM works, how they are registered, how the statutes are adopted? It cannot be done in a month, unless it is decided that certain teams should be subjected not to racing, not to the race, to the championship, to the sporting sphere, but subjected to art on bureaucratic grounds. This is therefore a major issue with the amendment, which must be answered by the government as a whole. I have heard the reaction from all sides in relation to the amendment. I have not listened to any other parliamentary group, apart from the majority, to agree. Of course, the Minister, Mr Vassiliadis, has attempted to justify that there is opposition. But I'll be persistent. Even the automobile of the U.S.A. was invaded. As long as the NCA decides that only one year after its decision to restructure and return in April 2019 by a later decision, it had to apply from the aftermath of the championship, not from the direct. These were therefore not taken into account. There is no possibility of converting sports clubs, sports clubs to a public limited company. I will not say whether the funds required are small or large. Let's find them. I am not interested in the economic aspect at the moment, but I am interested in something else, that the Ministry of Culture is not really aware of the economic dimension of what it is doing, and I can prove it if you like. I have in front of me - it says the law of good legislature - that every government draft law should be accompanied by a summary report on the impact of regulation. Here's the regulation effect report. What's he telling us? It tells us: Need - economic consequences. Let us see whether it can function if these groups, as they will, become anonymous companies, are economically viable. The Minister's argument is not enough to resolve football. And what resolution, when some groups were deleted a month ago? Don't open this debate right now. Don't open it, I wouldn't want to. But it says: Need - consequences to the economy. The Ministry of Culture tells us that a report of the Ministry of Culture and Sport's Directorate-General for Economic Affairs is attached. Where is he? Is it attached to where? Is this an annex to the Minister's offices? In the report on the consequences of regulation, in which this is repeated four times, it is not attached. How, then, will the House legislate on the necessity or not of regulation? The Minister, Mr Vassiliadis, must bring it immediately to Parliament, if he has the right to vote on his amendment, otherwise everything is in the air. And what he said in his analysis that it is a matter of the NGO to define the teams, which will emerge in the restructuring in a higher category or be downgraded, is that I fell on the wings. And why those involved in football know that right now, for the last 15 days, there has been a bar of racing between those teams that should be turned into a higher class or downgraded. How did the barbecue start? No law? Without regulation? These things do not improve football - which has the pathology that we all know - and professional football. All he does is create loopholes and rulers. I have to tell you this. I wouldn't have had a special place on this issue beyond his theoretical way of legislating, but I'm being received daily complaints in West Athens, where a historic team, Aigaleo, fought for a whole year, invested in this period so that they could continue in the next category, i.e. entering the Third National. At this point in the way of division, they stay in the same category. This is a disincentive for both young people and sport. They are not taken into account either. I think that it should be immediately corrected and that an annual deadline for restructuring should be given - that would be reasonable for the issues to be dealt with and for the amendment to be withdrawn one year after the amendment to be withdrawn. Mean doesn't exist. After all, the House rejects, as it seems, collectively and overall for this regulation. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Gregos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. It is of course common practice that many projects are announced in the election campaigns, works that later stop, works with too many malicious work. Of course, no one has ever apologized for what happened about these works and if some of the well - known majestics have been brought to justice. As I said before, most of it is for election. Of course, the debate on the bill has escaped and we have waited for this in terms of Heraklion airport and focused on the Ministry of Sport's amendment. It is a bill even - and not a sanction - at a very compressed time, because it follows another very serious bill, that for the hundred and twenty instalments, which reveals the government's rush to save what may be just before the elections. It is a bill with many amendments to which I shall refer only briefly because of lack of time. The special rapporteur, Mrs Zaroulia, has mentioned in detail the reasons why we are voting against. With regard to the amendments, as I have said before, we are waiting for the arrival of the relevant minister and the others to explain. In particular, for the amendment on the restructuring of professional categories and others, we have first of all announcing that this procedure should come as a separate bill, with the hearing of bodies and all the others, of course, and certainly not at this time in question. There are too many changes in this amendment. We have changes concerning the share capital of groups, too many changes. A separate bill, if anyone sees it, is that which has several articles, and that is why the parliamentary representative has also called for them to be withdrawn. The Minister gave some explanation, but, as I said before, it's a separate bill. The Minister left, he couldn't have heard us. Of course, we've been waiting for some further explanations. Of course, we know that you are dealing with the groups as votes and not with the promotion of sport. Of course, the problems in Greek football have not been solved at all: violence, illegal betting and untrustworthiness. The measure of foreign arbitrators has been implemented, the VAR has been applied, which we have seen and is a good measure. As far as the rest of the problems are concerned, we also denounced them in another bill that came to Parliament a while ago. Of course, this specific amendment 2562/61 is irrelevant to the bill and has risen, as we have said, a storm of reactions. Of course, the comparison of Greek with European football is tragic. A phenomenon which is so disturbing and appallingly affecting us, since we have brought the talk about sport, is that with anti-national slogans sometimes heard on Greek courts. Here too, we will be demanding very heavy penalties. Inside all this, we saw a real paradox the other day, with thousands of policemen and few fans, which clearly shows that neither can you organise properly. And I assure you that by listening to the sports radios of Thessaloniki and I believe in Athens, you are also called by journalists and by fans useless and incompetent. That's what they call you. Indeed, I think the Minister preferred to go to some district in Athens, instead of attending the final of the Greek Cup. I come to the other amendments. 2218/66 concerning the extension of the validity of building permits and structures, the same amendment was tabled a year ago by the rapporteurs themselves on the same grounds. Here, let us say that in Greece of the continuing crisis, many buildings have remained in the middle, many properties have been lost and many people have been destroyed. And of course, as you know, most of the workers in these buildings are foreign. I come to Amendment No 2167/65 on the definition of the General Secretariat of Sports as a management and exploitation body of the Ano Liosia Olympic Centre. When we talk about Olympic properties, of course our mind goes to what the governments knew and covered, the so-called party. With regard to waste, but also to the management of Olympic properties, no one has so far been brought to justice. For us, athletic situations must be under the control of the state. Naturally many of them were literally destroyed by the illegal immigrants you brought. It is also a characteristic example of the Lesbos swimming pool, which I visited recently, but also almost all the facilities throughout the country. Amendment No 2164/63 is irrelevant and delayed, as is Amendment No 2166/64 on the regulation of matters of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. We shall vote on both of them accordingly. Amendment No 2160/30 is related to the extension of staff contracts in order to restore natural disasters to Eastern and Western Attica and Zakynthos. Of course we all know that you also bear huge responsibility for these tragedies. The Greek people and, above all, the people affected, demand that those responsible for justice be brought to justice and paid exemplarily. Because the administration, they predict. In Plomari, Lesbos, which I visited recently, nothing has happened since the earthquakes that hit the region, but now, as you all know, it is an election period and everyone has some hopes. Really, what about the scenes that, god guardians, we're going to need in the event of a big earthquake? Are there? Aren't there? Some have ended up in hot spots and illegal immigrants? Hold that. Generally for the bill and because you refer to Crete, I should like to inform you, because we have contacts with the associations of Cretans everywhere, that the associations and residents of Crete are telling us about the betrayal of our Macedonia and because the Cretans have given hard struggles in Macedonia, the message you will get from there and you will remember it for a long time. You won't succeed with elections and lies. It is well known that the old-fashioned actions that you have been implementing, such as these inaugurations we have heard a moment ago and all these benefits that no longer convince anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u136	Thank you. I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Mavrota. Parliamentary representatives will now be intervened, because we went on to five speakers from the list at the same time. Here, Mr Mavrotas, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing the bill for the ratification of a concession contract for the construction, financing, operation, maintenance and operation of the new International Airports Heraklion Crete and its road connections, i.e. for the new airport in Kastelli, as established. It is a development project that will give further impetus to the already rich tourist product of the island, but not only. It will generally bring Crete closer to the continent, to Europe, to the whole world. The study and construction of the airport and support road projects will be carried out through a public and private partnership. The public limited company "International Airport of Heraklion Crete" will build the airport with shareholders of the Greek State with 45.9%, the companies "TERNA" and "GMR AIRPORTS" with 54.1%. The concession and operation agreement has a duration of thirty-five years. 2% of the airport's revenues will be attributed to the Greek State, 1% of which will be attributed to the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas, for which I will be speaking further, that is, where the airport will be built, and 1% to enhance the development of the municipalities of Heraklion, as well as to public activities. The history of the new airport is as follows: In 2008 the partnership with the private sector was chosen for the design and construction of the new airport in Kastelis. In August 2009, the environmental conditions of the project were adopted, as well as the tender documents. Two years later, in 2011, the competition became barren. In May 2014, an international tender with a auction date in November 2014, which, however, was extended eleven times and was finally held in October 2016 with a single tender, the one we are currently dominating, almost three years later. The airport under the contract will be completed within sixty months. Its construction will cost about 480 million. The public contribution will be 180 million, 220 million of the two companies and about 125 million will be expected to be the revenue from the modernisation and development of airports at the existing airport, Nikos Kazantzakis. Mayor Minoa Pedadas, a municipality in which the new airport, Mr. Kalogerakis, sent us a very comprehensive memorandum, a real model of realistic approach and landed proposals, since we are talking about airports. It refers to seventeen points, including some development for the region, expropriations, reimbursements, staff recruitment issues and participation in the board of directors, eco-print infrastructure issues, cultural promotion issues of the region, settlement relocations, and even financing issues for residential soundproofing. The new conception of local self-government, i.e. 'not resisting any investment, but I claim to upgrade the lives of the people of the region', is a concept which we must of course take into account in such cases. But let me, on account of the subject and because we have already heard the Secretary of State for Sport, deal more with Amendment No 2162 on the restructuring of championships, an amendment of sports, in or out of the introductory wording. I will deal with the procedure, but also with the substance. So we have a contract ratification to come as an amendment to the entire restructuring plan for football categories, which should be the subject of discussion of a single bill based on its criticality. But it is not the first time that parliament and parliamentary procedures are considered decorative. Something that SYRIZA was complaining about when he was in opposition, now applies it, not being able to resist the convenience it offers to him governmentally, regardless of whether Parliament is smacking the institutions. The purpose justifies the means and hope comes, otherwise. One can tell me, of course, that this amendment is not so unrelated to the bill. Obviously, in the distant future, the teams that will go to Heraklion to deal with the OFH or the "Ergotel" will land at the new airport of Kastelio. That's the connection that he might have so that we don't consider it irrelevant. And I was really surprised to begin reading the explanatory statement with the reference to the self-government of football and the decision of the EBRD on restructuring, which was not taken now, but in August 2018, about nine months ago, when the press came together, even the government-friendly one, that this restructuring was following the Minister's wish. I speed up: “The Deputy Minister of Sports Giorgos Vasiliadis, who asked for twelve teams, did not do so in Athens, 9,84 on 7-7-2018. ‘The Deputy Minister of Sport made it clear to the representatives of the SCO and Lega that, if they insist on their decision on sixteen teams in the Super League in 2019-2020 and their reduction from 2020-2021 to fourteen, the economic agreement with the Government will no longer have effect’. These are the ones in the 'REAL FM' on 8-4-2019. "A according to information from the federation, he once again requested no restructuring, but Mr Vassiliou made it clear that without it the economic agreement with the ERT does not apply, "The Editorial Newspaper" on 8-4-2019. I don't see much self-interest after these interventions. Let us also come to the basic regulation on restructuring, reducing the number of groups, the figures which have been heard, the sixteen, the fourteen and see what benefits we expect from this regulation. Will it become the final cup of the 2019-2020 season in the presence of fans? Are we going to be claiming to see fan movements in the outside matches of their teams? Are cases of violence to be curtailed? Will the fan card and the online ticket apply, which we have just legislated? Are we going to have a cleaner championship? Are we going to have a better product? Is there going to be an improvement in the group's finances? And since we are talking about finances, I have seen that you are reducing the minimum required share capital of the OIP by 50% for the new Super League 1 and by 80% for the replacement of Football League. And while we do not overlook the fact that at the heart of the negotiation he made with the agencies, mainly the Ministry, there was a state sponsorship through the ERT. The question is whether now, when the sponsorship scheme was completed in seven of the AIFs, the year is able to provide some information and some financial results. So what did she do by transmitting Super League or ERT? Were the financial results positive? Because Mundial didn't do so well. Anyway, the comfort is that we'll have football championships even with ERT grant. I'm saying this because I'm afraid we won't have basketball championships with the recent tragedy events. And I wonder if that is why the Minister, who came to us, would have something to say to us, referred to the amendment and is not here with us. The truth is that you get depressed when you see from one picture emanating from the state-of-the-art Greeks in sport to become top-class in the world, see, for example, Giannis Antetokubo, Stefanos Chichipa or Katerina Stefanidis, who are leading worldwide these days, but those children who insist heroicly in our country, such as Petrounia, Korakaki and the other children, and we also have scenes of incidents - be careful - in a fight without viewers, while we are preparing the file on the World Cup of 2030 along with neighboring countries. If we are constantly retreating against hooliganism practices, if we do not apply the laws that we have adopted, if the natural and moral perpetrators of the episodes are not punished, then any restructured accusations and to do so will be at the same point. And we're getting to have episodes even in a fight without fans on the field. The next step, what's it gonna be? Games without teams on the field, playing on playstation on direct broadcasting and television rights, because that's what's probably most interested. Allow me here to raise another issue of the topical and urgent subjects of sport and perhaps the Minister could answer us. Has there been a letter from the Government or Prime Minister or the Minister of Sports to the ILO proposing that Mrs Panagopoulos be appointed as a member of the orphan's position in the International Olympic Committee? That is a question which has not been made very clear to me from the answer given by Mrs Panagopoulos in her letter. However, if there was such a letter, you should know that you burned whatever chance it might have, because in the ILO, when they attempt state interventions bring exactly the opposite results, because they consider the independence of the Olympic Movement to be affected. So there is a lot of work to be done at the Ministry of Sports, and I do not mean that we have to monitor the posts on the social media and public advisors from the Secretary-General of Sports, because we have seen this too. Your model seeks a strong intervention in sport. You love him, I'm not saying, but you hug him so much that you will finally drown him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u138	Mr Balommenakis has the floor for seven minutes. It will then speak again Parliamentary spokesman until extinction, although we have only one speaker left. Here you go, Mr. Balomannakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u139	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said in the debate on this ratification the previous days. The rapporteurs of the New Democracy and KINAL have attempted to present the real work of building the airport in Kastelli Pediadas as an achievement of their own governance. It is true that thoughts and all preparation at study level dates from far away 2003. In 2009, the competitive process began, but was interrupted to resume and complete over the days of the SYRIZA Government. In May 2017, the temporary contractor shall be designated as the temporary contractor. In September 2018, the final contractor and February of the following year, 2019, the contract shall be signed. Appropriately, it is the first time that there is so little distance between the different phases of the competitive process of a major project. This suggests a very strong political will to go ahead with the project. The result of the political will and the great effort that has been made is the convention that we are currently dominating. It's not my intention to parade. Such approaches pose great risks of vagueness and from what you have seen, neither did the government give this dimension as a capital dimension. Although it could have been, because it received a coma project and brought it to the fore, much improved. I am ready to accept that the economic crisis that hit the country since 2009, bringing it to the limits of bankruptcy, has made it very difficult to finance such a great project. The investment reluctance was also given that the prospects were completely uncertain. The economic difficulties and the uncertain landscape in the country's public affairs, until the country has taken a firm exit from the memorials, were nevertheless an obstacle to our own government. Although the project was decided and the first decisive actions were taken in the midst of the well-known difficulties, precisely because of the conviction that we would succeed, there was no slight doubt or delay. And in this sense I would like to say that this project symbolises our country's return to growth, its recovery of its ability to plan optimism and confidence in progress and prosperity. It is of additional importance that this work in Crete, as Crete for a very long time has been arched fish. It is not a secret that the infrastructures on the island are delaying modernisation over the other regions in the rest of Greece. The time taken to reach the present result was the few and the government did exactly what it did to the other major projects that it had also launched on the island. For example, I mention the creation of a modern and international highway standards across the north of Crete and the inter-energy interconnection of Crete, which is expected to have multiple benefits for both the economy and the population of Crete, things that the Prime Minister had committed to at the development conference. In the past, before 2015, as Mr Kegeroglou said in his position in committee, there was a not so solid procedure and he gave up part of the delay. On the contrary, we have implemented decisively incomprehensible and speedy procedures, with the result that within five months the contractor will be finalised and the contract signed. Success is credited to the Ministry's staff and, personally, to the Minister, yes, to this minister of the mustards, as those who left many years behind have called him important works to put them in. Of course, the positive effects will be great on the island and on the whole of Crete. As has already been said, the surrounding municipalities benefit by increasing the percentage of the annual turnover from 0.5% to 2%. I would like to say that the central administration's ability to distribute 1% of this amount in a way harmonised with the region's spatial and environmental needs is a good tool that, in other words, will push to the planning that several operators have spoken about. The debate also took place on the issue of environmental consequences, which always calls for attention and consideration of all - without exception - of the parameters, but without austerity and simplifications. Over the years before, public reflection and many doubts about the feasibility and efficiency of the new airport have been raised several times. We are all aware of how much the debate on the far-reaching corridor has taken place, and that, in the end, there can be no scientific reliable assurance of its safety. I think it was right that the burden currently borne by the city of Heraklion from the existing airport, which operates under suffocating conditions and is burdening the daily life not only of Nea Alikarnassos, but also of the city complex as a whole. I had noted to say that the increase in return for the owners whose large part of the property is expropriated. I think the Minister covered me with the commitment he just made. I just want to say that the quantitative loss, as this region is involved with a small percentage of the total agricultural production of the island - there is no relevant study of notables - any loss can be balanced - and this is already the case to a significant extent - with improvements, standardisation, large-scale export penetration that is persistently promoted by the productive operators of the island with significant results. I think it is good that the Cretan Products Promotion and Promotion Centre will be set up to stimulate the efforts to establish brand name of the local economy for the dissemination of the value of many of the separate foods produced in Crete. Of course, there is a lot left. Minister, I would like to point out - I think it is the first time that this is a point that has only been made to me this morning by important actors in the city of Rethymno - that now, as the milestone of the withdrawal of the airport from Rethymno makes the speed of access to the airport a priority, the improvement of the existing road from Souda to Akhiri Chania - that is, the airport - must be put to immediate priority because it cannot really be charged to the Rethymno Law for at least half an hour, without providing it with the corresponding ease of access to the airport of Chania. You know the subject. There are thoughts. In any case, I am optimistic that this will also be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and two schoolchildren and two teachers from the 4th Lamia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I shall now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Eliopoulos. Mr. Eliopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Strange things have happened in Greek sport in recent years as well as too many injustices. We see a final one taking place three years ago in the city of Volos and there being so bad episodes that we had not seen for too many years. The state's responsibility again! This year we have a final one that is being held behind closed doors, a global, literally, originality for a state that wants to be called'serious' - and even in Uganda they are not doing so, to become finals behind closed doors - and yet again there are episodes within and outside the field. We have seen in Greek struggles for foreign referees, because Greeks were suspected to set up games. Again things are not happening in a civilized country. And we come to an amendment today, which comes a year after the so-called agreement on the restructuring of football last year, which was made late again. This agreement was supposed to take place in August, we legislate it in May, while budgets, bajettes, transcriptions and all that a team needs to work for the new season since June. You probably don't know how the championships work, you don't know how the teams work. You haven't been involved in all these years in sport, so you know how those clubs work what they want to have a serious career in the championship. So, historical groups are affected - I will tell them why it is not a problem - such as Olympiacos Volos, from the homonymous city, as are other groups from various cities in Greece. I would like to say something here, in the Greek Parliament, to hear the injustice: Olympiacos Volos plays the third class this year, in the third class, in the Third National, and wins his rise worthy in the Second National. And you come here today, after it is finished - I stress this - the championship - even for the eyes of the world did not, you did not bring the amendment a little earlier - to set a new charge that will send Olympiacos Volos to replay the time - champion III class - to the third class of our country. These things don't really happen anywhere else. You've taken our eyes off us with what you legislate and how you bring them. All this is just absurd. Whoever you say - without dealing with sport, without dealing with football - that the categories of championships will be set after the championships have been finished and a category will be added, he will say to you, "Okay, it just can't be, it can't be." So you have no reason to think about it. I do not know what this new category serves, and as it comes today to be voted on. Obviously, we will find out in the future, because everything serves something. However, we have come to the political news, in a time of time that has hit'red' in the last few days with some theatrical debates that have taken place in the House. And I call them "theatrical" because - and our Chief said so - we did not get any answers. They are being pushed right and left-wing accusations by the syriars to the neo-democratics and, on the contrary, without giving the necessary answers. We have also set a Silver Alert for SYRIZA candidates, who all over Greece are hiding from everywhere. They dare to communicate these terrible successes of the SYRIZA government! They only hide and come out of the Prime Minister, your "great person" - within thousands of introductorys - to propaganda and fall from gave to gave across Greece. Of course, as we have said, to circulate throughout Greece you need dozens of MATs. These are the measures you have brought. These are the agreements like that of the Prespecies, which you have voted on, and people don't want to see you in their eyes. Of course, you use various tricks, which are sometimes successful, sometimes failed, such as what Tsipras said, that your ideology is closer to that of Christianity. If possible, you atheists who do not make your cross and who are now lately falling into the churches - all of SYRIZA - seem to be the vow made by political oath - say that you are the best Christians. You've reached that level of despair, saying that you're the best Christians. Let me see what else we will hear by 26 May and how much more until the elections which are likely to take place in October, what else they will be. And when I say 'what else you', I mean: besides Christians, you became followers of Metaxas! Of course, you immediately removed the video, why did you listen - he put you two feet on a shoe, who? The New Democracy. The New Democracy, which does everything in its power to send all these people who believe in Metaxas, who believe he was a worthy leader in the Golden Dawn. And the Syrians and the neo-democrats are the best sponsors of the Golden Dawn with all that you do. If possible, even Metaxas will mind you. Metaxas, who said "OTI", is the Metaxas who created a nation state that built a state that actually brought revolution back to the political life of the country with what he has implemented and, of course, you have never recognized them. Right and left you consider him a dictator, and that's what you call him. And so you called him in the New Democracy announcement, because you have the courage you right to defend people who have benefited our country. Sit down and shake your finger and every communist hits you. Those who have brought and done the disgraceful things in our homeland sit down and shake your finger. And they do well for you, of course. They're very good for you. SYRIZA was arrested the other day - and was released, of course, logical - to fly molotov, where? In his own party. That's not happening! It's against our logic again. Voutsi's son is now being arrested for drinking a drink in Ghazi, leave it to us - in those people who threw the rain from molotov, where? At SYRIZA's office. Things you're saying come out of logic. Voutsi's son can't fly molotov to SYRIZA's offices. That's what's happening. Surely we are not, perhaps man did drink his drink, we say where he was arrested and why he was arrested. Justice will judge when the time comes. We don't judge anyone like you do. You've made the Golden Dawn a criminal organization before the court decides, we say the facts, as they have done in the past few days. Other events are the ones that took place in Thessaloniki from a Pakistani attack at a meat shop. Listen to me, Pakistanis attacking a butcher shop! In a Greek who told them why they had illegal tobacco products. They set him up later and beat him to death. This is happening in a country - I repeat - that wants to be called Western, which wants to be called civilized and run by poachers. Those who have entered our country illegally have begun to take their tops, because of course they have absolute immunity. What if you're trying to enforce law and order? Let's go see. Go see the hindrance outside the OSCE, go and see the pact. Have you seen pictures? Tens of meters in length reaches the pact of these people, who have illegally entered our country and have been smuggled to survive in our country, selling such products. These people, of course, enjoy immunity, not only from SYRIZA but also from New Democracy. It's always like that. But if a brown person or a grandmother of ninety years old sells the money she has made in her home, she is arrested and pays a fine of 2500 euros. Tell me if one of these colored ones selling all of these messenger products has paid 1 euro fine. Clearly he hasn't paid. Tell me if one of them has paid 1 euro tax. Clearly he hasn't paid. Let me know if these people have priority in hospitals. Clearly they have against the Greeks, because they go in with the chimpanzee and want to lead everywhere. Let me know if they're in education. Clearly they do, because they declare zero income and their children take - not that they go - the positions of the Greeks. All this is happening in our country in 2019 and it's not going to change anything. That is why we are saying that, against the party of political parties, there is the Golden Dawn. And now that I'm saying suffocation, the only instrument we have to talk about is here in the Greek Parliament. You've excluded us from the channels, you've excluded us from the social media. You have excluded us from your media, newspapers, site etc. There's no reference to the Golden Dawn, except when you want to sludge us. Zero - indeed zero - is the time you give us anywhere. Nevertheless, I was reading an article today and it came to my mind that there is a party in the Greek Parliament claiming the vote both at national and at European elections, the JRC, which is listening to what it says in its programme. They haven't downloaded it. If you enter the JRC website you will read that the JRC is guided by the revolutionary worldview of Marxism - Leninism. The strategic objective of the JRC is to conquer the revolutionary labour power, the dictatorship of the proletariat, etc. and continue with these nice KICs. He has never made a statement that he respects the Constitution. In his programme he says to overthrow a culture and you democrats are supposed to put it on the constitutional arch. And somewhere else he writes again in his programme that in the event of an imperialist war between Greece, either in a defensive or aggressive war, the Party - with their capital scare - must lead the selfish organization of the labor struggle, in all forms, to lead to a total defeat of the bourgeoisie - domestic and foreign - as an invader. In other words, while - beating wood - the Greek soldiers will fight for the forehead, there will be a fifth pole in our homeland and this is the KKE. And you didn't report it, because it's doing you whatever the CCP wants in here. You've never denounced it. And he will implement it within his program if he is ever given the opportunity. It will never be given to him, it is true that he will never be given a chance and fortunately, but look at a party that is considered a democratic and within a constitutional arch that says about the destruction of the culture. That if war is declared, it will not be with the country, it will want to overthrow the bourgeoisie. In other words, we will also have a fifth convoy in our country to fight the Greeks. So, against all of them, against the national traitors of SYRIZA, to the ethnicly-negotiated and New Democracy, against those who want to overthrow the culture, against all those who have infected our country all these years with hatred, with their corruption, there is a movement and this movement in a few days' time is claiming your vote both in European elections and in municipal elections and in regional elections. We'll be all over Greece. Make the move for yourself and for your homeland and for your children. Support the Golden Dawn, the only Greek nationalist patriotic party in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u142	Minister, at this stage, can you say what amendments you accepted that Parliamentary representatives too should know?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u143	Sure. All ministerial amendments are accepted. If you want, I can report the deposit numbers. These are the amendments with the following numbers: 2160, 2162, 2164, 2166 and 2167. The amendments are accepted by the Parliamentary amendments. 2168, 2170 and 2171.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u144	Mrs. Karakosta has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u145	Have a good evening, too. I think that in today's bill we are discussing and in which I understand the majority of people agree, despite any individual differences, it is useful to recall that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, during our government, has completed a series of key roads, which it has found incomplete or completed by the previous governments. This is known to all Greeks who started to go to their jobs, to their village, to all regions of Greece and reflected the stopped works. Truthfully, the images are here. I am referring specifically to the Elefsina - Corinth - Patras motorway, the so-called Olympia road, which is one of the most important projects of strategic importance for the development of the Peloponnese. It was received by the government of SYRIZA with fictitious timetables, unscrupulous planning and chaotic construction conditions. After many months of negotiations, European claims have been braked and timelines have been provided with final dates of delivery of this work and with criminal clauses if deadlines are exceeded. The renegotiation that took place achieved a benefit of 172 million. In fact, 171.834.053 euros. For Greek taxpayers these amounts. Olympia Street was inaugurated by the Prime Minister on 12 April 2017. I must also remind you that on 19 March 2019 - that is to say this year - Olympia Street was awarded in the United States by the American Civil Engineering Association as one of the top five projects worldwide, involving all the projects of study, construction and political mechanism. Then we have the N65, a highway waiting - and waiting - for Central Greece to get out of the road isolation. Its central section started operating on December 22, 2017, giving eighty kilometers of the Xyniada - Trikala section. Work on the southern part of the E65 motorway from Lamia to Xyniada started in early 2019. The goal is that of the section of Lamia - Xyniada to "wash" with the Section Xyniada - Trikala and operate before the three years that are the official timetable of the project. To complete, of course, the N65 remains the northern Trikala - Entrepreneuria Street. The Commission's approval procedures are ongoing and aim is until the end of the summer the northern part of the E65 is to be approved, to receive funding and to start projects. The Ionia Street has been fully operational since August 2017 and was inaugurated by the Prime Minister on 5 September 2017. And in this work, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport was faced with unfavourable terms of contracts concluded by previous governments, but again after tough negotiations a binding timetable was reached for the completion of the project and a benefit to taxpayers and the public 230,240,276 euros this time. The Ionian Road crosses two regions and five counties, Aitolokarnania, Arta, Preveza, Ioannina and Achaia. It connects western Greece and Epirus with the ports of Patras, Astakou and Igoumenitsa. It improves accessibility in areas with high archaeological, tourist and commercial interest and achieves safer, faster and more economical movements. On 3 May the Prime Minister moved to Crete and inaugurated the Hersonissos - Gouves road section of the northern road axis of Crete, what we call BOAK, which is a vision of decades. Also, the Kastelli - Kissamos, Kissamos - Hersonissos and Hersonissos - Naples have been auctioned and the works are in progress, while the rest of the Naples as Agios Nikolaos has begun the competitive process. The construction of BOAK is an important parameter for the operation of the new international airport of Heraklion Crete, for which we are voting today and which will be built in Kastelli of the Municipality of Minos Pediados, including the road network inside and outside the airport. This project will be completed in sixty months from the start of the concession. It has been noted in the contract that the above deadline also entails the imposition of criminal clauses. In his tour to Crete, the Prime Minister also inspected the performance of the work of the Heraklion - Messaras motorway, an important project for the inhabitants of Crete, which also waited 15 years for it to be implemented and which is moving towards its completion. Therefore, the opposition to the delays of our own government must understand that the implementation of a left-wing, effective and hopeful policy is the best response to those who consider SYRIZA as an occasional occupant of executive power and those who, of course, are political aristocracy that possesses this power. They forget, however, that we are a democratically elected government, which has undertaken to clean up the landscape of the destruction left by this elite and move on. In the sense of planning, planning, the right negotiations, the time limits, the corresponding clauses to contractors, we receive and we will receive the projects that this country so needs in order to operate at all levels of its development. In this context of planning we are voting today on this airport of Crete. I will not deal specifically with this convention because my previous colleagues have done so. After all, the opposition had nothing more to say than that we are slowing down and that is what you conclude from what I have just said. I would, of course, like to support two amendments which I endorse. One really solves bureaucratic issues, without going beyond the respective bodies, such as Archaeology, for the aqueducts. The other amendment is an amendment to law on extensions of building permits. I would like to thank the Minister, who has just accepted them, Mr Minister, for the rest of the work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u146	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Kefaloyannis has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today in this House about a bill and we are about ten days before the critical European elections on 26 May. We believe that in the polls of that day the Greek people will deplore the government and at the same time reward the New Democracy. In fact, since the Prime Minister a few days ago, during the debate on the vote of confidence, had given those polls a second vote of confidence, as he said, we believe that if he was defeated that day, he has no room but to go to Zappeion, to resign and to lead the country to elections in the next four weeks. Of course, wickedly thinking about the Government representative today has taken a step back, saying that ultimately the call of 26 May in the European elections is not a vote of confidence, that it is the first half and the national elections will be the second half. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that if the government - namely SYRIZA - is defeated in the European elections by one vote, it will have been condemned to the conscience of the Greek people and by the vote, so there is no room but to direct elections. But you will also allow me a reference, ladies and gentlemen, to the amendment to reduce duty, which we have tabled as a New Democracy a few days ago. We believe that if the Prime Minister - in particular the SYRIZA Government - does not accept this amendment, then unfortunately it will have proved itself as a political hypocrite, and that means, of course, that the reduction of the tax to EUR 5,600, which the SYRIZA government has adopted, which we have legislated, if this amendment is not adopted, then we as a next government are committed to this cut. Once again we call on the Government to vote for the New Democracy amendment and let us unite all those who agree that duty should not be reduced to our European partners, in fact, in order to achieve a result which will be in the interests of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. If Mr Tsipras and the SYRIZA Government do not do so, it will prove once again a hypocrite. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen in the last few days not only in the centre of the city but also in other parts of our country and, unfortunately, it has now become a common property that the SYRIZA Government and Mr Tsipras personally do not care about these issues for the reasons he knows. Of course, as I said before, this problem does not only concern Exarchia or the wider centre of Athens. It also concerns the poor districts of West Attica, Western Thessaloniki and many of the mountainous areas of our country. I repeat: we, as next government, commit that all policemen will obtain a bulletproof vest within six months of taking over our government, within one year we will proceed with the procedures for supplying about a thousand patrols, revert the DIAG to the levels that SYRIZA was prior to taking over and reintroducing the DELTA Group, which was abolished by the SYRIZA Government as one of the first measures it has taken. Of course, along with the recruitments for the social state, namely health and education, we are committed to moving directly to the recruitment of a thousand five hundred policemen, who will be made available to the DIAH and DELTA teams in order to improve the police force in the cities. Now, of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure that SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras have personally tried to convince us that they want to shift the dialogue in the field of ideas and programmes and not in that of people and actions, because I think we have all understood from yesterday why they are trying to do so. Unfortunately, the government and the Prime Minister are trying to find something every day in order to distort and falsify the positions of the New Democracy in the face of European elections and in a gross way. So we come to a thought that instead of comparing ideas, thoughts and possible arguments, we unfortunately see that there are personal attacks with an effort of take news from the point of view of Maximos. We have heard in the last few days that when Kyriakos Mitsotakis takes over the country's Prime Minister he will abolish the Easter gift, that he does not want the thirteenth pension, and what is spread since Maximos yesterday is that he will impose seven days' work and abolish the eighth! It is clear that this is a pitiful attempt in terms of Maximus to move fast news in relation to what the President of New Democracy has said. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not surprise us at all, because at the time when this government cuts the twelfth pension, since we proceed with the reduction of duty, they are once again baptizing the third pension for an exceptional allowance. I would remind you that, in December 2018 and December 2017 again, this exceptional allowance was baptized as a thirteenth pension. This is the third time that a thirteenth pension is baptized. I think the Greek people have now realised that this is a very big mockery from the point of view of SYRIZA. It does not give us any impression, because it is this government which has cut off by the ECHR and, of course, it is a government in which flexible forms of work have become dominant. We must not forget that at the moment, unfortunately, one in three Greeks is paid EUR 332, in fact even lower than the unemployment benefit. However, this time, ladies and gentlemen, the mud mechanism of the government and Mr Tsipras, I think, has proceeded to an unprecedented blunder, as the operational contract of work to which Mr Mitsotakis referred and which provides for the seven-day operation of each worker, is the company 'PASTRATO'. It is a contract which has the signature of Mrs Ahtsoglou and we must not forget that. What actually happens is that the employees in this company are finally working thirty-seven-and-a-half hours instead of forty hours, taking an additional eighteen days of leave, and that is without a reduction in their income. Of course, rather than discussing today how this working model could apply in other cases too, since we see that not only does it lead to a reduction in wages, but also to an increase in both numbers and days of leave and an increase in employment, rather than making it easier to save more full-time jobs, unfortunately once again we are engaged in a desperate attempt on the part of SYRIZA, which unfortunately does not hesitate to denounce what they themselves have signed and implemented. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this attempt by SYRIZA is not going to hurt the New Democracy, because all you are actually doing is to destroy all healthy cells from the future of this place. Indeed, the existing example mentioned by the President of the New Democracy cannot do so if the former regime comes back, which actually led to unemployment too many of the workers. Today I think it is progressive to give workers and businesses the opportunity to negotiate their future, to codecision it and, of course, to approve it by the relevant Ministry of Labour, as was the case in the case I mentioned to you. All of this is part of a more general plan from the point of view of European elections, because they have seen their failure - for example - with Scandalology. I would remind you of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, which, according to Mr Papagelopoulos, was the biggest scandal in postmopulation. He ended up in a very big fiasco on the basis of the decisions of the judiciary. It seems that the government's impulse has failed and the Greek people, all Greeks and Greek women, understood that what is given back, is the tenth - a fraction - compared to what the present government took to them by means of the austerity measures imposed by the unjust third memorandum. Now we are actually seeing an effort from the government's political agenda, since all the previous ones have failed. On the subject of the airport contract, it is good that we all understand in this Chamber the need to create a new airport in Heraklion, in order to meet the high tourist requirements that Crete has. Of course, if we take into account a number of other things, such as the northern road, the use of the port of Heraklion, even the creation of large tourist investments and the prospects for the implementation of waste treatment plants, we believe that Crete can also attract an investment destination of EUR 7 billion and actually become a strong development model. Of course, the main condition for this to happen is that large investment on the island should not be sprinkled once again. I will make a very brief reference to the reservations expressed about this project and they are not new. There were some voices talking about an airport that might not ultimately benefit Crete. Some tourist agents talked about an expensive airport, not only because of the increased fees but also because of the distance and the cost of flights, which passengers and Cretan will ultimately pay. There were some other voices that say that there would be an environmental burden in the area, and indeed as an alternative proposal they said that with one quarter of the cost, which they calculate, we could build the highway - as was heard here - at the 'Nikos KAZADZAKIS' airport and upgrade the existing airport, so that we can accept the tourists we are counting on for Kastelli. What I want to point out today is that when it builds such an infrastructure one should look very forward. We know very well what the situation at Heraklion airport is today. Despite any efforts to upgrade, the "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS" is not the airport that is currently able to serve Crete and Heraklion as a central gateway to the island. The same considerations - I would remind you - once again had been expressed when they discussed the issue of the new airport in Athens in this Chamber. There were even voices that said that the airport of Greek should not leave and it is fine to upgrade that as well. The reality is, however, that old infrastructure, like these, unfortunately, cannot respond to modern needs when we talk about decades. And Crete is absolutely dependent on its airports as a gateway to the vast majority of visitors coming to our island. A state-of-the-art airport, such as the one designed in Kastelli, is therefore, in the long term, absolutely necessary for Crete. Despite any reservations which exist in mind, we can only accept that the alternatives that are chosen are satisfactory. Of course, Mr President-in-Office, you are not doing well in the timetables. As far as the airport in Kastelli is concerned, I am tabling what you said, will start in 2017 and will be implemented in the next five years, as was said during the Prime Minister's visit on 20-12-2016 on the island. Unfortunately, something like that also applies to the BOAK. I also present a document where, at a corresponding visit by the Prime Minister in June 2016, he said that projects to the BOAK start in 2018 and will be ready in 2023. So, as far as the timetables are concerned, unfortunately you did not escape the rule of previous governments and there was a delay, which I imagine you will explain in your speech. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Madam President, I conclude with the New Democracy's amendments and positions on them. As regards the general number 2160 and special 60 of the Ministry of Infrastructure, we consider the extension of sixteen months excessive and completely arbitrary. If the extension were less, like the six months, we would be positive. However, because it is necessary, we will vote 'PARA' on this amendment. With regard to Amendment No 2164 and specific number 63, which abolishes the 30% reduction of the remuneration paid by the second position, we consider that this is a clear service to specific judicial officers holding a permanent IPA, which unfortunately is so 'photographic' and has retrospective power, which seems to have a specific service to some of the judicial officials. That is why we will be negative. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 2162 and a special 61, brought by Mr Vassilidis, as our rapporteur, Mr Bukokouros, and Mrs Karamanlis, is concerned, we are negative. With regard to Amendment No 2166 and special 64, we will be positive, although, Minister, we consider that there are some discrimination as regards legal persons who are members of cooperatives. Of course, while it is, in theory, a tax relief for natural persons, unfortunately, it has nothing to do with this, because you know very well that, instead of the agricultural cooperatives dispensing trade surpluses, they place them for the liquidation of their members. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 2167 and a special 65, we will be positive. As far as Parliament's amendments are concerned, in Amendment No 2168 and in Amendment No 66 we are voting in favour. We had also voted in the respective bill. Of course, it is particularly interesting to see that, as in other amendments, which I mentioned, you are amending your own laws and that, unfortunately, shows a practice of poor legislation on the part of SYRIZA. Within a year and a half you come yourself, either through an amendment of a parliamentary or ministerial, and you correct your own laws. So, when you were legislating at that time, you were wrong to legislate or to come back and for some reason you are serving some other interests of your own, which, unfortunately, at this time, seems to be incapable of being fully understood. In Amendment No 2170 and in Amendment No 68, we are also voting 'OHIM'. Finally, in Amendment No 2171 and in Amendment No 69 again we are voting 'NO.' It is a law once again that was passed in 2016, which you are coming to amend today. In any case it will have our negative vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u148	Thank you. Mr Maniotis, Parliamentary spokesman for Democratic Independence, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur, Vassilis Kegeroglou, Member of the Heraklion Parliamentary Group and Secretary of the Democratic Independence Group, in a very clear and effective way, has established why we will vote in favour of this convention. It is a contract which concerns a project at the new Kastelli airport, which will help decisively improve and develop tourism. I personally know firsthand that Vassilis Kegeroglu was next to the project from the very beginning. Of course, we would remind you once again that, as is the case with all major projects, these projects never begin in a government's term of office and do not end in the same government's term of office. This work, after all, started in 2011 with the great competition that was opened at the time, on which the competition, the contract of which we now come to ratify, was based. I note, however, in particular, the observations made by Vassilis Kegeroglou concerning the measures to be taken to avoid a repetition of the tragic development that the Greek airport has in Syriza, while at the same time ensuring that, with the special landfill that needs to be developed, we prevent possible negative developments in both regions, and at Heraklion airport and Kastelli, and, of course, that the precursors - and I am referring to both the expropriations which must finally be completed and the other precursors. Now, taking advantage of the opportunity afforded by the Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary representative will be able to refer to issues of the wider political context, I will be allowed to tell you what I am not going to talk about, but to tell you where and where to focus the rest of my position. I will not talk about the around 7,500 euros that the current government is stealing from the low pensioners due to the reduction to the disappearance of the CSCE over the four and a half years of governance of SYRIZA. He is now trying to replace these 7,500 thousand of EKRF with the EUR 500, the election allowance it gives pensioners who have up to EUR 7,000 annual income. I will not talk about the EUR 55 billion extra due to public authorities, taxes and insurance funds that were born, created and accumulated in SYRIZA. I will not talk about the EUR 900 million that SYRIZA has accumulated in PPC to the largest company in the Balkans nor of course about reducing its stock exchange value from EUR 2.5 billion in 2014 to just EUR 300 million today. As I am also not going to talk about the tragic developments and the inconceivable manipulations of the current government, both in the electricity interconnection of Crete and the mainland, especially Attica, I am talking about the great interconnection - and the lack of any initiative for hydrocarbon research south of Crete, which will upgrade the island geostrategically. But before I go to the topics on which I wish to address myself, I can only describe it as graphic, Mr Tsipras, who said yesterday that through his ideology it is very close to Christianity. After the candles in the epitaphs and in the resurrections, various Syrians from Greece have begun to crucify after Mr. Tsipras' statement. Ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago the President of PASOK and the Change Movement, the Phofi Genemas, along with members of the Movement, visited the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, ten months after the disaster in Matti, the hundreds of thousands of burnt people, in order to see Mrs Gennimata firsthand, where the country's preparation is, since the new anti-nuclear period has already begun. In her statements she said what we were all afraid of is happening. All announcements by the Prime Minister are a letter of empty content. Unfortunately, nothing has happened. All that has been done is to make public a bill on the possible future amendment of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, which is obviously not going to be prevented this summer or much more by the current governance of SYRIZA. The current government, however, as far as we can, even now, have not made any use of the European funds. He has not taken advantage of the Community initiative for the Civil Protection Mechanism, the rescEU mechanism, where it was a significant contribution from the PASOK and the Change Movement through the MEP Nikos Androullakis, who was the Euro-Socialist rapporteur. At the end of the day, we will once again be able to rely on the self-esteem and over-emphasis paid by firemen and the various other competent bodies. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard, with the surprise of the SYRIZA rapporteur in today's convention, asking for an amendment to the Spata airport. I would remind you that this contract for the airport of Spata, Mr. Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, you brought it here. We voted against it because it is a scandal contract. Now I see that your rapporteur is asking you to amend a contract which - a few months ago, a few months ago - bring in so that there is a change in the fees. I am referring to the Spata airport scandal, because we have not yet received an answer for the EUR 600 million that you intended to offer the private shareholders of the airport, and thankfully the European Committee on Competition has stopped you. You were, Minister, one of the five ministers of the Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investments, which you signed to collect the Greek State 480 million euros. Of course the answer came from the European Competition Committee, which told you that at least you should collect 1 100,000 000 000. Weakly, the private shareholder and you accepted the value of the 20-year concession by 600 million. What is the political response to this scandal that has been committed? It is simply not complete because the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, did not allow you to do so, according to statements by the Prime Minister, 'Belgium technocrats'. I wish those technocrats were protecting us from politicians like Mr. Tsipras. But, Mr Minister, because it is a matter of your competence and I cannot stand it, Madam President - I will comment on the fact that in a contract for the airport of Castelli, a bill on the football championship in the form of an amendment has been tabled, and we accept it as if nothing was going on, without debate, no consultation, in essence without any knowledge of the directly concerned. But what matters and is related to the Minister present, is what has recently come to my knowledge of the other scandal in Triasios. I shall submit three classified, confidential documents, both of which I have already requested answers from the honourable Minister and have not received a reply to questions which I have tabled. I hope to receive today. The first date of December 27, 2018, Emergency - Confidential. OSE, signature by CEO Panagiotis Theocharis, Minister of State, Prime Minister Tsipras, and five - six other ministers. What does the CEO of OSE say four and a half months ago? It says that for Thriassio, the contract signed by TRAINOSE with GAIAOSE is illegal and removes property and rights from OSE the particular private contract, and even notes ‘beyond the nullity, provided that you have caused unfair competition and proceeded to a direct breach of the provisions on public procurement and the competition rules’ and closes in one of the last paragraphs: ‘It causes damage to public property, it is essentially limited and the activities of OSE are hampered’, etc. The SYRIZA-appointed CEO of the OSE shall sign. The next day, TRAINOSE's document was also signed by the CEO of TRAINOSE, Professor Philip Tsalidis, in response to OSE's previous document to the same recipients, Tsipras, Spirtzi and other ministers, points out that: What OSE said yesterday is dangerous and the privatisation of TRAINOSE is at risk and, indeed, the entire procedure for deleting OSE debts is at risk. These two documents, ladies and gentlemen, have been submitted for several weeks to the Minister and I expect an answer to the questions put by people appointed by SYRIZA. I haven't got any answers. I hope to take her today. A further document from the European Committee on Competition has recently come to my attention, again, on the triumph of the Triumph. It's this document. It contains thirty-four questions to the Greek Government on how it proceeded to this convention. Between the rest of you I'm reading what he says and I'm going to testify. You proceeded to an open international competition and the competition was only in Greek. Why not in another foreign language? Does that not mean limiting transparency and the internationality of the contest? It also says: Go ahead and rent infrastructure to people who will make Logistics - a logistics chain - but at the same time you gave them the right to rent them, i.e. to do real estate, which was not evident from the contest. He also asks: Why did the contract you signed for sixty years? It continues with the document, with the noble and diplomatic language of Brussels, saying: This duration seems to be relatively long for such agreements. Another question he raises. You proceeded to a competition with an estimate of the value of the land in 2006 not of 2016. And the competition started in 2015 and ended in 2018-2019. How do we know that these values are true? Minister, have you responded to this document from the Competition Committee? I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras from Lefkada told us that he was tired. He's the tired second Prime Minister, because there's the tired first Prime Minister we know who he is. The tired second Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, is tired of launching works in various regions of Greece. But he forgot to say that these projects are PASOK projects. Especially for the Hospital of Lefkada opened by the tired second Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, I must remind him that this project, the Hospital of Lefkada, is the work of Andreas Loverdos, who, as Minister of Health, started it, "run" and comes today with considerable delay to inaugurate Mr. Tsipras. And much more so, according to the complaints made by the WTO, this transfer of patients with complete disagreement between the Director of the Pathological Clinic of the old Lefkada Hospital, who said that the health of the patients is likely to be at risk. But everything had to obey Mr. Tsipras' election announcements. The Prime Minister is preparing, I am learning, for another PASOK project, again hospital, the Hospital of Chalkida. At least the New Democracy, when launching PASOK projects, had the elementary decency to call on the previous Minister or ministers to "run" the project. We also have a full urban situation here, if you wish, because Mr. Tsipras instead of congratulating Andreas Loverdos, to whom do you say he has given congratulations? To Paul Paul Polakis, who did little for the implementation of the Lefkada Hospital. Because in 2015 when you received the project, it was very much ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u150	Come on, Mr. Maniotis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u151	Finally, let us make it clear that from our side, we will fully respect what the Greek people will decide in the next European elections. And the next European elections will be the big surprise for both SYRIZA and the New Democracy, an unpleasant surprise, because the Change Movement will be very enhanced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and four educational escorts from Italian schools. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u153	Madam President, may I have the floor for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u154	To answer Mr. Maniotis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u155	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u156	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. Because I was in my province of Messinia, I would like to say - for the amendment you are tabling on sport and restructuring - that for voting reasons we have heard things from both Volos's good colleague and many colleagues - purely for voting reasons - for groups. And I would like to answer and support the amendment, saying that this was decided by the Super Leauge, by the NGO and by the Ministry of Sports that we gave the television rights to start last year's championship. He wouldn't start any championships. The programming has been made by the ERT and the budget line is defined and rewarding to the ERT, because we put football in every Greek house. So it's rewarding and programming is out. The teams have known it since August last year. This is about me too, because my team, Kalamata, is there, but we need to know what we're talking about here. This amendment is on the right basis. It had been decided, most knew what was going on. I repeat that Mr. Bukoros has three groups there and for voting reasons they have been. Let the New Democracy and all the parties with disagreement reply if it would start last year's championship. And let's answer if Football League, Super League, S.H.I.E.E.L.D. is against you, because you can't be with the policeman and the policeman. The amendment is us - and I close - that we started in the throat last year because the teams had no money to get into the TVs and start the football championships of the Super League, Football League, because the inability of the players arrived here. I would like to conclude by saying something about my good colleague of the Change Movement. We didn't remove the project and they announced it. The Prime Minister said about the hospital's staffing for Mr. Blonde and Mr. Polakis. You'll remember what he said. We do not question when the project started and when it was implemented. But let me tell you one last thing. Two births in four years look at the births taken to private now. Thank you very much, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u158	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u159	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u160	I do not think, Madam President, that I need to explain why I am asking for the floor. I am going straight to the point, and I say to my dear colleague, who was absent and has no knowledge of the dialogue and debate that has taken place here, that the objections of the New Democracy are not at all voters. We have very serious objections to how to legislate, dear colleague, because your Minister was aware of the proposal of the General Assembly of the NGO since August 2018 and had all the time to legislate and not to see.....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u161	...the teams.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u162	I have not interrupted, please, and that is not personal. I would like to explain why the New Democracy is not saying in the amendment because it is its epitome, for example, of poor legislation. He created expectations throughout the year in the teams, let the Minister responsible complete the championships, see the champions, see who they are degraded, and then legislate. This is a bad piece of legislation, which is why we are voting against the amendment, and we believe that this way of putting it into practice is also hiding. Well from there on, Madam President, I am returning the charges of voting, because, as the New Democracy Head of State said, this ministry, my dear fellow Member, has been building a lot of barracks. And can I tell you something else? We are talking about a relevant ministry that managed the impossible, managed to fight behind closed doors, in a final cup, the second largest organization of the country, to make incidents without spectators. This has never happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u163	You've said it three times, Mr. Bucoore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u164	Incompetence is complete and you complain why we disagree? Legitate properly without purpose and not say that it is your fault of the Opposition. You've been running for four and a half years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u165	Mr Xydakis, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Madam President. In the bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport for the construction of the airport in Kastelli Heraklion, the whole discussion took place in a climate of agreement with differentiations, with observations, but in general everyone understands the need for this project and the benefits it will bring to both the island and the national economy. What is interesting is the parallel political debates, which are certainly on the sidelines of a great political confrontation that has taken place over the last few weeks and relates, in particular, to how each political force is dealt with, how it chooses to present its political programme and strategy for the country, or if it does not have what mudslides leads to the whole of the political system. Accidentally, the lion. Mr Tasulas - missing - Member of the Ioannina Parliament, rather a Member of Parliament who is characterised by a decent parliamentary speech, reproduced the announcement of the Athletic Association of PAS Giannina, which, in an inappropriate way and in excess of political insanity, attacked the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister visiting the city of Ioannina and speaking of the airport made a hint, a hint, a compliment for the group of the city. He used the first plural - how inconsistent a Greek to speak to a first pluralist person about the group of the city he visited, honored and honored by the city - and said that "of the year we will go up". Livelos against the Prime Minister because he speaks to a first pluralist person, because he has not seen a match so long. The Prime Minister is accused of not following the games! He is accused of not interfering so that he does not subside and change the legislation. It's unheard of. And it is unheard of, because there is no national strategy for Greece coming out of the crisis, and it must be seen before itself, the Greeks with confidence, with optimism, with realism, with a programme, with a pragmatism of what social groups this society is composed of, what their interests are, how we will work, how we will work to get ahead. It is the absolute poverty of political arguments. The only moving force in the New Democracy right now, as we saw last week, is the rabies of the resalt in power, the rabies of the conservative faction that has now lost all pretext. What about the people's right speak without meaning anything, what about liberalism that has been trampled here in this Chamber in any bill relating to political or individual rights. And, of course, what is constantly being presented in a so-called naive way but actually shows the abstention of the present leadership of the conservative party for the Greek society, for the Greek working class, for the world of work and labour, for the world of production is what its President, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has said. When he was uploaded to the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, he described his vision of equal opportunities, saying how in the child from the people's quarter we will provide him with equal opportunities with the child from Panorama. The same thing was repeated the day before yesterday in a appalling way, the child from the Pork can become a cooler or a lift technician. But he doesn't know society, he doesn't know people. This ignorance is dangerous. The obsession, of course, and the way in which society is viewed is detestable and disgusting. Why doesn't he ask the CEO and president of a systemic bank that he's borrowed from what neighborhood is it? It's from the pigeon. Does he have any idea who Mr. Mitsotakis is talking to? Is the idea that all post-war Greece and the entire 20th century were based on a difficult, but healthy social mobility, in a country which has even allowed children of the people's neighbourhoods, children of the people's order, children of the work to study? This is the vision of Hellenism from the time of the great benefactors of Epirus for the chariots and letters to Greece of the 1950s and the 60s of reconstruction, when the working class, the working districts took off the best doctors, the best lawyers, the best engineers and the best politicians. This is the Greek society. The tribes, the factions and the dynasties fell. The Philippines and Pakistan have dynasties, which must be a son, a nephew, a grandson, to have the right to civilize. In your party, however, you are still dealing with the garrison of Grandfather, who sends it to the villages to fear and vote for the party. What the conservative party of excellence keeps saying is the zipper of her faith in oligarchy. I wonder how there are even Members of the Conservative Party - who are nourished and who come from within the folk classes and in the innermost parts of the Greek society - who accept, how they can withstand, and how they face their orders, their fellow citizens, when their Chief holds such a class college, for whom he calls to vote. So, let's say, you, Mr. Bukoro, in Magnesia, that "you, because you're from Almyros or from Nea Ionia, your future is an assistant gun in the hairdresser, you'll never be a doctor, you'll never be a natural, you'll never be a mathematician." Is it permissible for the new internal society we are living in, to address with this vision to the people of the Greek people? I don't understand it. But let's see what's behind it. What can no longer be concealed from the conservative party with these deprivationist symptoms from the long-standing abstention of power, at least in most of the post-multiple part, is a raw class, abstention for social mobility and a hideous, hideous plan, and for the organisation of work, for the organisation of society and for the organisation of social security. [[At this point the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios GEORGIADIS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The Chief of New Democracy does not understand that the organisation of work, as it emerged in at least the last two centuries of modernity, has arisen through huge claims, very great battles and institutional reforms - reforms of the whole political framework to be eight hours, so that there can be a paid leave. The first paid leave was held in 1936 by the Government of the People's Front in France. In Harvard, what did the president learn, what was he studying? The trickle-down effect, drop the crumbs off the big business table and take a crumb? Can a political party say this to a society affected by eight years of great recession, which is trying to draw up a vision of formation, a vision of regeneration and a vision not only of productive reconstruction but also of regeneration of democracy? Does it understand, when individual or operational negotiations are introduced between business and worker for seven days of work? There are businesses, there are agencies that work 24/7. The hospitals work for twenty - four hours for seven days, the hospitals themselves. Large hotels, too, are regulated by labour law, by labour law. There's a day off, an hour out, an extra pay. Does he have these in his mind and is he prepared to be fortified by a contract with a company, which was exactly what he put in the framework of seven days' work and 24 hours' work of the factory, respecting the rights and conquests of two centuries of struggle, conflict and institutions? I think the only answers that New Democracy can give - and we have heard it from the parliamentary representative - are more recruiting police officers, namely the ghost of order and security. And Mr Mitsotakis from this Step, twice last week, called for an invitation to both the government and the Greek people to guard the border's security. Guard the border. The self-evident thing about any legal order, any democratic state. It's Mr. Mitsotakis' election program. I would remind him, however, because it is just a squeeze on the fear of the citizen, on the fear of the big national issues where there is a concern, there is always: the hardest accusations against Greece that Kurts and Orban were sent to the border, when he was digging out the great refugee problem in Europe. These far-right ones who have no maritime border to defend, those who did not offer a blanket to the European Union's civil protection mechanism, these half-Greeks, these enemies of democracy, the deniers of the Holocaust, the deniers of any democratic tradition in Europe, blamed Greece. Just as the Right in recent years has often wished for a national accident in Greece to come to things, the same things are heard by them in Step. In passing: Whenever Mr Mitsotakis speaks, the collapsing of the progressive world in Greece is being launched.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, what about the seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u169	We'll see what happens with the secondarys. Let's see the time, because at 6 p.m. we have to hand over the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u170	For five minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u171	Five minutes each will not discuss it, because we also have the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u172	It's not as much for the bill as for the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u173	We'll see the time. Let the Minister begin and we'll talk about it. Let us give the Minister the floor and we will be in touch with the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th Lamia High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have eighteen minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u174	Where's the school, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u175	Lamia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u176	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u177	What kind of profession are they going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u178	We'll ask Mr. Mitsotakis. The pigeon gets cooler than he told us. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very pleased to debate in plenary the study - Construction - Financing - Operation - Maintenance and Operation of the New International Airport of Heraklion Crete and Study - Construction and Financing of the Roads in Kastelli, Minoa Pedadas and other provisions. I would ask that the 'and other provisions' be inserted. It is a major infrastructure project, which brings broad acceptance from Parliament. But we are given the opportunity to have a debate on critical issues, crucial aspects of both European policies and national choices and policies and our institutional framework. The first area relates to European policies - and we are just before the European elections - and the consequences they have had throughout Europe, but also in our country. As you know, the powers and policies that prevailed in the European Union were the conservative and neoliberal powers. Unfortunately, they did not defend them and they have not been promoted in the European Union by parties such as the New Democracy Party alone, but also in part, social democracy parties that had a right, if you like, divergence over the last few decades. These parties, therefore, imposed these policies, built up the European productive fabric, brought an unprecedented insight into both the south and Europe, and on these issues - you heard the debate in the committees and today in plenary - not only mention nothing but they are usually trying to get through to individual issues in the debate as a so-called reform policy. So let's see these issues. You are all aware of the dogmatism of the horizontal ban on State aid for all sectors, all activities and at the same time policies to transport critical strategic infrastructure from the public sector to the private sector. It's called flexible, but it's not private. It is the European sovereign banking system. So what has yielded this policy of neoliberalism over all these years and the powers that have supported it in the European Union, but also what are the consequences in our country and throughout Europe? Let us see this on the occasion of the agreement that we are voting on today. The first finding and result of this aviation policy is that central European airports, not only have not been upgraded and have not retained their role, but have managed to make Europe's largest airport in Istanbul bypassing Europe. We need to congratulate ourselves here, because we have been hearing criticism of the Prespecies Agreement all the time. And I would like to congratulate the New Democracy, which has succeeded with the People's Party and its dogmas, for Europe's first airport is Istanbul, since they have an impact on national issues. The same happened to the airlines. The majority of national European air carriers have either closed or been privatised. There have been two and a half European airlines, which cannot compete with third country companies either. As a consequence, Brussels has decided to proceed to controls and sanctions by airline airlines from third countries, which may receive State aid. These are unprecedented things. But these policies are not affected, because in our country, ladies and gentlemen, they have just been disastrous. You remember the Olympic company. After the old communism and the New Democracy loaded it with what it had and did not have, it burns up today because it sold it with zero euros. It does not see the consequences, how much air tickets are in our country and what direct connections to transatlantic flights are. All this is out of the question. I'm coming to the airports. Eleftherios Venizelos operated as a terminal until we took over a government. The infrastructure of Thessaloniki airport was not completed for decades. hundreds of millions of dollars were invested at Thessaloniki Airport, Chania and other airports, which were scheduled to go to TIED for concession. In the rest of the airports there was no provision, not even for Kastelli, which is recognized as a necessity for Crete, for Heraklion, for the country, that an airport must take place there. Why, then, were hundreds of millions of dollars for Thessaloniki, to be granted to TIADED and not planned for Kastelli? It is a question that previous governments must answer. Of course, there was no provision for not only the airport in Heraklion, but also for the other twenty-three public airports. The second finding by European policies that conservative forces and neoliberalism and those who are their allies follow was the deficit of national strategic planning. Was it a lack of knowledge or was it a political choice? And that's what you need to answer. If we had an elementary, substantiated national strategic plan, the airport in Kastelli would have preceded other air works. If we had a strategic infrastructure plan, the road for many airports, such as Sitia, such as Chania, would have been included in the project, as is the case today with Kastelli. It wasn't. I have listened to Mr Tassoula, to the New Democracy in general over the years, that we have been inaugurating projects that started in another sense from our own. I heard Mr. Maniots before. My opinion is that you don't play defenses on this matter. We do not claim the motherhood or the paternity of public infrastructures, even for those projects that you have not dared to award. And we say this because we believe that the infrastructure is not one of anyone but the Greek people who pays these infrastructures, and that is what we are serving. But we will be judged if we are effective. We will be judged on whether the competitions are transparent. We will be judged whether we are moving forward and deepening the institutional framework of public infrastructure, concessions, public works, public-private partnerships, to ensure, not the private one who comes and participates in the project, but society. And that can be done. Castlei is such an example. Why is the first contract that we have the rewarding benefits to society and so many rewarding benefits? Why has this not been done in "Eleftherios Venizelos"? Why didn't it happen at the fourteen regional airports that you had run the competition? Why didn't it happen on the highways? Of course I don't want to comment, I don't want to spoil the climate for the projects that started. There were some works coming out for some of them, the competitions came out and they never finished, and some of them stayed in the memory of the world as a constant demand for society. But to give some answers, because we asked ourselves about specific things, the reasoning and the questions raised by the Members of the New Democracy and Mr Tassoulus. Why didn't the Ionian Street include Yannna - Cakavia, asking us today? Doesn't that make sense? Why didn't it include the connection to the large urban centers, the Preveza and the Agrinio? Why in Egnatia, which was not implemented by SYRIZA, is there not and was the connection with any port, not with Thessaloniki, nor with Kavala, nor with Alexandroupolis, now is it with any industrial area, with any tourist area? You made a report at the airport of Ioannina. Are you proud as New Democracy and leaving us for the airport of Ioannina? Are you proud of the port of Igoumenitsa? In other words, there is a tradition in Epirus with the bridge of Arta, but all the works of Epirus and the country, the New Democracy had made them "the bridge of Arta". And you are abdicating us for the years we have had in isolation, not only by road but also by air and coastline throughout western Greece, Epirus and many parts of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 you had not completed the expropriations on the motorways nor in 50%. Almost ten years after awards and contracts, you had not completed the licenses, the archaeological work, you had not solved any obvious issues that should have been solved, technically or contractually. Today the consultation on the strategic transport infrastructure plan has been completed. For the next twenty years, the country will have a strategic plan, objectives, hierarchy, monitoring structures, indicators. Its policy will be stopped and I do not implement it. Therefore, in particular, the New Democracy must respond to us, rather than resigning, because so many years have not gone ahead with what we are discussing today. Why? And why didn't she go ahead and complete all those infrastructures that she says she thought, she started it, and she did it all? And we come four years after 2015 to launch. You inaugurated with Mr Samaras on closed construction sites with transported workers and machinery. And to remember your own plan for infrastructure recently. Why don't you do something for years at the BOAK? I mean, forty years you've done fifty miles, and for the remaining three hundred, we haven't had a study. Neither the Ministry, nor the Organization for Development of Crete, had come to an end, someone cared for a fundamental study of this project. It was obviously another type of design. But also the smaller works of Crete, as we talk about Crete, were filled with a design failure, with similar errors and omissions. I would like to say about what you are complaining about, what the Prime Minister's recent visit gave to the Cretan and Greek people. Seventeen years the bridge in Hamesi, Lassithi. It's just the Cretan bridge of Arta. It took fifteen years and put it on Apostlemi, twelve years the York - Hersonissos. In 2015, it had a EUR zero absorption in an executed project. And on Saturday, everyone is invited not only to give up on us, not only the Members of Heraklion, who will surrender the road of Messara after three contractors and too, too many years and failures to the people of Crete, just as the Prime Minister had announced a few days ago in his visit. The third finding relates to the institutional framework of the infrastructure. The creation of an infrastructure, and here we shall be talking specifically about Kastelli, always creates reactions. And I am not saying the reactions of people with environmental sensitivities or other political views. These are perfectly acceptable, understandable from me at least by the government. I am referring to the reactions of the economic interest cycles. In this case, and not only in Thriassio, mentioned by Mr Maniatis, the interests that have reacted and reacted for many years - sixteen years to become the two competitions in both Kastelli and Thriasio - either reacted because they had developed around the old infrastructures other economic activities - I am talking about large tourist agencies, but also about other activities, for example, it is common secret who do not want to transfer the airport to Heraklion from Alikarnassos today, despite the security problems that exist, despite other problems - or interests that do not want to run a competitive procedure, because they want to change the terms of the tenders, to be more favourable to the private sector at another time. In this case - we will then - the binding tenders were requested in 2016, when you said that the country is going bankrupt, that the assessment is not over, that we are ending as a nation. And obviously some companies, because these companies do not only have the characteristics of Greek companies, they are multinational, they are joint ventures with the power of funding from international banks, they wanted to reduce the country's risk, so they should not serve our country in the time of crisis, but in their pockets. For this reason, when the answer to a new postponement requested, which was the tenth, if we agreed, was negative, the officials at the Ministry can also tell you that they were crying out of the joy of refusing to extend the tender. People didn't believe, after the trouble they've had over all these years, to make this infrastructure, that once this competition would take the last step and be completed. This pressure, of course, could not exist if we had a strategic infrastructure plan many years ago, had what we changed with No 4412 and No 4413 been established, if there was a strong political will and a public debate. There were no, ladies and gentlemen, a number of changes to the terms of the notice in the previous years. I, too, want to mention them not to bless our beards that 'we have done', but to institutionalise them in the next phase and especially in L.4413 some of them, which I believe are also in the direction of transparency and in the direction of protecting the public interest. The first is that certain conditions, as Vassilis Kegeroglu said, before we make the final changes, have changed because they emerged from consultation. In the consultation, how many had participated? Seven competing companies in the tendering process. Then we proceeded with innovative solutions. One of these, which, in my view, we must adopt, is the process of selecting the independent engineer with a particular tendering procedure rather than being proposed by the contractor, as was the case in previous concessions. In other words, the independent engineer is not dependent on the choice made by the concessionaire. The second is that for the first time it was anticipated in return - and this must be institutionalised - 2% of the airport company's turnover, which will be allocated by 1% to the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas and the rest to the neighbouring municipalities. These rewards are estimated at EUR 184 million. You understand what this is for the municipalities in the region, for infrastructure, for their development. And we're committed to financing a special spatial planning project from the Ministry. There has also been consultation with the relevant Ministry of Spatial Planning in the event that it is not covered by the Green Fund, and the competition will also take place, in order to help the municipality, by the services of the Ministry. We also anticipated the incorporation into the project of the contract for the construction of road links. In order to ensure that the competition and the interests of the public were at times of crisis, we put a minimum percentage of participation in 45%. Also, because we had the bitter experience of the things you committed the country to Memorandum 1 and Memorandum 2, in the tender there is a ban on the transfer of shares held by the State to less than 35%, it has 46.5% of the public. We have limited the number of passengers up to a maximum annual total number of 6.4 million at the existing airport and above are all public revenues at the airport modernisation and development fee. This is something very important because, as you know, passenger traffic has already exceeded eight million. We provided for the approval of the buildings of the airport to require an opinion from the Committee for Architectural Control to examine the compliance of an architectural study with the specifications, but also to ensure that the airport building with the area is harmonized with our cultural heritage. It was planned to build an exhibition centre permanently as a place to view Cretan companies and Cretan products. A permanent report of the antiquities and objects to be found by the excavation to be carried out on the project was provided within the airport. Minimum requirements for a bioliquid building were set for the airport with at least LEED Silver level certification, i.e. a very low energy footprint. In addition, the Commission considers that, in the absence of State aid, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. There was, of course, a provision of seasonal adaptability for the airport because there was another move in the summer and other in the winter months. The construction of the airport's biological clean-up facilities, which will in addition be able to treat waste water for all the districts of the airport, and of course the supply of aircraft fuel by means of an underground supply system, has been envisaged. Our aim is for the airport in Kastelli to be a modern competitive airport that will give a great deal of added value to the country, Crete, in the region, and will be one of the central airports of the Southeast Mediterranean, which will be located about four hours from London, Moscow, Madrid, Doha. You understand the importance of the location of this airport and you understand that it is at the opposite foot of politics, which we had been forced by neoliberalism, even the "Eleftherios Venizelos" to be seen as a terminal. We need to talk about these once, because you too can take a progressive direction once and go to the European People's Party and to Mr Webber to tell him what the catastrophic consequences for our country are, if you care, which is not of interest to you. Let's go to the next: 90% expropriations have already been made. I would like to submit the FVO for the remaining 10%, as well, and to table a study on the expropriated areas which seems to include the assessments in the study for people who expropriate land in relation to primary production. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, we will agree - and that is why we have committed ourselves to the Minister for Justice - that in cases where we have citizens who are mostly farmers' professionals and who lose their tool of life, they must, to a large extent, be replaced in some way. There was a talk not to have the existing airport "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS" the fate of the Greek, that is, the delay of the previous governments and for eleven years, not to know what to do with them. It has also been noted that it does not become an administrative centre. Firstly, there will not be Greek "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS" because the committee was already set up by the relevant ministries to have a roadmap for development. Therefore, the first year in the schedule is planned for the Kastelli permits, we will have gone ahead with the consultation and perhaps the studies of the uses to be provided for in the "KAZADZAKIS NICKI". But this will not result in the logic that you committed the Greek, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it will come from consultation with the local authorities. Heraklion, Crete asked to become an administrative centre there so that it would not be in a very burdensome city dispersed and municipal and regional services. It wasn't our idea. We're not moving in the logic you're moving. There are no four wise men sitting in closed offices and they say what will happen. We talk to local communities, with local government, with healthy productive forces, and then we make the decisions. That's what we've done now. Of course, in order to do this, because the assessment of "NICE KAZADZAKIS" was that it was the worst airport in the country and it ceased to be after the donation of its expansion and modernisation, which we did through duty-free stores, and it is not the only one. And the airport of Paros did the same. You were giving 4.5 million a year, every year on barren lines, instead of completing the airport of Paros, which we also completed with donation. Finally, Mrs Lyberaki mentioned Berlin airport and I would like to thank her, because she is not the only project in a European country - it sounds like they have other features, they have a better organisation than us in many - that has been delayed. The same happened in the past with Rome's metro, it was similar to the Thessaloniki metro. With our country's rail link with the Baltic now, recently with other projects. This shows the pathogens of both the European system and the bureaucracy that exists in the European Commission and the European Bank. They must stop thinking how bad we are, because it is a common European effort to get away from pathogens that exist in Brussels too, they must change too much. Unfortunately, it is not the Left and the progressive powers that ran them all these years. We have, in my opinion, reached a very good place for efficiency and transparency, but within a binding European framework which, Mr Bukkoro, you have had as a New Democracy and as a people's party it imposes and you are, unfortunately, unrepentant. You continue unrepentantly with Mr Weber on worse roads, with flexible working relationships, with the extinction of the social state, with deadlocked policies on healthy productive forces and with a plan of infrastructure - I have heard your President and your executives, Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Karamanlis and the previous Secretary-General for Transport - which has no beginning, middle and finally, they are irreversible infrastructure projects in the logic of old-communism. We do not have that objective for air transport, for the waterways, for the ports or for combined transport like what we did. It was a work directory. I would like to say two things here, one example of an infrastructure you have said and one example of an institutional framework that you have proposed. One is Elefsina - Thebe - Material. This infrastructure, if we had definitively abolished it from the tender, if you do, if you proceed to such a motorway, not what the region is doing, which is right, provides for the contract that you signed and you have revised to pay compensation to the Ionia road and to the E65.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u179	Minister, please, if you please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u180	I shall now conclude, Mr President. In fact, someone wonders how you proposed this, if anything, without the prospect of making a negotiation. They are not irrelevant to the ministers who were there and to the executives. When you did the contracts in the review, the Ministry of Economy played a crucial role. The second is the institutional you are proposing, the standard contracts. Listen, the pilot contracts have incredible contradictions with European law and, in particular, with competition law, which the neoliberal powers have imposed. However, since you are a fan of the independent authorities and of the European framework, bring us an amendment that you are bringing to impress, which is why you are proposing and will go through it, we should send it to Digicom first, and we should also send it to the independent authorities to see what they are going to tell us and to which countries you have told us. You also present your President. It is exposed alone and your executives expose him as much as he should. What European countries does that exist in? Wrong was the information you told him and the man announced. Let's go further. At the BOAK forty years you had done less than fifty kilometers. There was no study of anything else, and that is why I would like to thank the services of the Ministry for the battle for the two competitions and the third for the Northern Axis of Crete in these circumstances, as I would like to thank them for the airport we are discussing today. I would also like to thank the Mayor of Minoa Pedadas, Zacharia Kalogerakis and the District Administrator Stavros Arnautakis, who worked together to proceed with this infrastructure, to consult. I would like to thank all the bodies involved in the consultation, even those who disagree with this infrastructure, either those who agree or those who disagree. I would like to say that, ladies and gentlemen, the airport in Kastelli will be inaugurated at the end of the next four years again by Alexis Tsipras as Prime Minister. I am saying this because I would like to invite you on Saturday, in particular the Members of Heraklion and everyone else, so that we are not told that we are not calling anyone, as the Prime Minister announced on the 18th day, to hand over to the citizens of Crete the road of Messara after seventeen years. We hope that you will report to us on a project launched by the New Democracy. He had two - three contests...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u181	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u182	I shall conclude, Mr President, by giving Mr Maniotis an answer: I do not want to exacerbate the climate, I do not want to say for you, Mr Maniotis. But I have to say things you're saying, they're supposed to be scandalous. Nor will I mention the issue of Lefkada and DAPANOM, which you merged to the Samara government with the CCT, if I remember the TEMIDA well. We are not opening such a debate now, but whenever you want to open it. I'll give a few answers in titles so there won't be gray zones. The first question you asked about the extension of the "Eleftherios Venizelos" contract concerns not our Ministry. We don't have that responsibility, but I won't refuse to lift the glove and answer you. You committed the country to the extension and not to be a competition in the first memorandum and in the second, which you participated in the Samara government. [[Noise from the Wing of Democratic Association]] Then you celebrated at Samara that the three hundred million...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u183	Minister, you're 30-five minutes short.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u184	I'm done, but there can't be gray zones. So then you celebrated for Samara that the three hundred million is triumph. Let's see the papers, but let's see what you've seen. Today we have a contract that is the same for an airport. It happened at the same time, which was a long period of time, Mr. Manatis - we will see you then asked about the Trinity - at the same time as DIGICOM was considering this infrastructure, Kastelli, and the extension of the contract to "Eleftherios Venizelos". It is obvious that in addition to the answers given by Euclids Tsakalotos as the relevant Minister of the TSED and the Supreme Court, it is time to compare the figures to see that at the same time the Competition Directorate used what was done in a competitive procedure in Kastelli and to the extension of "Eleftherios Venizelos". It's so simple. You also call on us to answer why it does not have, because we couldn't change the contract, since it was an extension for twenty years, nor on one condition. Tell us why it has no reward, because it does not have the other predictions that Kastelli has the "Eleftherios Venizelos" and the New Democracy - because that was the contract - and you have changed after the contract. The second...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u185	Minister, you're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u186	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ask a question. The first question you asked, which you supposedly revealed the terrible documents, was about the Triumph. The document you refer to on GAIAOSE and TRENOSE has nothing to do with what you have denounced in the previous ratification of the Trinity Convention. It's about the concession of the transit centre. It's Triumph 2. The contract between GAIAOSE and TREENOSE was on the Government of Samaras that you were Minister, who reacted to the administration of the OSE that they poorly delivered these properties to TREENOSE that were to be privatised...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u187	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u188	No, I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u189	But you've been talking for thirty-six minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u190	That's enough of mocking! You've made quite a fool of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u191	You're welcome, Mrs. Zarulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u192	I have to answer. What should I do to him? She wouldn't ask. The second is the document from the Competition Committee. I was given here the Kastelli services, because it is a common procedure, when you send to the Competition Directorate of the European Commission, to ask questions about State aid - which I said before - and about a number of other conditions of competition. So in Kastelli in September 2016 - number to check it SA46454 to the European Commission's 'DIGICOM' - requested clarifications and asked questions on 11-10-16, on 10-14, on 26-10-17, on 31-1-18, hundreds of questions about Kastelli. We responded accordingly, as did the competent body that did the competition for "Thriasio 1". GIASOSE must and, as far as I know, has answered the questions raised by DIGICOM. It's not something unprecedented, as you presented it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u193	Minister, once again, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u194	I would therefore suggest that Mr Maniotis - I hope, anyway - has asked us a question to answer. I don't remember having made us. I hope that, in order to answer this question, although I am entering, Mr Maniotis, the temptation not to answer you to make a timely question and answer you here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u195	Calm down. Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u196	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this work, Kastelli, does not belong to any Minister, any government, any regional or mayor. It belongs to the Greek people who pay it, and so will the infrastructure of the country with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, Mr Maniotis, continue for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u197	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u198	Wait, Mr. Maniot. I've seen you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-eight students and students and five teachers from the 47th Municipal School of Heraklion. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here you go, Mr. Manatis, what would you like?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, the Minister has said two blatant lies about my position and I would like you to give me two minutes to answer the blatant lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u200	Strictly two minutes, Mr. Maniatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u201	Lie first: Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, you falsely said that in the contract of the airport, which we are proud to sign the PASOK with the Minister of Public Works Kostas Laliotis after an amendment to the original New Democracy Convention, following an initial contract of the New Democracy of the Government of Mitsotakis, which was amended by Kostas Laliotis, there, therefore, Minister, it is clearly stated that the extension of the contract can be made either in cooperation and in agreement with the public service with the contractor established, or in an international competition. So I want you to tell me why you chose not to make an international competition, but rather to proceed to direct negotiations with the established company and to underestimate the value of an asset of the Greek people by six hundred million. So lie one, get it back. Kostas Laliotis signed - and you had to use this possibility - the public's ability to proceed to an international competition and not to a direct negotiation, as you do. The second lie: Here, Mr President, is the OSE document, which the Minister told us that 'these with OSE, TRENOSE and Thriasia have been done by you evil 'Samarovenezels'. Mr Minister, I will return to you for the minutes the OSCE document which on page 2 denounces to you, unless you do not read the documents you are sent to you. So it says in the fourth paragraph. Listen to me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Maniatou, please. Briefly. There's another bill, and we can't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u203	"As from 17/7/2017 private agreement between GAIAOSE and OSE on the registration of the railway infrastructure located, etc., the agreement of 17/7/2017 raises important legal issues" and has three pages of objection by the CEO of the OSE.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u204	It's clear, Mr. Maniottes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u205	You're not doing well, Mr. Maniatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u206	Minister, wait. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u207	The Minister must now withdraw the two blatant lies, with which the National Parliament has tried to lure away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u208	Don't get up, Minister. I'll tell you. Hold on...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u209	Please submit this document for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u210	It's clear, Mr. Maniottes. Let's keep going. Minister, please keep notes. We have to have the seconds and answer later, because you have to close the bill all over the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u211	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u212	Oh, no. Just a minute and five minutes later? You'd better tell it all together at the end. Mr. Maniatis will be waiting for you to hear. It is not compulsory to do this now. Have a seat. Mr. Bukokore, you, Mr. Kegeroglou and Mr. Synthetakis have asked for the floor. I would like to thank the other colleagues who have agreed not to give a leftover to facilitate parliamentary work. You have your second language for three minutes, so we can proceed with the vote and close the bill. There's another bill. Mr. Buquoore, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u213	I will try to be as brief as I can, although a great deal has been said, Mr President. I am pleased that the Minister, with emphasis on what we always say from the Step of the House, namely that large public works do not belong to any party, to any government, to any local ruler, but to the Greek people, who pays them, and that is a permanent position of the New Democracy, because these projects go beyond government mandates. For the delays, which have been made a long time, I said in my morning position that it does not matter whether a government has been delayed four years and the other five. There were delays. And if the Minister were to listen at this time, I would like to say to him that, in my personal view, the delays in this project, announced in 2008 by the then Karamanlis government - and we now reach 11 years after the ratification of the concession - are due mainly to the fact that there was no investment interest and that there was no funding. "LEHMAN BROTHERS" 2008, crisis in Greece in 2010, therefore the 2011 competition, Minister, was declared barren and could not attract any investor, no company. In other words, if we want to be fair, we must say that the crisis, the global crisis and the European and especially the Greek ones, have mainly delayed this task. Proof of this is that a consortium finally came in in the present competition. Let us not try to make policy either by dropping the delays or who owns the projects, who plans them, who launches them. I have the commitment of Mr Spirtzi to social rehabilitation, because there are indeed global and European financial instruments for social and professional rehabilitation. Here, in this case, we are talking about people whose main profession is agricultural production. I'm keeping this commitment. I have said so in my position, because expropriation and then compensation do not constitute a social or professional restoration of the affected producers in the region. So we can look for the tools. What scares us most is compliance with the timetables, because there are some blurred points, which need to be cleared, such as the definitive unit price, environmental, anti-milling and all these stories, in combination with the Northern Road Axis, for which I hear that in forty years they have only been fifty-mile meters. But all the big roads in the country became. In any case, the government, in proportion, should have presented five kilometres, so that we do not put everything in the balance and with the drop-off. From there on, today's almost universal consensus on the work of the amendment on the restructuring of the categories of championships, which Mr Vassiliou did not owe today, and a large part of the debate, focused there. It's unfair to many teams. It's a bad way of coining. We've said it, we're not going to repeat it. I will only need a minute to mention the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, whom I very much appreciate, because I believe that he has been unfair to the New Democracy too. Mr Xydakis, you and the Minister for neoliberalism have also spoken to us. You should give your mind well that the New Democracy remains the only popular liberal party in the country, which is why it is doomed to the conscience of the electorate and it is the only one that remains a big party throughout the post-mopulation period. From there on, with regard to what our President said about the work, the President is responsible for what he says and not for what you understand or want to see, or you want to promote, by proving the panic of the SYRIZA in the face of the demographic collapse and the upcoming democracies. Instead of trying to get caught by a phrase by Mitsotakis, when you, the leftists, who created the generation of 360 euros, the new generation of 'three and sixty's, when a 40% of the employees are under employment and his earnings are 332 euros, that is, much under the unemployment benefit, you should be more indulgent to your criticism. From there on, we are all judged and judged by the Greek people who are in favour of their interests and who is not. I repeat, however, that the New Democracy is the only great folk and liberal party, while the party that you serve has grown up because of the crisis, has ridden the rage, has promised everyone everything, and 4% has become 34%, Mr Xydakis. That's what this is about. In the next elections, the electoral downturn is a given one. From there, however, this hopeless effort to get something, to work on it, to convert it, to propaganda it, to save yourself, does not show anything but panic for the overwhelming election defeat coming on May 26th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u215	There's nothing personal, Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u216	I'd like the floor for sixty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u217	If it were personal, I'd understand it. He commented on your position and gave you an answer without being insulting. He gave up his opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u218	I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u219	I understand, but please make it easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u220	I kept my time. I spoke 30 seconds less. I'd like sixty seconds to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u221	I understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u222	Sixty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u223	I don't know what you'll understand, Mr. Xydakis, really. You've got a minute hard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u224	We had to start the next meeting now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u225	The other meeting will be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u226	Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the SYRIZA Government has not cut the minimum wage and has not introduced the reproach of the subordinate for young people. Secondly, if we do not understand something - which we understand very well - it is the political abstention that young people have to bear in the working class and the Greek people and their dream of propulsion and social mobility. But in any case, we respond to political arguments. We are neither beating photos nor opening mud walls on the personal life of the political leadership.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u227	Are you referring to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u228	Your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u230	Mr Xydakis earlier, trying to criticise Mr Mitsotakis for what he said about the man from Peristeri, unwittingly - because he does not do so at any time - acknowledged that great progress in the country has actually been achieved, in relation to not only social mobility - as he called it - but with the opening of roads to the world, which were on the sidelines, for the world that was not dealing with politics. And this project is a PASOK project. It did not refer to Law No 1264/82 which safeguards employment rights. The only government that dared to touch him reset the lock - out was the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Of course, that is not all, and I cannot deal with other issues in plenary, but with the projects I cannot say: the Minister spoke to us about the major axes, the advance, etc. Well, yes, although previous ministers had given a gift of 704 million to the major concessionaires, of course, the works would have been over before. However, every day's works admitted to it, both of them and of the people's proverb: two donkeys were fighting in a foreign barn. And the New Democracy has done the same thing before, in the period 2004, 2007, 2008, by inaugurating works of the previous period, and SYRIZA does so now, after delay and lies. He adds the lies. I mean, the Minister said that he's done, he's shown, and so on. Neither a department has auctioned nor a department has financed it. On the contrary, he canceled the competition, which was funded, with the money guaranteed for the Panormos - Exanti section. He annulled him. He disappeared the contest. The same thing he told us about the completion of the Heraklion - Messara road, which would be completed for two years now. With seven topical questions I brought to you here, Minister, I was asking you why you did not sign the contract of tender in 2014, because you do not assign the second contractor and you only insist on the first, the illegal one. You've been insisting on two years. When you saw and proved that you could not give him the work, of course you gave it to the latter. You come back then and you say about the deadlines that we can't make it, and so on. Did you forget that? A little modesty doesn't hurt. I have, I think, put myself in a very serious position on this subject, giving each side a positive one. You want to hear the negatives? That's not how it's done. Tell us about the international airport and the expansion for twenty years. Get up and tell us. While there is no commitment from any Memorandum or any law to ensure that you do not have a new international competition, you unilaterally proceeded with the negotiation. And not just. Have you still not answered or invited the rapporteurs to an apology, whether they were members of the HSE, the board of directors or anyone, why less than 600 million? Why? Will you finally give us this answer? In any case, because I do not want to see this debate closed with all the negative ones, I would like to say on the issue of the international airport in Castelli. "Casteli" you'll say it unless you don't want to. Will you call it "Chanya", will you say "San Nicholas"? Tell us whether the name Nikos Kazantzakis is retained, in your opinion. Not that you will ensure it, because it will do so by another government, but what is your opinion? Because I've made you a suggestion. But tell us, can't you mention anything specific about the special development project that the municipality has asked you to do? All right, the games, the games go and come! Can you tell us the amount of funding, timing and duration for the special development? You can tell us, this commitment to the special spatial planning, why hasn't it been made so far? What prevented you from doing it? Tell us what prevented you? Why are you lying about expropriations to humans? They've collaborated expropriations to get their fortune. This is the legal effect of expropriation. The actual effect of expropriation for the owner is when you compensate him and he hasn't been compensated for not lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u231	Please complete, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u232	And because you've said a lot of good things to the directors, I see the principal director, the minister's worthy behind you and the other directors. You're not telling me: before you, these executives weren't working? Do they only work on your term of office? Because if they too admit that they did not work until you came and therefore do not deserve congratulations for the previous period, which I have been giving them for the entire period, then we will also ask them back to what they have received as remuneration.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u233	Please complete, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u234	So don't tell us that in Greece life began when you personally took over a Ministry. For God's sake, that's what you said here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u235	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u236	Forty minutes, not to say what. Instead of saying seriously and responsibly and talking about the airport, you spoke about everything else except the airport, Minister, and we confined ourselves to it. And we have condemned the government because it has brought us here inappropriate amendments to this draft law, to this ratification of the contract for the important work. What did you want to tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. Come on, Mr. Synatiakis, so we can finish it. You will answer everyone, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, the Minister spoke forty minutes and another ten to fifteen minutes this dog fight between SYRIZA, PASOK or to personalise it, between the Minister, as a former PASOK official, with the current unrepentant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u239	Why don't you take a seat on what you hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Igoumenides, don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u241	I repeat, how much is it about the Cretans, the Castellians, if they are less or more intertwined? I'm being honest. They're both throwing the ball in the crate, and you know why? The Minister didn't tell the whole truth. And when you don't tell the whole truth, it's worse than lying. He said it was a public airport. Hey, it's not public! Why do you say it's public and indeed it belongs to the people of Crete? Where and where? Forty minutes you could not substantiate that it was a public airport. It's a purely private airport, with a colonial contract, you're giving free construction of this airport to the companies, you're subsidizing them with 180 million. And in six years, they'll be over and they'll get unstoppable profits from this story. Of course, with the North Axis and the connecting streets, Kastelian will be invited to pay, leaving Kastelianos to go to Hersonissos, whether he wants to go to Heraklion or whether he wants to go to Chania or to Agios Nikolaos. So here's why you don't tell the whole truth. And this strategy for the privatisation of airports, which began with the privatisation of the ten airports in Fraport and the great scandal is this: When Daskalogannis was ready with public funding – an extension of money, that is, of the Greek people, you and you granted it, of course by taking the chef from New Democracy, because it was ready for the New Democracy to grant it to individuals. You go ahead and give it to Fraport, to a private colossus. Is it or isn't it? There was continuity with ten ports in the country. And it is part of a comprehensive strategy, which says: important sectors of the economy, strategically important, such as ports, airports, waste, water, deliver them, ber rather than private individuals. That's your policy. Is that what you want to say, 'neo-liberalism','social democracy'? One is the two sides of the same currency, both here in Greece and at European level. Finally, Mr President, we tabled two amendments: one concerned the permanentisation of five-year and contracted fire extinguishers. The second concerned the abolition of the anti-grassroots tax reduction measure provided for by Law 4472 of 2017, two very important amendments, since the first concerned the strengthening of the anti-military protection, the anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism shielding of the country, with additional staff, with an additional two thousand seven hundred five-year-old employees with contracted firefighters and the second concerned duty-free. So are you going to reduce it or are you not going to reduce it? You shouldn't have said five words, two blankets, one word if you accept or not? And if you do not accept, what is the reason you do not accept? In any case, especially the amendment on tax exemption for incomes of employees and pensioners, we reinstate it in the bill for the hundred and twenty instalments. And we call on the government to take a stand, like the other parties. 'Behold, Rhodes, behold, and fuck.' Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. Minister, please, in short, I give the floor to you for three minutes to close, proceed to the vote and go to the next bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the last, Mr. Synhronakis, because he caused a little bit. We are not used to the JRC in such populism in its positions. Thank God. Mr. Synthrakis has been tempted, not the first time this Member enters, that's all right. I ignore it, I do it by-pass, Mr Syntagakis, because you are a member of the JRC. However, is it obvious that infrastructure projects, when they come out with a public-private partnership, what is more to do, as public-projects or as PPPs? As public works or as concessions? It is obvious that it is good to do it as public works, as long as you tell us where to find the money to do it, unless you think that Crete has to wait for another fifty years, until we find out from the Public Investment Programme 500 million plus, to build such an infrastructure. The same applies to your house, Mr. Syngiakis. If you had money in your pocket to do it, it would have contributed more than just borrowed from a bank to build it, and obviously, it would have contributed even more than telling a third party to borrow and build it for you to have it. So that's common sense. I do not think we need to discuss this in Parliament. We don't have the money to make that big public infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u244	What did you do with the money? Indirect taxes, what did you do with the money?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u245	This is because of the specific policy of neoliberalism in the European Commission, which has reduced the budgets in infrastructure, which has led public infrastructures to become private and projects to be'sustainable', without looking at the side of insurance and the development of infrastructure. Now, Mr President, I would like to say some of what has been said, not about Castelli, for the rest. First of all, I'm very happy for Yannis Maniotis. I'm happy because he defended Costas Laliotis. Kostas Laliotis, with the late Prime Minister, had also changed the contract at the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos", as you know and reduced twenty years and given this, but did not make the contract that he had to. He couldn't, because the contract was ready. So you can't, when you find a ready contract, as we found the ten airports, which you had made the competition, to change everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u246	I am pleased that Yiannis Maniatis had shown a different direction, of the strategic integration of KINAL with the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u247	Don't be so disgusting!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u248	I'm telling you, Mr. Maniatis. I remember the principal...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u249	It's a misery you're doing. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Maniatou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u251	The director you had, Mr. Maniatis, at the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u252	Shame on you! Such misery will be answered, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Maniatis, there's no reason. The Minister's talking. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u254	The director you had, Mr. Maniatis, at the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u255	It's a disgrace! You must be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u256	Come on, please! [[Noise from the Wing of Democratic Association]] Minister, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u257	The director, Mr. Maniatis, who was at the Ministry, as Minister of Mr. Samaras, is a partner of Mr. Mitsotakis today and many members of your office in Argolida are candidates for the Mayor of Argos, which is supported by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u258	And you, from PASOK, went to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u259	Yeah, I went from PASOK to SYRIZA. I haven't hidden that, I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u260	Are you teaching us a lesson now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u261	Am I teaching you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u262	You're swinging the finger on the man.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u263	Don't defend Mr. Maniots.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u264	Slitting machine!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u265	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Let's finish sometime!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u266	I'm glad Mr. Maniotis defends Mr. Laliotis. I'm glad. It has begun to go to the left social democracy, not to the right, which I had the feeling of going so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u267	Slitting machine!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u268	No, I'm glad. What can I say, that I'm not happy with it? I'm glad.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, I shall speak on a personal note.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u270	I also wanted to say to Mr Kegeroglu for the Messara competition. It should be noted that there are committees, courts, objections, pre-trial appeals, in order to entrust a project. So there was no delay of ours. As you know, as you know, the claims and what you had foreseen in the contracts were 1.5 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u271	Minister, please finish, so we can go to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u272	Leave what we say and take the Court of Auditors' report for 2010-2014 to read it. You don't have to say about us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u273	Minister, please shorten.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u274	Do I have to answer that? Would you excuse me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u275	What do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u276	You asked me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Maniatou, please! Minister, can you please shorten up?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u278	I'm done. For Kastelli, the competent Minister of Eukleidis Tsakalotos has given the appropriate answers, but you do not want to understand them. My suggestion, Mr. Kegeroglu, is that in the name of the airport, you may enter the airport of Kastelios - Heraklion. It cannot be changed today, because in international airport standardisation, in relation to the Civil Aviation Service there will be a problem. So the Heraklion must be seen. Also, my proposal to Alexis Tsipras is, at the end of the next four years, the new airport is called Dominikos Theotokopoulos - El Greco. It's my proposal, I don't know what the Prime Minister will adopt. To close, I mean something that didn't sound here, but it's useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u279	Minister, soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u280	I'm finishing this because there's been a matter in some media. There are too many people at risk with infrastructure and not just. In recent months, in order to be made public and not only - it has been customary to do so, and sometimes - Mr Tselentis has published today that there is a problem with a bridge. For Christ's sake! A few months ago, he told us that there would be a great earthquake in Western Greece, with terrible consequences for tourism. I would ask that, Mr Bukkoro, from New Democracy, because he is a candidate for the New Democracy, that the New Democracy should a little short on its candidate, that it should not jeopardise and sprinkle rumours both about the country's infrastructure and about seismic activity, so that it can be made public. That's the best version for him. There's the other one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr. Minister. It's being declared obsolete...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, please, the personal speech for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Maniatis, no, there is no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u284	On staff, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u285	We're closing a second longer, the Minister must speak again. There's nothing personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u286	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u287	Can you hear me, Mr. Maniattes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u288	You are violating the Rules of Procedure if you do not give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u289	I'm not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u290	The Minister insulted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u291	He didn't offend you. There was nothing on personal grounds to offend you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u292	Colleagues have heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u293	They all heard. You've all taken the floor with tolerance. We have to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, do your duty under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u295	My duties are done and please help us to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u296	I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u297	There's no staff, Mr. Maniatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u298	How isn't there? He didn't mention me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u299	All right, let me hear what the staff are. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for thirty seconds to develop what the staff is. If I don't listen to staff, I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u300	On personal grounds alone. Minister, you as a man, who when you were...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Maniatis, let's hear the staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u302	I'll tell the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u303	What is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u304	I'll talk to you about me. The Minister, as President of the TEE, came and begged for his participation in various PASOK actions, until the end of 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u305	That's not personal, Mr. Maniattes. Your staff tell me what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u306	Staff is lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u307	What part did the Minister refer to?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u308	The lie that as Minister, I had to sign up to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u309	Read the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u310	Come on, Mr. Kegeroglu. Please! Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u311	Please, Mr President! Why don't you give us the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u312	Don't give me any hints! I know the Rules of Procedure. Sit down, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u313	What are you, and we won't suggestions for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u314	Have a seat...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u315	Don't tell me'seat down'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u316	Read to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u317	I've read. You have asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u318	You're interrupting me all the time. You haven't even given me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Maniotis, I gave you the floor beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u320	Don't interrupt me anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u321	Say the staff, so we can finish the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u322	So I read the disgusting lies of the Minister, who said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u323	No, you won't read the horrible lies. You will tell staff right now what the Minister said, so I can understand the reason for the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, please come to your senses. You didn't give me a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u325	I didn't understand you. Should I come to my senses?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u326	You're not gonna tell me how to talk! You wouldn't dictate to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u327	What did the Minister say on staff for you, so you could talk about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u328	Do I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u329	So far, you're talking two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u330	You're not leaving me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u331	But you're saying other things. The staff are on something specific that the Minister said to you and you want to answer. If you say anything else, it's not personal...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u332	Can I have the personal speech for a minute without interrupting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u333	What's personal, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u334	Let me go and I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u335	But you started and didn't say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u336	Give me a minute without interrupting me. Minister, you falsely said that I claimed the EUR 600 million scandal, for which you are politically and criminally accountable, because you too signed. The EUR 600 million you didn't bring it from your father. It is the Greek people and has been slapped by the European Competition Commission and you are trying to find an excuse, allegedly in the law. So I'm reading you the law. Law 2338/14-9-1995. I read you three lines, to be recorded in the Minutes, what you had to do if you really defended the public interest. Article 4(4): Within 20 years of ‘the Hellenic State and the Airport Company will start to decide whether they can agree on terms on which this Convention may be extended’. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You could not go any further, not assign the 600 million Greek citizens to the international competition...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u337	All right, Mr. Maniotis, that's understandable. You've taken more than your time. Please complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u338	This is the lie that tries to involve me in order to relieve his government and himself of a strong political scandal of 600 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u340	Minister, will we have this dialogue? Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u341	It's obvious what Mr. Maniot is doing. He has a special role to play. It turned out what I said before. But to answer that, although it is not my responsibility or competence, and we have said it a thousand times. Mr. Maniatis, you did not start the process of extending concessions. In the government where you were a Minister, didn't you celebrate the 300 million who you supposedly achieve with the extension of the contract? Why are you hiding that you committed the country to the government that you participated as Minister, not to competition and to extend the existing convention? Why are you hiding that? The other thing you said about Mr. Laliotis, you're right. It found a contract that was forty, fifty years, reduced it by twenty years and allowed it either to tender or to extend the contract within the contract. You, the government to which you were Minister, committed the country not to competition. And you're asking for the change. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u342	The debate on the first, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is closed: "Preparation of the Concession of the Project of Study - Construction - Financing - Operation - Maintenance and Operation of the New International Airports of Heraklion Crete and Study - Construction and Financing of its Roads and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, three articles, eight amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on your screen they appear as four articles to vote, to vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right-hand side of the screen the number of articles remaining for voting is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u343	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u344	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: [[CHANGING PAGE]] "Preparation of the Concession of the Project of the Study - Construction - Financing - Operation - Maintenance and Operation of the New International Airports of Heraklion Crete and Study - Construction and Financing of its Roads and other provisions". The Authority.....INFERENCES SYRIZA: YES [[CHANGING PAGE]] N.B.YES PUBLIC: YES C.A.: OXI C.E.: OXI THE PUBLIC: YES EUR. CENTRES: YES Article 1 as it SYRIZA: YES N.B.YES PUBLIC: YES C.A.: OXI C.E.: OXI THE PUBLIC: YES EUR. CENTRES: YES Article 2 as it is.......Allociations SYRIZA: YES N.B.YES PUBLIC: YES C.A.: OXI C.E.: OXI THE PUBLIC: YES EUR. CENTRES: YES Article 3 as it SYRIZA: YES N.B.YES PUBLIC: YES C.A.: OXI C.E.: OXI THE PUBLIC: YES EUR. CENTRES: YES Ministerial Amendment 2160/60 as it exists... SYRIZA: YES N.B.: PRON PUBLIC: YES H.A.: PN K.E.: YES THE PUBLIC: YES EUR. CENTRES: PRINCIPLES Ministerial Amendment 2162/61 as it stands.....As it stands SYRIZA: YES N.B.OXI PUBLIC: OXI C.A.: OXI K.E.: PN THE COURT: OXI EUR. CENTRES: YES Ministerial Amendment 2164/63 as it stands.. SYRIZA: YES N.B.OXI PUBLIC: OXI C.A.: OXI K.E.: PN THE COURT: OXI EUR. CENTRES: YES Ministerial Amendment 2166/64 as it is.....INVESTMENT SYRIZA: YES N.B.YES PUBLIC: YES H.A.: PN K.E.: PN THE PUBLIC: YES EUR. CENTRES: PRINCIPLES Ministerial Amendment 2167/65 SYRIZA: YES N.B.YES PUBLIC: YES H.A.: PN K.E.: PN THE WORLD: EUR. CENTRES: PRINCIPLES Motion for a resolution 2168/66 SYRIZA: YES N.B.: PRON PUBLIC: YES C.A.: OXI K.E.: YES THE PUBLIC: YES EUR. CENTRES: YES Parliamentary Amendment 2170/68 as it is.....INVESTMENT SYRIZA: YES N.B.OXI PUBLIC: YES C.A.: OXI C.E.: OXI THE WORLD: EUR. CENTRES: YES Parliamentary Amendment 2171/69 as it stands........BUFFER PAYMENTS SYRIZA: YES N.B.: PRON PUBLIC: YES C.A.: OXI K.E.: YES THE WORLD: EUR. CENTRES: PRINCIPLES Cereals article as it SYRIZA: YES N.B.YES PUBLIC: YES C.A.: OXI C.E.: OXI THE PUBLIC: YES EUR. CENTRES: YES The total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ SYRIZA: YES N.B.YES PUBLIC: YES C.A.: OXI C.E.: OXI THE PUBLIC: YES EUR. CENTRES: YES
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u345	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Creating a Concession Convention for the Project of Study - Construction - Financing - Operation - Maintenance and Operation of the New International Airports of Heraklion Crete and Study - Construction and Financing of its Roads and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u346	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u347	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S1-commons.u348	With the agreement of the House at 18.30 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 13 May 2019 at 18.35 p.m., on the subject of this House's work, according to the agenda distributed.
