ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 18-07-2019 delegation, the minutes of its 2nd session, Thursday 18 July 2019 (morning) concerning the election of President of Parliament were confirmed by the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION The subject of today's special agenda is the election of three Vice-Presidents, two Quaestors and four Secretaries from the first to a power of Parliament, one Vice-President, one Quaestor and one Secretary from the second to a power of Parliament, one Vice-President and one Secretary from the third to a power of Parliament, and one Vice-President from the other three parliamentary groups. Under Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, these members of the Bureau are elected by four successive separate votes. For the time economy, it is proposed that a catalogue be read on the list. Do I have the approval of this House for one list reading?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S2-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The vote is roll-call. From the first to power New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis is proposed for the position of the First Vice President, Mr. Charalambos Athanasios Athanasios and Mr. Athanasios Bouras. From the second to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas is proposed for the position of the First Vice-President. From the third to the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos is proposed for the position of the First Vice-President. From the fourth to the power of Parliamentary Group of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. George Lambroulis is proposed for the position of F' Vice-President. From the fifth to the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Apostolos Avdelas is proposed for the position of Z' Vice President. From the sixth to the power of Parliamentary Group of Mera25 it is proposed that Mrs Sophia Sakorafa be appointed Vice-President. From the first to power New Democracy Parliamentary Group on Quaestors' Post, Mr. Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis and Anna Mani - Papadimitriou, while the office of Secretaries from New Democracy is proposed. Evangelos Liakos, Konstantinos Kyanakis, Vassiliou Vassiliades and Marias - Alexandra Kephala. From the second to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on the Quaestor's post Mr Marios Katsis is proposed and for the Secretary's post Mrs Rallia Christidou. From the third to power Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement is proposed for the post of Secretary Mr.Apostolos Panas. You have therefore been distributed four lists as follows: A vote with the names proposed for the posts of the 1st, 2nd and 3 Vice-Presidents, a vote with the names of the nominated for the posts of the 4, V, F, G and V Vice-Presidents, a single ballot with the names of the nominated for the post of Quaestors and a corresponding with the names of the Secretaries. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that they have a preference for each person in the corresponding column 'yes' or'residences'. In addition, in every ballot, the Member should put his name on the list, given that his vote, his constituency and his parliamentary group are nominal, and finally put his signature on the table. The vote will take place with four ballots. I would remind you, as Mr Bordenos said at the previous sitting, that the reason why the vote is not being taken electronically is that electronic cards have not yet been issued, for which you signed yesterday. So these procedures, like the procedures in the programme statements and the vote on Monday evening, will be done in the traditional way. So the vote will be one with four ballots as follows: The first poll will be like the first ballot, it will be marked "A', B' and III Vice-Presidents", i.e. it is for the three Vice-Presidents of the New Democracy as the first in a force of Parliamentary Group. The second poll will be marked "F', V', F', Z', V' Vice-Presidents" for Vice-Presidents from the other parliamentary groups. The third call is for the Quaestors and will be written "Cosmotors" and the fourth one for the Secretaries. Members of Parliament Mr. Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy and Mrs. Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA are invited to this list. Before I call on the voters, I would like to ask the Members who sit at the front seat to give their seats to the voters, who will also monitor the procedure and we need the closeness that the front seats give. The voters are called for the first poll "A', B' and B' Vice Presidents" by Mrs Stergiani (Stras) Biziou and Mr Christoforos - Emmanuel Boutsikakis from New Democracy and Mr George Psychogios from SYRIZA. For the second poll, i.e. for the office of the IV, the V, the F, the Z, and the Vice-Presidents, from the New Democracy, etc. Ioannis Melas and Christos Dermentzopoulos of Alexandros and Mr Socrates Vardakis of SYRIZA. For the third call, for the Quaestors, Mr. Georgios Kotsiras and Mrs. Catherine Monuy from New Democracy and Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides from SYRIZA. The fourth, that is to say, the post of Secretaries, and Mr Van den Broek. Phillips Loading and Anastasios Hadjivassiliou from New Democracy and Alexandros Meikopoulou from SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote on today's vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will follow the vote. I would also ask the House to agree unanimously in the case of lists, for practical reasons, referring to a particular category of proposed one, to be regarded as valid by mistake to another voter. The vote shall also be deemed valid in favour of the person or persons referred to therein, irrespective of the existence of a cross. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S2-commons.u3	The House has agreed. I would ask the voters to come to the ballots, so that the vote can begin. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S2-commons.u4	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters by Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis and Mr. Koumoutsakos, who were sent to the Bureau for participation in the roll-call vote on election 1, 2, III, IV, V, V, F, G and H' Vice Presidents and the election of Quaestors and Secretaries, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S2-commons.u5	I also inform you that letters by Mr Christos Dimas, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis and Mr. Papandreou have been sent to the Bureau to inform us that they are absent from the vote and what they would vote if they were present. These letters are intended to vote, to be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting, but the vote is not taken into account in the count.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S2-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen of the vote to proceed with the counting of the ballots and the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S2-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the result of a roll-call vote on the election of Vice-Presidents, Quaestors and Secretaries of this House. A total of 295 Members voted. For the post of First Vice-President, 295 MPs voted. Mr. Nikitas Kaklamanis received 290 votes. "PARON" have voted 5 MPs. Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is therefore elected as First Vice-President of the Parliament. For the second vice-president's post, 295 MPs voted. Mr. Charalambos Athanasios received 212 votes. 'PARON' voted 83 MPs. Therefore, Mr. Charalambos Athanasios, according to the Constitution and the Rules of the Parliament, is elected as the Second Vice-President of the Parliament. For the post of the 1st Vice-President, 295 MPs voted. Mr. Athanasios Bouras received 273 votes. 'PARON' 22 Members voted. Therefore Mr Athanasios Bouras, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is elected as the third Vice-President of the Parliament. For the post of First Vice-President, 295 MPs voted. Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas received 282 votes. 'PARON' voted 13 MPs. Therefore, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is elected as the fourth Vice-President of the Parliament. For the post of Vice-President, 295 Members voted. Mr. Odysseus Konstantinopoulos received 214 votes. ‘PARON’ voted 81 MPs. Therefore, Mr. Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, according to the Constitution and the Rules of the Parliament, is elected as the Vice-President of the Parliament. For the post of F' Vice-President, 295 Members voted. Mr. George Lambroulis received 273 votes. 'PARON' 22 Members voted. Mr. George Lambroulis, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is therefore elected as F Vice-President of the Parliament. For the post of Z' Vice-President, 294 MPs voted. Mr. Apostle Avedlas received 180 votes. "PARON" voted 114 MPs. Therefore, Mr. Apostle Avedlas, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is elected as Z' Vice-President of the Parliament. For the post of the Vice-President, 295 MPs voted. Mrs Sophia Sakorafa has received 243 votes. 'PARON' have voted 52 MPs. So Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is elected as the Vice-President of the Parliament. For the post of Quaestors, a total of 295 Members voted. From the first to the force of Parliament's group, they received: Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis 269 votes. 'PARON' 26 MPs voted. Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou 268 votes. 'PARON' 27 Members voted. For the post of Quaestor from the second to the power of Parliament, Mr Marios Katsis took 280 votes. 'PARON' 15 MPs voted. A total of 295 Members voted for the function of the Secretaries. For the post of Secretaries from the first to a power of Parliamentary Group, they received: Mr. Evangelos Liakos 270 votes. "PARON" 25 MPs voted. Mr. Konstantinos Kyranakis 238 votes. 'PARON' 57 MPs voted. Mr Vassiliou 266 votes. 'PARON' 29 MPs voted. Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head 267 votes. 'PARON' 28 MPs voted. For the Secretary's post from the second to force, Mrs Rallia Christidou received 282 votes. 'PARON' voted 13 MPs. For the post of Secretary from the third to the power of Parliamentary Group Mr Apostle Panas received 273 votes. 'PARON' 22 Members voted. Therefore, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the nominated candidates are always elected as candidates for the post of Quaestors and Secretaries, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol, which will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S2-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, please authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S2-commons.u9	The requested authorisation was therefore granted. I would like to make some communications to this House at this point. A letter was sent to the President of the Greek Parliament, dated 18-7-2019, by Mr Christos Gokas, MP of the Change Movement: "Mr President, I hereby declare to you that I am choosing the parliamentary post, resigning any other capacity falling within the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 57 of the Constitution."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S2-commons.u10	There is also a statement by Demetrios Charitou MEP Rodopis to the President of the Greek Parliament, dated 18-7-2019, in accordance with Article 57(1) and (2) of the Constitution: ‘Mr., pursuant to the decision of the Multimember Court of First Instance Rodopi, I was declared a Member of the Rodopi Electoral Region during the elections held on 7 July 2019. In this context, I shall present to you a statement of the choice of a parliamentary office and resignation from other qualities of the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 57 of the Constitution.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S2-commons.u11	There are also the following communications to the House dated 18-7-2019: I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003: 'Priminal Responsibility of Ministers', as is the case, the 7-6-2019 criminal case law concerning the Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos and the criminal case law relating to officials - thirteenthly the number - domestic ministers and you - ten the number - Finance Ministers. On 4-7-2019 a penal case was submitted to the House concerning the former Minister of Commercial Shipping Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis and the Deputy Minister of Commerce, Mr. Nektario Santorinios. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S2-commons.u12	With the consent of the House at 15.03 p.m., the sitting on Saturday 20 July 2019 at 18.00" is closed on the subject of the House's work: reading and discussing the State's Schedule Declarations, in accordance with the special agenda.
